madam president, we have already heard that this is a technical subject, but also a very complex one. the fact is that a compromise has been reached with the council and the commission, and i welcome that compromise. although i'm on the board of envi and i should be more on the side of the environment, we know the times we live in and it's a victory for reason. our reporter kramer has reconciled opposing positions, and environmental protection and all the rest, so a compromise has been reached between economic issues and environmental issues. we need to have an impact assessment by 2020 and see what can be done because we need to take care of the automotive industry as well. as we know and as we have heard here before, cars produce more than half of the co2 in the european union and certainly we need to improve the conditions and we need to improve the environmental impact. it is estimated that this impact, at 147 grams per kilometer, will reduce fuel consumption by 17 percent. i think that's a big goal and i think 2020 is a good goal for now, and i'm also not opposed to considering the post-2020 benchmarks. last week, at the itre and envi joint committee, we adopted a european climate policy for 2030, in which we set high targets, and i'm sure that the production of these cars will fit into those targets. any compromise is good, the transport sector is important and we should not exaggerate at this moment in view of the crisis, although someone said that we should not take advantage of the crisis. also, 25,000 vehicles have been entitled to some relief under this and i think that's quite a good result at this point and we're expecting a second reading.
madam president, in the context of the economic crisis and the weakening of purchasing power, when both producers and consumers are looking more than usual for savings that often go to the detriment of the environment, a well-balanced political message like this is welcome. it takes into account the unquestionable need to limit man's harmful impact on his environment, but the real need for the economic viability of such limitations. the european union must maintain its leadership in the promotion and application of green technologies and its role as a leading world economic power, which is only possible through the strategic thinking offered by this draft legislative resolution. in the context of this discussion, i would point out the possibility of a tax relief already in force in croatia, which is granted for the purchase of light commercial vehicles. the amount of the vat shall be limited to 100% if the vehicle is registered as a commercial vehicle. it is important to emphasise that the implementation of such facilities requires, in addition to vehicle weight, the control of the level of carbon dioxide emissions in order to exploit the full environmental potential of such provisions, in addition to their economic benefits. the amended regulation is a good example of how environmental protection and economic development can be reconciled. in addition, its effective implementation will provide a pathway to help member states that are still above the carbon dioxide emission limit set by the kyoto protocol.
mr. chairman, i want to support this report because i believe it is very important to find solutions to care for the environment and if this technology proves to be safe, by 2020 it could become commercially viable. when there are no other sources, then this technology can be used. so we need to decarbonize the atmosphere. the increase in fossil fuel use and industrial production over the last century has resulted in a huge increase in carbon dioxide concentrations, and we know that by mid-2005 there were only three commercial projects, still in the demonstration phase: projects that link co2 capture and geological disposal. given that almost 80% of the world's energy consumption is related to fossil fuels, it is clear why there is a great interest in this system and the need to reduce the potential co2 emissions in the next 100 years as emission reduction measures or as removal from the atmosphere measures.
mr president, the european parliament fully supports any effort to reduce co2 and other greenhouse gas emissions in conditions of increasingly sensitive climate change. at the same time, i would stress that without the excess emissions of co2 as the greenhouse gas most responsible, there would be no need for expensive storage technologies. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft resolution. it is also noted that the use of renewable energy sources must not and cannot be pushed into the background. member states must remain committed to the objectives of the 2020 strategy, in particular to reducing co2 emissions and increasing the share of renewable energy in gross final consumption. the example of croatia clearly shows that the emphasis on renewable energy sources is paying off, given that the country has reduced its co2 emissions in recent years. the commission notes that the average annual energy consumption in the eu is around eur 10 billion, which is a significant increase compared to the average annual energy consumption in the eu.
mr president, i believe that the resolution has offered good solutions on how to combat the smuggling, trafficking, sale and purchase of protected plant and animal species. in addition to all that is proposed, i would also like to stress the importance of education, both for the local population in poaching countries and in the member states of the european union where consumers of wildlife products are located. the eu's estimated income from the smuggling of endangered species is between 18 and 26 billion euros, while the online trade in products is worth 10 billion dollars a year. in addition to the proposed solutions that i support, i stress the importance of additional anti-campaigns that would put the possession of such products in a negative context. in this way, they no longer portrayed the owner's wealth and prestige but instead his cruelty and ruthlessness. animal fur, which is increasingly being replaced by artificial fur, is a good example. we must continue to promote such trends through coordinated action at european and global level. i believe that this would reduce the demand for these species and, consequently, prevent their extinction.
mr president, depopulation and ageing are the major challenges we face and in the long term they represent the greatest obstacle to economic growth and social development in europe. a hundred years ago, the population of today's eu was 15% of the world's population, today it is only 7%, and by 2050 it is projected to fall to 5%. by 2060, the number of citizens over 65 will have doubled, and the number of young and able-bodied will have decreased significantly. a bold, more determined and effective pro-natal and pro-prevention policy is therefore needed for new growth in europe. in the short term, we also need a more agile immigration policy that will not discriminate against anyone, but will recognize the potential of our immigrant communities and the descendants of europeans in overseas countries who want to immigrate to the eu. as a representative from croatia, i would like to emphasize the role of the croatian diaspora in preserving and realizing the liberal ideals of our people. on this occasion, i appeal to the european institutions, to the member states, to use eu funds, in line with the lisbon strategy, for return programmes for our emigrants and their descendants who would like to return and contribute to europe's economic growth.
mr president, i fully support the proposal to establish the asylum, migration and integration fund, its simplified and improved operating rules, and i hope the adoption of this new financial instrument very soon. our obligation, in pursuing the strategic objectives of the european union, is to accept the principle of solidarity enshrined in article 80 of the treaty, to support the common european asylum system and to facilitate legal migration to the union. in the wake of the lampedusa tragedy, and the greater solidarity that european asylum policy deserves, i cannot help but highlight the strong positive impact that this new financial instrument would have on croatia. the union contribution for 2017 amounts to a total of eur 10000000000, of which eur 500000000 is for the period from 1 january 2017 to 31 december 2018. the timely adoption of the funds in this case is not only an expression of financial necessity but also of genuine solidarity.
mr president, commissioner potočnik, mr winkler, i support your report on smart specialisation and networking of centres of excellence for effective cohesion policy, which gives clear guidelines and encourages regions to develop regional smart specialisation strategies to focus their priorities and potential in the area of research, development and innovation. croatia has around eur 1 billion available for research and development in the next annual financial framework, out of a total of eur 8,3 billion, from the financial envelope. also, about 600 million euros will be earmarked for r&d in other segments, and the partnership agreement is the key to that money. developing a smart specialisation strategy is the most important part of this process. i believe that this report with clear guidelines for the regions, and the completion of the process of adopting the national strategy for smart specialisation, will be a strong incentive and a wind in the sails for croatian counties to adopt their smart specialisation strategies.
mr. president, i support this report in principle because i consider any process that allows lower levels to create their own destiny to be a good one. but to make sure that not everything stays at the initiative level, we must be prepared for effective implementation. are we? as a representative from croatia, i can testify to the poor use of funds available to us as a member state. if the central level is not sufficiently effective in withdrawing incentives, what can we expect from a lower level that does not have such administrative capacity? i also believe that we cannot ask the regions at this point to implement activities to tackle problems such as unemployment, poverty, energy security and demographic change, because many member states, including croatia, are not able to implement them in a quality way. this puts too much on the region's shoulders, rather than ensuring that all regional actors in this process have the capacity to guarantee effective implementation.
mr president, i support this report by mr winkler because we have said many times in this house that more investment in research and development is necessary for a new wave of economic growth, but also that we need to see exactly what will be invested in, to see what are the comparative advantages of each member state, each region and that is why it is good that this report emphasises that each region must develop its own specific strategy. national strategies must also be developed to make more efficient use of the european union's funds. however, i would like to stress and warn that this smart specialisation and the use of the term smart use of funds should not be an alibi for less investment in r & d. we have not yet reached our target of 3% of gdp, we are behind america, behind china, behind japan and that must continue to be our goal.
mr. president, i thank the rapporteur. i am pleased that the report has emphasised several times that the development of a smart specialisation strategy is important not because it is a prerequisite for the use of european funds, but because it ensures long-term and sustainable growth and development for countries or regions. what is important in smart specialisation strategies at the regional level is to identify what are their strengths, what are the potentials that they need to focus on in order to develop them in a qualitative way. but it's important how they're going to identify those potentials, and that's what i particularly like about smart specialization, which means working with all segments of society. local units, together with scientists, together with nonprofits, together with entrepreneurs, are finding out what the best solutions are for their growth and development, and that's what you have to keep in mind.
mr president, the adoption of a new ehealth action plan will ultimately produce undeniable economic and organisational benefits, but health informatisation may have the greatest contribution to make in terms of patient involvement in the treatment and prevention process. however, it should be noted that increased information flow can lead to a compromise of the confidentiality of the doctor-patient relationship, and this should not happen. a number of colleagues on the public health committee, including myself, have pointed out that more attention needs to be paid to regulating the many medical mobile apps. i believe that this is a gray area where there is no uniform practice yet, and the potential benefits and harms can be great. for this reason, i welcome the inclusion of our amendments in this document and hope that the commission will open a wide debate on mobile health apps as soon as possible.
mr president, at a time when information and communication technologies are reaching their peak and becoming an increasingly important part of the daily functioning of modern man and society, it is certainly necessary to include them in the health system and thus make it more accessible and efficient. this approach should reduce costs in the long term and relieve the system of the administrative burden that often slows it down and makes it less efficient. i am pleased that the rapporteur is stressing the importance of maintaining the human component in the health sector, because it is truly irreplaceable. the main concerns raised are the obvious problems in implementing and protecting data security. i believe that we need to take into account the uneven level of technological development of the member states, as well as the differences in the structure and efficiency of national health systems, and adapt this plan to that reality so that even the poorest member states have the opportunity to improve the health care they offer to their citizens.
mr. president, this is a good move, this is a great report and a great idea. but in many european countries, citizens feel that the highest level of corruption is in the health sector. why would you do that? health is and must remain a human right and paying for health is corruption in itself, corruption per se. human rights, you know, they can't be paid for. clearly, it is not the doctors who are to blame, but the system in which only those who can afford it or have access to some technological innovation can be treated. the shameful destruction of parts of the public health system and its privatization by governments and corporations is a shameful example, and there are examples of this in every country, of this basic human right being violated. it's not my europe. in addition to all the useful work we are doing with this document, i expect that this parliament, in its next session, will seriously discuss stopping further privatisation of health and creating the conditions for health to become available to all on equal terms.
mr president, i welcome the report by mrs ayuso. i think the digitization of healthcare has really proven to be a tool that achieves significant savings, but at the same time it allows patients to have faster and more transparent access to data. for example, in croatia, e-prescription systems were introduced in january 2011 and e-prescriptions were introduced later, but then the development of e-health slowed down somewhat from 2012 onwards. i therefore support this commission action plan and this report, and in particular those parts dealing with preventing a further widening of the gap in access to health services among citizens of the european union. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on health and safety at work, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on health and safety at work.
the new ehealth action plan is a quality innovation at eu level. ensuring equal access to healthcare is a matter of concern for all member states. in the context of the crisis, all public services are reduced in the context of fiscal consolidation and are less accessible to all. in the field of health, e-health is one of the solutions, but its implementation requires the digitization of the state and education on the use of information technologies. in addition to digital literacy and broadband access, a higher level of health literacy will enable people living in remote, sparsely populated areas to access accurate information, preventive health measures and medical advice available via the internet, and that is why i support the initiative through this action plan.
mr. president, in supporting the report on the food crisis and fraud in the food chain and its control, i would like to point out the fact that consumer confidence has been particularly damaged by the horse meat scandal. that trust needs to be restored by consistent measures. i welcome the determination of rapporteur de lange in the fight against fraud in the food industry because, although there is a legislative framework at eu level, the food crisis shows that we are facing serious shortcomings in the operational part of law enforcement. until recently, croatia carried out its own control of imported food products at the border crossing. the commission has also received comments from the croatian authorities, which have not provided any evidence that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market. products such as fish, olive oil and milk are listed as products with a high risk of fraud in the industry. as these products are in high demand within the borders of croatia, i strongly support the motion for a resolution to adopt more effective measures to better control and combat fraud in such an important industry.
mr. president, food chain fraud is a problem that we must address with vigour. in addition to damaging the reputation of the whole agri-food sector and causing a growing distrust of the common market, this type of crime is also dangerous for the health of citizens. the economic crisis and the fall in purchasing power, along with increasingly stringent technical requirements on manufacturers that have led to rising production costs, have led to a dramatic increase in fraud. i am absolutely in favour of increasing the scope of unannounced inspections and more rigorously punishing fraudsters including the biggest players in the market, especially in the distribution chain, who are often untouchable because of the collusion with the authorities. in addition to punishing those who cheat, we should appropriately reward those who produce safe and quality food, which is often not competitive because it is mostly small family farms. this would give a further boost to honest producers whose presence in the common market is of the utmost importance to us and restore the shaken confidence of consumers.
mr president, the eu has always emphasised the scope of consumer protection in health care as one of its priority policies. recent food fraud is distorting not only consumer protection but, potentially, consumer health as well. consumers must be sure that what they find on the shelves of our grocery stores actually matches the declaration of content of those products. a considerable amount has been achieved. however, we are still witnessing what some entrepreneurs are capable of doing in order to make large profits. the recent case of the incorrect labelling of animal species is just one example. even though these are usually isolated cases, once the fraud is discovered it has a strong influence on our conscience. our consumers deserve more effective and more extensive control of the market, which would ultimately result in the prevention of such fraud.
mr. president, pork sold as beef, fake olive oil, spoiled meat with fresh declarations. ladies and gentlemen, this is definitely not something we should be discussing in the european parliament in 2014, but unfortunately we have to because consumer confidence in the food industry has never been lower. unlike the us, the eu does not have a universally accepted definition of food fraud, only regulation 178/2002 states that it is forbidden to deceive consumers. that has to change, penalties have to be tightened, and consumer confidence restored. the definition of food fraud must include cases where the quality of the same products differs between the old and the new member states. there must be no first-class citizens or second-class markets in a single europe. i therefore welcome this report and once again call on the european commission to take action against those who gamble with our health for profit.
mr president, labour inspection mechanisms and their proper functioning in practice are important for the protection of workers' rights. the labour inspectorate must be well organised, independent of public services and have sufficient administrative capacity and financial resources to operate, in order to function efficiently. the lack of continuing education and of sufficient staff in labour inspection is a problem in most member states. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of workers from harmful organisms and the prevention of the spread of diseases. since the first day of this year, inspection supervision in the republic of croatia has been in difficulty. the good organisational solution of the separate body of the state inspectorate was abolished and the inspectors were distributed to several ministries. i support this report which asks the state to think strategically about how to improve the efficiency of the labour inspectorate because when you set clear goals and think seriously about the activities that need to be taken, a solution that goes in the direction of wasting resources in multiple ministries would never be implemented.
i support the motion for a resolution tabled by the rapporteur, mr steinruck, on the effective inspection of work. despite the economic crisis, i believe that we must not allow harmful social changes to occur, and therefore we are obliged to act preventively in order to protect vulnerable social groups. labour inspection is an instrument for protecting workers' rights and preventing labour exploitation. it is this initiative that is driving legislative action at eu level to make labour inspection more effective in combating undeclared work, ensuring social protection and job security and, ultimately, providing a stable basis for the functioning of the eu's single market. croatia has reformed its labour inspection system since 1 january this year, with many of the new features corresponding to the proposals of this initiative. inspectors have been given greater powers, and the inspection system will act as a deterrent to law-breaking, not as a repressive apparatus. the reform of the labour inspectorate should achieve greater efficiency and thus reduce the share of the grey economy in the gross domestic product of croatia.
mr. president, as a representative from croatia, where workers are one of the most vulnerable social groups, i can only support the improvement of the efficiency of the labour inspectorate. it is time to improve the legislative framework and thus put an end to non-payment of wages, the addition of paid annual leave and the non-payment of overtime, which has become a practice in croatia. the commission is also proposing to increase the number of inspectorates in the member states. i maintain that excessive taxes are the main reason for the strengthening of the shadow economy, and further expansion of the public sector can only exacerbate this problem because it will undoubtedly lead to an increase in the tax burden in order to support the new massive state apparatus. at the end of the ballad, the inspectors will become an end in themselves, and the employers will be literally driven into the realm of the grey economy. we will thus put young europeans in a position to build careers either in the public sector or in crime, which is leading our countries and this community to a sure doom.
mr president, croatia has felt the weight of the economic crisis and this is something that the croatian authorities and especially the croatian citizens are still struggling with. it has dramatically affected the labour market causing many job losses. in such unstable economic times, businessmen do everything to ensure that their businesses survive. unfortunately, the measures they take often go right over the back of the workers. it is workers who are the most vulnerable group and the target of market exploitation in a crisis. effective labour inspection must therefore not be just a formulation we debate in parliament, but a reality that will protect workers and their rights. only then can we have motivated workers who achieve better results, fair competition in the labour market, real state budgets saved in the shadow economy and, above all, protected particularly vulnerable categories of workers - young people, women, immigrants and low-skilled workers. let us ensure that effective supervision of work ensures their dignity and future.
mr president, in a time of economic crisis, high unemployment and reduced social rights under budgetary cuts, it is important to make the issue of worker protection a priority, inter alia by improving the work of state inspectors in all member states. in this regard, it is important to provide at national level the means for quality training and quality improvement of inspectors in view of the increasingly demanding and specialised job descriptions and adaptation of protection methods to new technologies and working conditions. for example, monitoring the quality of the working conditions of workers in isolated locations and of workers working at home, in particular in relation to the calculation of working time and to the monitoring of work involving the handling of dangerous goods. in order to ensure high unified standards, i support the rapporteur's initiative to establish a european agency for cross-border protection to provide uniform protection criteria regardless of the place of work in all member states in a time of increasing worker mobility.
i support this initiative, mr president, because i believe it will make business better for european employers, make companies more stable in the long term and connect employees through their sphere of interest to the companies they work for, making them more motivated and efficient. i am glad that the rapporteur is emphasising the danger of misuse of this model because it is real. in order to eliminate this risk, employee financial participation models must be fully in line with national legislation and tax rules, based on a voluntary basis and offered to employees with all the necessary information. despite the efforts i believe will be made, we must be aware of the fact that labour relations are regulated differently across the european union and that this model will not be easily applicable in some member states. i also believe that we must absolutely respect the competences of the national states in the sphere of tax policy and that the commission should not have the right to intervene in the taxation of the financial participation of employees.
mr. president, i support the report on social security for all, including the self-employed. the economic and social crisis of recent years has led many citizens to turn to self-employment. in many eu countries, the self-employment institute is not fully recognised in law. therefore, the income of such workers belongs to the grey economy or the workers simply do not enjoy labour rights and social protection. they are not represented by unions and are often subject to overtime. i believe that crisis is the best time to identify the needs of the most vulnerable social groups and to respond accordingly. i welcome the report's efforts to highlight the need for lifelong learning, job creation for young people, protection of the unemployed, protection of women and young families and the importance of combating undeclared work. as a social democrat, i stress the importance of preserving the fundamental values of social europe. the integration of the internal market of the european union must therefore be accompanied by appropriate measures aimed at eliminating the increasing social disparities.
mr president, i have the impression that the rapporteur has a certain empathy for self-employment, considering such work almost exclusively the result of a difficult life situation. i believe that at a time when youth unemployment is on the rise in the eu, self-employment is a decisive and courageous first step in realising the entrepreneurial potential of young europeans. i absolutely understand the need to protect the social rights of the self-employed, but i think we must not fall into the trap of making long-term self-employment an acceptable or even a tempting lifestyle choice. we need to motivate self-employed people to realise their entrepreneurial projects by opening companies and employing others, thereby actively involving them in the financing of the social protection system. i believe we can all agree that social rights for all social groups in the eu must be at a respectable level, but we must always bear in mind that these rights must be funded by someone.
mr. president, self-employment is an effective method of combating rising unemployment. however, regardless of all the positive effects of this method, it is of the utmost importance that this form of employment enjoys a high level of social protection, such as the exercise of social rights based on maternity and paternity, pension and health insurance. member states should therefore encourage unemployed workers to self-employ by strengthening the social elements of this employment instrument and by providing the same level of protection as that enjoyed by employees in the private and public sectors. it would also be advisable to reduce the social benefits of self-employed workers for a limited period of time in order to relieve them of the burden of self-employment. in doing so, the risk of the possibility of false self-employment and potential abuse in this part of the exercise of social rights should be reduced. quality and comprehensive labour and social legislation are prerequisites for economic growth and development throughout the union.
mr president, madam president, you have had a very difficult and challenging task which was not only of a technical nature but also of a political nature. the results achieved are excellent, not only in terms of quantity, as you yourself have said, but also in terms of the energy that the lithuanian presidency has invested in this six-month mandate. you managed to fight against some narrow selfish policies, and from the very beginning you set a very ambitious agenda that related to energy security, to financial stability, to reducing unemployment and to promoting continuous economic growth. i believe you have succeeded in that. i would also like to say that everything started off at a fast pace because, in addition to the budget, lithuania had to deal with numerous and complex files that were left over from the last presidency. the european union has also been active in the field of economic and monetary union, and the european union has been active in the field of economic and monetary union. i also want to say that the lithuanian presidency coincided with the accession of croatia to the european union and you had a very important task to introduce the newest member of the european union and i want to thank you for that excellent cooperation. and finally, it is also very symbolic that after lithuania, greece takes over the presidency, that is, from the very north where you are to the very south the symbol of europe, that is. i am firmly in favour of no difference and no difference between north and south, east and west, no eurozone countries and those outside the eurozone, no schengen countries and those outside the schengen, we want a united europe of solidarity and for that i thank you.
mr president, i would first of all like to congratulate our lithuanian colleagues on a very engaged and efficient, organised presidency. i know how much for a country of a size similar to croatia it is laborious and demanding both in terms of administration and in terms of political goals. as a member of the committee on budgets, i would like to highlight in particular the excellent work and cooperation we have had both on the adoption of the multiannual financial framework and on the adoption of the budget, and a small special part that was not mentioned was the activity relating to the important legislative act on the provision of guarantees to the european investment bank for loans to third countries. i am particularly pleased that you were involved in both the eastern partnership and enlargement, that you did everything you could, and that your presidency for croatia will always be remembered for the speech of the president on 1 july in zagreb and therefore...ačiū, the president's motto, when pasveikinote hrvatsku.
mr president, my assessment is that the lithuanian presidency has been a pragmatic, realistic, effective and ultimately very high-quality and successful presidency. i think we can all agree with that, without too much ado. of course, each of us in our area of activity has had some experience with the lithuanian presidency. as a member of the committee on budgets, but also of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, i would like to highlight in this brief assessment my particular satisfaction with the way the lithuanian presidency has conducted the negotiations on the 2014 budget of the european union, as well as the negotiations on the multiannual financial framework for the next seven-year period. the lithuanian approach was steady, open to compromise, sensitive to the views of the european parliament. in other words, the lithuanian presidency respected the full role of the parliament and was willing to hear what we as directly elected representatives of the citizens had to say at important negotiating moments. i give this particular weight, especially since budget negotiations due to the severe economic crisis were mostly marked by the words 'cuts' and 'cuts'. finally, i feel the need to express my special thanks to mr agimantas rimkunas and mr vytautas leškevičius for the enthusiasm and enormous energy they have put into their work for the benefit of all the citizens of the european union. i hope that greece, which has the honour of being the next to assume this responsible task, will be equally adept at steering the council.
mr president, i also welcome the president-in-office, who has been in charge of the lithuanian presidency since the very first moment in zagreb of croatia's accession to the european union. of course, we all expected that at the end of the lithuanian presidency there might also be an agreement signed with ukraine to confirm those same values in which we all believe and on which we are working together with this agreement. it didn't happen, but not by the mistake of the lithuanian presidency. i would agree with president barros that the vilnius summit has in fact spread to the streets of kiev and that is where these european values have really been demonstrated and proved, where ukrainian citizens have once again confirmed them and thus renewed that spirit. i would like to congratulate the lithuanian presidency once again on this and welcome greece with the same enthusiasm.
mr president, madam president, first of all let me thank you and your lithuanian colleagues for welcoming my country croatia to the european union, which is also the beginning of your presidency. in this way, the national histories of our two countries are linked by a truly great date. i would like to congratulate you on the clear results you have achieved in working towards what you described in your programmes as a credible europe, a europe of growth and openness. among the many achievements, the coordination and articulation of initiatives on further economic integration should be highlighted. the commission also concluded that the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe (cee) and the mediterranean region (mfa) was adequate to address the specific needs of the countries concerned. similarly, the free trade negotiations in the world trade organization have been given a strong impetus. i will also mention the contribution to the enlargement policy, which, in addition to croatia's accession, includes an agreement to open negotiations with serbia and progress in negotiations with montenegro and turkey. while the impressive number of 137 legislative acts serves as a numerical expression of the overall success of your presidency, it is even more important that you have demonstrated that geographically and demographically smaller member states can and should effectively carry out the task of chairing the european union. congratulations again!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i personally believe that you have achieved very significant results during your presidency of the european union. i consider that my country's accession to the european union on 1 july 2013 was one of the most significant events. however, the lithuanian presidency has among its important results achievements in terms of finances. the first clear signs of recovery of the union's economic and financial nature were achieved during the lithuanian presidency. finally, and more importantly, lithuania has shown the dignity of the presidency of the european union by proving that the enlargement of the union is not just a matter of new states or, for example, the enlargement of the euro area, but that it is possible to contribute to the growth of our common european home in general without any cost or particular benefits, but by working for all, which brings about general growth. the first stage of the banking union, the significant enlargement support in south east europe and a host of other results demonstrate that the development of the european union is well represented and guided by a culture that is not a single product but a universal social value.
mr president, this is a very important subject because it has a direct impact on the viability of the common market as the cornerstone of this community. as a representative from croatia, i have an additional reason to welcome this resolution because according to the latest consumer conditions review commission, croatian citizens are among the least protected consumers in the european union. citizens' knowledge of laws protecting consumers in our country has proven to be modest, which places croatia in an alarmingly penultimate place in the european union. the commission has also found that the measures in question are not imputable to the state. in this context, the commission should also take into account the fact that the commission has already adopted a number of measures to ensure that the consumer is protected in the union, including the introduction of a consumer protection clause.
mr president, consumers in a consumer society can be defined as the largest group of people who live under false assumptions: from the false assumption that they eat healthy food to the one that they buy products manufacturered in an environmentally-acceptable manner and humane manufacturing conditions. one of the most frequently encountered false assumptions in europe is that under the same brand name we always buy the same product. this is simply not so. despite high standards prescribed by the eu, products launched on the markets of developed countries, where they are of high quality, are sold under the same brand on the markets of new member states, and especially on the markets of accession countries, but the quality is often not the same. this is true for a range of products, from food and clothes to technical products. the practice should be stopped, as it serves only to help the rich become richer and destroys what is left of domestic production.
written. − article 8 of the protocol on the privileges and immunities of the european union expressly provides that members of the european parliament may not be subject to any form of investigation, detention or judicial proceedings for opinions expressed or votes cast in the performance of their duties. the representatives of lari comi were threatened with legal proceedings for the views expressed in the italian broadcast of 24 january 2013, where she discussed the problems of public procurement and organized crime in relation to the bankruptcy of coopcostruizioni in a debate with antonio ingroi. in this context, there was also a discussion about former ferrara mayor robert soffriti, party colleague of mr ingroe. mr. soffrita feels that this discussion has damaged his reputation and has filed a complaint against representative comma. it should be noted that ms comi participated in the programme as a member of the european parliament to speak about public procurement processes and organised crime, which are her priorities in the european parliament. in that context, it is perfectly legitimate to rely on article 8 of the protocol on parliamentary immunity. i believe that the member was doing her job, that she should not be prosecuted for expressing her political views, and that is why i have supported this motion by the european parliament to defend the immunity of the member of parliament, lara coma.
written. - i voted in favour of the report because i believe there is irrefutable evidence that the italian mep, lara comi, in the controversial programme of last january, made her speech as a representative of this high body of the union, and not as a member of a national party. since article 8 of the protocol on the privileges and immunities of the european union, to which lara comi refers expressly in her request for protection, provides that members of the european parliament may not be subject to any form of investigation, detention or judicial proceedings for expressing opinions or voting in the performance of their duties, i consider it appropriate to protect the immunity of ms comi.
mr president, in my speeches so far, i have consistently stressed the importance of cohesion policy and its key power to launch the european union. especially in the very challenging economic times we're in. the report by mr winkler is an additional instrument which should ensure the success of this policy and i was therefore very happy to support it. each member state of our community is unique in relation to any other, just as each region within each member state is unique in its own way and rich in its own particularities. the particularities in which lies the potential for smart, specialized economic prosperity. this is precisely the point made by mr winkler. it is necessary for regions to recognise the importance of their differences and to focus their energy on their own qualities and potentials, rather than just passively and often quite counterproductively copying the ideas on which the successes of other regions are based. the potential exists, innovative ideas do not, and this report establishes a forward-looking instrument that successfully promotes smart and sustainable development. i'm happy to support him in the hope that he will bring the expected results.
written. - smart specialisation is a positive concept that allows regions to develop in the narrow areas where they are most successful. the report points to the risks of choosing specialisations, but advocates targeted growth through research, development and innovation. i believe that the adoption of a regional strategy for smart specialisation and the regional networking of centres of excellence will ultimately result in economic and social progress. it should be recalled that the target of 3% of eu gdp devoted to r & d has not yet been achieved. nevertheless, the report is extremely positive for croatia as it envisages new ways in which our counties can attract european funds. the eu's multiannual financial plan for investing in r&d in croatia allocates around €1 billion. the report provides for learning mechanisms for the regions, through mutual cooperation, cross-border cooperation and the involvement of social actors in the project design processes that seek to attract funds from the cohesion funds.
written. - the european community, later the european union, was originally created for economic reasons. and this is what must guarantee the sustainability of the union, which is why this kind of networking is an important step towards greater exploitation of potential. to make investments half-way successful, a comprehensive strategy is needed, and policy decisions must be aligned with the local situation. the network shall be capable of operating horizontally and vertically. the smart specialisation strategies will create a framework in which all european regions can make better progress, as a broad-based promotion of disconnected, differently developed areas is often not sustainable. the additional quality of the strategy is that it provides an opportunity for every region, so that the primary focus is not on the richest and most developed european regions. this report, like other legislative acts, serves as a good indicator of the focus of the european institutions on the question of regional progress in research, development and innovation.
written. - i voted for this report because the aims of smart specialisation are very commendable. each region has its own specificities and therefore smart specialisation can be the starting point for all the specificities of certain regions that this institution, like all others, should take into account when developing long-term programmes and plans that can visibly and substantially change the lives of people in different regions. i would also like to note that croatia has a vision of innovation through government and ministry programmes that, in addition to regional development, deal with the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, which the croatian government has included in its development plan. there is also a five-year programme for the sustainable social and economic development of assisted areas which has not been fully implemented since 2009 when it came into force. the differences that should bring us together are certainly some of the most complex political objectives that every country must have as a starting point for developing and improving the quality of life of its citizens and contributing to the development of society, which is ultimately the goal of this institution.
written. − i agree that improving the eu's innovation capacity in a sustainable way is necessary in the context of the recession. for this reason, and with a view to making more efficient use of the structural funds, i support the development of 'smart specialisation strategies' on which to base investment in research, development and innovation. croatia, given the cleanliness and biodiversity of the country, has potential for further growth and development in bio-strategic sectors such as biotechnology, bioenergy, agriculture and water management. the programme's inclusive dimension is of particular importance, whereby the smart specialisation strategy provides opportunities to each region and upgrades regional potential, knowledge and skills. i particularly support the rapporteur's view that the joint cooperation of research and education actors, especially smes, with each other and with the administration is of great importance. i also welcome the idea of interregional cooperation in a way that uses and exchanges knowledge from other regions with the aim of strengthening competitiveness at global level.
written. − i have long argued that the way back to the path of economic growth for the eu lies in the digital economy, which requires investment in research and development. the eu must become a pioneer in technological development to ensure the long-term growth of its economy. so far, efforts to achieve this have been inadequate. the eu invested just over 2% of gdp in research and development in 2011. that's a devastating statistic compared to countries like the united states, japan or china. it is therefore good that we have decided, within the european regional fund, to focus on investments in research and development as growth generators. the commission also found that the union industry was not able to compete with the union industry in the union market. i therefore welcome this report, which insists on making smart specialisation, i.e. identifying the unique characteristics and comparative advantages of each country and region, so that they can be exploited to the full through investment in r & d. i supported this proposal which proposes that for the first time member states should draw up national and regional strategies to be able to use the european regional fund funds to invest in research and development. this will ensure a more efficient and better use of eu funds.
written. − i welcome the smart specialisation strategy because in times of economic, financial and social crisis there is a need for more innovation and for creating sustainable economic growth. in order to ensure the consistent implementation of the strategy, the commission will develop a strategy for the promotion of sustainable development in the regions of croatia, which will be based on the following principles: the smart specialisation strategy is a dynamic and long-term process and requires the close linking of research, education, administration and small business actors as well as other regions to become as competitive as possible on the european and global market. innovation is used as a broad term precisely to ensure that regions base their strategy on the broadest possible concept and not rely solely on high-tech innovation. i support the initiative for a strategy that in croatia can take the form of a national or regional strategic policy framework for research and innovation, which i consider to be extremely necessary in order to reduce unemployment, poverty and the demographic deficit.
written. - i voted for it because i think it's good any process that allows lower levels to create their own destiny. as a representative from croatia, i can unfortunately testify to the poor use of funds available to us as a member state. if the central level is not sufficiently efficient in withdrawing incentives, we cannot expect the lower level to have a higher administrative capacity. i also believe that we cannot ask the regions at this point to implement activities to tackle problems such as unemployment, poverty, energy security and demographic change because many member states, including croatia, are not able to implement them in a quality way. first, we need to ensure that all regional actors in this process reach a capacity that would guarantee effective implementation.
written. − i voted in favour of mr trzaskowski's report because i consider it important to discuss parliamentary procedures, especially those procedures which are necessary for important, long-term political decisions. the increase in the number of member states and the change in the relationship between the council, the commission and parliament caused by turbulent times require parliament's readiness to deal with new, unforeseen situations. i would like to highlight in particular the good amendment of article 81 (1) (1) and (1a). i believe that the amended text contributes to a balanced decision-making process. it is also important to highlight the submission of amendments, which gives everyone the opportunity to propose changes.
written. - i note the importance of the proposal for a suspension clause relating to the approval of international agreements on the part of the parliament which may decide to suspend the approval procedure for a maximum of one year, on a recommendation from the committee responsible. this would allow a period of reflection to avoid a possible rejection of the international agreement in question, and more particularly to recommend to the commission to renegotiate the part of the international agreement which could be the subject of disagreement within parliament as to the approval of the text in question. this is important taking into consideration the fact that international agreements would otherwise be exempt from amendments by reason of the application of article 90, paragraph 7 of the regulation on the inadmissibility of amendments to the actual text of the international agreement in question. the judgment is justified by the fact that the parliament's decision is unconditional in view of the long-term consequences that that decision could have, see, cause, and in particular because a negotiated agreement cannot be modified unilaterally.
written. - i voted in favour of the report by my former colleague, mr rafal trzaskowski, setting out the way in which the european parliament gives its consent in the procedures provided for in the treaties. the treaty of lisbon has significantly extended the scope of the assent procedure (formerly known as the 'acceptance procedure'). the chairman of the conference of committee chairs, klaus heiner lehne, pointed out in his letter of 9 december 2011 that the practice of the consent procedure varies considerably between parliamentary committees. in order to harmonise the committee's procedural practice, it was necessary to amend article 81 of parliament's rules of procedure, which governs the consent procedure, from a technical point of view. i consider that this report proposes to amend rule 81 of parliament's rules of procedure in a way that successfully regulates the issues of recitals, amendments and voting and clarifies the consent procedure. this will contribute to a more efficient and transparent working practice of the european parliament.
written. − i have supported this proposal for an amendment to the voting rules and the content of the report on the european parliament's consent procedure. one of the significant changes is the explicit clarification and suggestion that the plenary vote on giving consent rather than on the recommendations of the competent rapporteur of the parliamentary committee, as there have been cases where the practice of voting on a recommendation has led to confusion. thus, irrespective of the recommendation of the competent parliamentary committee, parliament votes on whether or not to give its consent. such clarifications of the voting rules are important to reduce the possibility of double interpretation in the future.
written. - this is a very high-quality report, which refers to rule 81 of the rules of procedure of the european parliament on the consent procedure, more specifically to the shortcomings of that rule, which in practice are manifested by the frequent abuse of the consent procedure. the abuse is that political statements and recommendations are added to the committee procedure and voted on separately from the procedure itself, which in practice leads to a number of complications as parliament's consent must be given by a positive act, not by an act expressly contradicting a recommendation. by recommending that no recitals be allowed in the consent procedure, but that the committee responsible be allowed to accompany its recommendation in plenary by a non-legislative resolution, the rapporteur has struck an excellent balance between the legislative and pragmatic role of parliament in the procedure. that's why i voted yes.
mr president, i support the report by mr krahmer on the regulation to determine ways of achieving the 2020 target of reducing co2 emissions from new light commercial vehicles. these vehicles emit 13,5% of the total co2 emissions in the european union and the proposals made contribute to the achievement of the set greenhouse gas reduction targets of 60% by 2050 and 2020 respectively. we had in croatia in 2008 133 500 light commercial vehicles, and last year there were just over 5 000 newly registered. the energy efficiency report for trucks and light commercial vehicles shows a significant increase in energy efficiency in that sector. the report sets long-term targets for 2020 of 147 g co2 emissions, which will ensure environmental objectives and stability for companies that need time to develop new technologies. i also think it's a very good system of so-called super credits for the production of vehicles with extremely low emissions below 50 g co2.
written. − environmental protection is one of the broadest areas of the eu2020 strategy. it is necessary to set the guidelines early enough that will lead us in the future to the desired progress. the eu2020 joint strategy of all member states sets a clear target of reducing co2 emissions from new light commercial vehicles to 147 g/km by 2020. more ambitious co2 reduction targets are feasible, but it is important to steer manufacturers in the right direction to encourage investment in green technologies without compromising competitiveness. i would also like to look at the positive example of croatia. the commission notes that the tax exemption for the use of electric cars is not a tax exemption for the use of electric cars. the environmental tax is calculated on the basis of the purchase value of the vehicle and the co2 emissions, which means that cars emitting less than 120 grams of co2 per kilometre are cheaper, those emitting between 120 and 130 grams per kilometre remain at the same or slightly lower price, and those with co2 emissions above 130 grams per kilometre are significantly more expensive. in conclusion, i would like to point out that setting co2 reduction targets encourages european car manufacturers to innovate technologically, thus not only improving the economy but also saving the environment. this regulation improves the quality of life of citizens, but also gives the automotive industry an incentive to look for new ways to reduce emissions.
written. − i supported the report and welcome the efforts of the rapporteur and all those who have sought to find a compromise solution to the environmental and economic challenges. this solution represents the reality and consistency of our policies. it suggests that europe will maintain its leadership in the production of environmentally-friendly vehicles, sticking to the target set in 2011. i believe that all those who follow european trends in the field of ecology, and especially those who advocate reducing co2 emissions, have reason to be pleased. while this regulation regulates the production of vehicles which are in practice used exclusively for economic purposes, the trend and the drive to further tighten the criteria for the production of vehicles in terms of exhaust gas controls will certainly carry over to the regulation of all other forms of passenger vehicles. in the short term, an increase in costs may be frowned upon by some, but in the long term, this is a win-win situation. in addition to being environmentally friendly, this also saves fuel, which i believe is a happy solution for every car user.
written. − this report confirms the target of 147 g co2/km from light commercial vehicles, defined as early as 2011, to reduce co2 emissions from new light commercial vehicles by 2020. it's a good thing we didn't change the target under pressure from both the reduction and the increase sides. it is important for manufacturers to have stable targets in order to maintain their competitiveness and to be able to adapt to the targets set in a timely manner. too frequent changes would be bad for the automotive industry because it takes time to adjust to new standards. in particular, i support the part of the report that recommends incentives for manufacturers producing a light commercial vehicle with specific co2 emissions below 50 g co2/km, as well as the part that would be supported through incentives and eco-innovation. for all these reasons, i voted in favour of this report, bearing in mind the climate challenges we face, which require a long-term development strategy that is economically sustainable, while minimising the environmental impact.
written. − i regard this compromise as a victory for common sense and congratulate the rapporteur on the excellent balance between the needs of the environment and the needs of the producer he has achieved in his report. i also commend the efforts of the rapporteur towards securing the long-term target of 147 g co2/km, which should apply by 2020, while underlining the need to protect manufacturers who consider that a change to the mentioned emissions target agreed only two years ago would significantly undermine the legitimate need for safety. the commission therefore concluded that the measures in force were in line with the findings of the investigation. the most positive part of the report is the rapporteur's effort to recognise the disproportionate impact of compliance with certain targets on small manufacturers and his recommendation that manufacturers responsible for the production of less than 1 000 new light commercial vehicles be excluded from the scope of the emission reduction target and the payment of the excess emissions premium. i consider the report entirely positive and i voted in favour.
mr president, the european union is basically a market of 500 million consumers. consumer rights must therefore be considered as one of the foundations of the union. the aim of this regulation is to increase the level of consumer protection which will ultimately contribute to increased consumption and economic growth. the draft programme provides for a number of specific quality measures. the improvement of the rapex alert system is crucial as it has proven to be effective. i believe that european and national consumer associations should continue to be given material support, as they have in some cases shown themselves to be more effective than the official bodies. i also support increasing funding for european consumer centres as a venue for the resolution of cross-border disputes. in addition to information, consumers have a right to equality, and i must stress that our work on this issue will not be complete until every product is of the same quality in all the countries of the union.
mr president, the economic crisis which has hit almost all the member states of the european union has brought to our attention a number of shortcomings which still plague our attempt to create a single market which will be both fully dynamic and fully efficient. the commission has also found that the product concerned is not in conformity with the essential requirements set out in the annex to implementing regulation (eu) no 540/2012. i am therefore very pleased to support this report because i believe that it will contribute not only to strengthening consumer rights but also to restoring greater confidence in the functionality and operation of the european single market. in essence, this report is an instrument that at the same time seeks to address some of the obvious shortcomings in the functioning of our market model, but it is also a mechanism that seeks to put each consumer and his individual rights at the centre. that's commendable and that's good. in fact, as consumption accounts for almost 56% of europe's gross domestic product, it is our duty and obligation to continually empower consumers. just another reservation, after all. in budgetary terms, the multiannual consumer programme is relatively modest and it is certainly necessary to ensure that the funds allocated to it are spent in the most efficient way. despite this reservation, as i said, i support the report.
mr president, i welcome this proposal as it sets a strategic framework for the financing of consumer policy over the next six years, enables consumers to better protect their rights, and informs them of the possibilities and ways of protecting them. they also take advantage of the single market. the successful functioning of the single market will increase consumer confidence in cross-border transactions and will have a positive impact on competition and benefit all citizens of the european union, including croatia, which has only just begun to face the challenges and benefits of such a market. consumers must have confidence in the quality of goods and services on the eu market, but also in the supervision of the market itself. however, the proposed budget of only eur 197 million is quite modest and we should consider increasing it if we really want to implement the objectives set out in this programme.
mr president, i support this report, aware of course of the importance of consumption as a share of the total gdp of the european union. so our citizens' consumption accounts for almost 56% of the eu's gdp. however, according to eurobarometer data, only 50% of our citizens feel well informed about their consumer rights, or that they are sufficiently protected in this respect. it is therefore extremely important that legislation like this also improve this, that it also improves the information of our citizens, although i agree with the rapporteur that it is questionable to what extent this budget of only eur 189 million will enable the european commission to implement adequately the programme it has set out to implement. in any case, i support this report for the consumer protection programme until 2020.
mr president, i support the report by our colleague mr rochefort and thank him for his efforts in this very programme for consumers in the period 2014-2020 and i appreciate the assessment made in his introductory speech by commissioner mimica, who is also responsible for the implementation of this programme, which has at its disposal eur 189 million over the next seven years. consumers in the european union contribute as much as 57% of the total gross domestic product. this speaks volumes about the importance of consumers making informed decisions and this programme therefore places emphasis on consumer protection, consumer information and education, consumer rights and legal protection and, most importantly, the exercise of rights. i think it is particularly important that consumer organisations at national level are helped at european level and that attention is paid to consumer protection on the internet.
written. − security and protection of the economic interests of consumers is the main objective of the consumer programme 2014 2020. the commission has also taken into account the fact that the union's financial interests are closely linked to the interests of the union as a whole. particular attention is paid to the importance of monitoring through eu systems such as rapex, the rapid exchange of official information on measures and actions concerning non-food products posing a serious risk to the health and safety of consumers. the information and education measure proposes to develop a database to monitor consumer rights violations in specific markets, allowing for the exchange of knowledge, experience and the prevention of repetition of infringements. the programme's budget is eur 189 million over 7 years, or eur 0,05 per consumer per year, and is therefore carefully targeted, giving priority to consumer safety. the obligation of the republic of croatia as a member state is to ensure the safety of products placed on the croatian market as well as products entering the eu common market from third countries. in 2012, the state inspectorate's economic inspectors identified 26,967 violations of regulations, which shows the importance of intensively working on consumer protection using various measures, which this program helps and i support.
written. − i supported the consumer programme 2014-2020 because i believe it represents and reflects continuity in the provision of support to consumer protection systems. the commission has also taken steps to ensure that the rules on the protection of consumers are applied in all member states. i believe that the establishment of a european consumer centre in croatia will contribute even more to this and i therefore support the increase in funds for the functioning of the same throughout europe. many international studies show that european consumers are still exposed to unequal treatment in a market that should be uniform. many products, especially those of multinational companies, remain of inferior quality in most of the new member states, including croatia. i appeal to the european commission to put an end to this double treatment of our fellow citizens by means of the existing means and their modernisation. i also support the other proposed improvements, particularly in the segment concerning better consumer information and education systems. without consumers being informed of their rights, it's going to be hard to get them to trust the system that we're trying to fix here.
written. - i support the report by mr rocherfort which seeks to ensure a high level of protection and better enforcement of eu consumer rights. i agree with the rapporteur that by defining four important objectives, he attaches particular importance to product safety. the increasing number of reports on dangerous consumer goods is a cause for concern and we need to make market surveillance more effective. the rapporteur particularly emphasises the importance of transparency and information and has identified as one of the objectives the support of consumer associations at union level, as they play an important role in the dissemination of information and the enforcement of consumer rights. in croatia, consumer counselling has been carried out continuously since 2005. over the years, consumers have recognised counselling centres as places to go to for information about their rights or to resolve cases of infringement. the ministry of economic affairs has signed contracts with the aim of implementing project activities with consumer protection consultancies throughout croatia. the ministry of finance has also recently signed contracts with associations for 'consumer information and education' projects in the area of banking and financial services and electronic communications services. in conclusion, i would like to express once again my support for this programme and express my hope that it will achieve its stated objectives within the timeframe envisaged.
written. − european citizens, with personal consumption accounting for 56% of eu gdp, as consumers, are key to stimulating economic growth. according to a 2011 eurobarometer survey, only 50% of european citizens feel safe, informed and protected as consumers. we must insist on consumer protection and information, as well as on improving consumer rights and on better enforcement of those rights. i agree with the rapporteur that it is questionable whether the budget of eur 189 million for the next seven years is sufficient to implement the commission's programme adequately. that's less than 0.05 cents per citizen for the purpose of protecting consumer rights. i particularly support the rapporteur's view that consumer information programmes should be financed through the work of associations. for all of the above, i voted in favour of this report and the consumer programme 2014 2020. this type of funding will certainly benefit croatia, whose citizens have yet to become familiar with all the rights they have acquired as eu citizens.
written. − i voted in favour because as a representative from croatia i have an additional reason to welcome this resolution, given that according to the commission's latest consumer review, croatian citizens are among the least protected consumers in the eu. i strongly support the parts of the report that call for effective market surveillance, improved scientific aspects in consumer advice, cross-border price comparison and generally increased consumer awareness. citizens' knowledge of laws protecting consumers in our country has proven to be modest, which places croatia in an alarmingly penultimate place in the eu. the commission also found that the average price of the product concerned in the union market was lower than the average price of the product concerned in the union.
written. - i supported this report because i believe it is important to align parliament's powers with the achievements of the lisbon treaty. the european parliament, as the representative body of the citizens, must be involved in the decision-making processes that concern all europeans, because only as the highest democratic model and participant in all political changes can we have legitimacy before the citizens and build their trust in the european institutions. since this resolution allows for a better and more democratic procedure for deciding on tariff quotas, i voted in favour.
written. - i support the report on the adaptation of the existing regulation (ec) no 774/94 to the new provisions of articles 290 and 291 of the treaty of lisbon, which delegate part of the power to the european commission with a view to a more efficient system of control of the tariff quotas for the products in question. the additional regulation of imports of those products is of particular importance for croatia in view of the current trends indicating a strong increase in imports after accession to the eu. the commission has also taken into account the fact that the union market is still characterised by a high level of imports of fresh pigmeat and beef from third countries. the difficult economic situation and poor competition are some of the problems faced by breeders at european level. it is therefore necessary to adopt medium and long-term objectives and a set of intervention measures to stimulate the production of european producers and to facilitate the placing of their products on the market. the adaptation of the existing regulations relating to the community tariff quota is one of the measures that can contribute to this.
written. − i have supported the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 774/94 opening and providing for the administration of certain community tariff quotas for high-quality beef and veal, pigmeat, poultrymeat, wheat and meslin, meslin, soya beans and other residues. the amendments introduced by the rapporteur are mainly technical adaptations and reflect the changes introduced by commission directives omnibus 1 and 2 implementing the post-lisbon treaty changes to the way decisions are taken in the eu relating to trade policy.
written. − this legal question, proposed by mr moreirae as rapporteur, concerns a proposal from the european parliament and the council amending the council regulation which, by means of amendments and modifications, allows the administration to introduce certain community tariff quotas for high-quality beef and veal and for pigmeat, meat, poultry, wheat and sorghum, molluscs, seedlings and other residues. i welcome the proposal that the commission must ensure that all consultations with national experts in the framework of its work on the preparation and implementation of delegated acts are fully informed and documented. the commission should also be able to use the information provided by the member states to assess the effectiveness of the union's action in this area. the delegation of power shall be tacitly extended for periods of an identical duration, unless the european parliament or the council opposes such extension not later than three months before the end of each period. i believe that this proposal simplifies procedures and preserves transparency. the trade interests of each country are different, croatia has different strengths and weaknesses than other members and i hope that in the future there will be no overlap of interests between stronger and weaker economies where in most cases the interest is more harmful to the weaker economies.
written. − i voted in favour because i regard the report as a positive technical adjustment which takes account of the usual understanding of the comitology procedure after the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon and which tends to ensure that the supervision of the implementation of the acts necessary to administer the quotas for the products in question remains the responsibility of the committee on international trade.
written. − i fully supported this legislative resolution, in particular in terms of involving the european parliament in the process of negotiating delegated acts as well as limiting the delegation of powers to the commission to a period of five years, with the possibility of extension for an equal period. i consider it necessary to ensure a modified application of the written procedure by inserting a provision relating to the procedure in the board in each of the amended regulations which are the subject of this point of law and which confer powers on the commission, taking into account that the same regulations refer to the single market organisation regulation. the above is of particular importance as the basic acts for future implementing acts will be three amended regulations instead of a single regulation and the same right of review and control will remain within the remit of the committee on international trade instead of the committee on agriculture. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the measures in question are imputable to the state.
written. − i support the adaptation of the legislative provisions which came into force with the adoption of the treaty of lisbon, the content of which further regulates the issue of imports of agricultural products from turkey. i particularly support the emphasis on olive oil in the context of the total imports of agricultural products from turkey, given that the olive sector is one of the most import-sensitive agricultural sectors. although the european union is a world leader in quality and production and a pioneer in new production trends, it is often unable to compete with cheaper imported oils in terms of price and quantity. and the quality of croatian olive oil has been recognized many times by various awards at the global level. however, excellent quality is often not a guarantee of placement, and croatian producers are already facing numerous difficulties caused by the import of olive oil at a much cheaper price, which is sometimes marketed as domestic. this is why i support the adjustment of the regulation in this area and call on the commission to adopt additional control mechanisms that would put the emphasis on quality, but also on the preservation of european production.
written. - i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulations (ec) no 2008/97, (ec) no 779/98 and (ec) no 1506/98 concerning imports of olive oil and other agricultural products from turkey, as regards the delegated and implementing powers conferred on the commission. the amendments introduced are mainly technical adaptations following the introduction of the omnibus 1 and 2 directives, which regulate new trade policy decision-making procedures, reflecting the changes that have occurred since the treaty of lisbon.
written. - the european union has long been confronted with the problem of the democratic deficit and democratic legitimacy, which has been particularly visible since the maastricht treaty. article 290 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union provides that the power to adopt non-legislative acts is to be delegated to the commission by means of a legislative act in order to supplement or amend elements of a legislative act. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 concerning the amendments to the list of third countries referred to in article 3 (1) of regulation (eu) no 1308/2013 and the list of third countries referred to in article 3 (2) of regulation (eu) no 1370/2013. in that process, the commission should cooperate with both national experts and the european parliament, providing it with the conditions for monitoring such delegated acts. since the realisation of democratic legitimacy should be one of the fundamental principles of the european union, the moment is right for the written word of the lisbon treaty to come to life. however, great care should be taken when delegating authority, as the oversight and transparency of these procedures are questionable. croatia also has constitutional provisions that allow the executive branch to enact certain acts in certain cases. the problem of legislative delegation is a big one, since the mechanisms for controlling such acts are rather weak. the same problem is facing a community like the european union.
written. − i support this proposal because it introduces greater control by parliament over the adoption of delegated acts by the commission by extending the deadline for objection and limiting the duration of the powers given to the commission. what i want to stress on this occasion is that we must do everything we can to protect european products, and thus producers and jobs. i will always defend the principle of free markets and healthy competition, but i believe that the increasing technical demands placed on european producers are undoubtedly leading to a decline in our competitiveness vis-à-vis countries that do not apply such high production standards. it is precisely because of imports from third countries that i believe we must work to protect our products with designations of origin and geographical origin in order to offer european customers the widest possible range of high quality and recognisable european products. i therefore really hope that the registration procedure for istrian olive oil will be conducted in the european spirit and bring another high-quality protected european product to shelves across europe.
written. − aromatised wine products play a very important role for producers and represent a significant share of the eu wine sector. i support the objectives pursued by this regulation, primarily in terms of reforming the wine sector, regulating aromatised wine products and raising awareness of the quality of those products. as i come from croatia, which has had a lot of problems lately with the protection of domestic products, i am very pleased that one of the objectives of the project is to establish a criterion for the recognition of geographical origin. in accordance with the existing rules on wine products, the rapporteur supports the commission's intentions and objectives that processed products must also respect geographical origin in the legislative framework. the commission has also been asked to submit a proposal for a regulation on the application of the principle of proportionality to the principle of equal treatment for men and women. while the rapporteur agrees that the text should be aligned with its legal basis, he has amended it to limit the powers to a certain period of time. but i think that more room for decision should be left to the other institutions of the european union.
written. the european union produces around 90% of the world's aromatic wines, including various types of vermouth, sangria and samoborski bermet. in numbers, that's about three million hectoliters a year. the current legislative framework has been in place since the 1990s and needs to be updated to take account of technological progress, market developments and the increasing globalisation of trade. this proposal lays down rules for the definition, description, presentation and labelling of aromatised wine products and lays down criteria for determining their geographical origin. the scope of the previous directive will not be changed, but its provisions will be clarified and simplified, which should ultimately have a positive effect on this wine sector. croatia, like some other member states, has had negative experiences with the protection of its traditional wines and any legislative proposal that will reduce legal uncertainty is welcome. the rules should reflect the situation on the ground and not go against centuries of practices and products.
written. - i support the amendments relating to the need for clear checks and controls to be carried out on all food products that may affect human health. therefore, among other things, care should be taken to ensure that the correct labelling, taking into account, for example, the possible addition of chemical substances, or the organic production label, accurately describes the essential characteristics of a particular product in order to protect the health and interests of consumers who need to know what they are buying, on the one hand, and of those who invest significant resources in organic production, on the other hand, in order to enable them to be properly placed on the market with a specially labelled product that would be labelled as an organic product. i consider it necessary to point out that in croatia there is an example of aromatised wine bermet which contains 16.5% alcohol, is based on wine with added aromas of plants and wormwood with horn, dried fruit such as figs, and citrus peel. therefore, it is impossible to characterise aromatised wine as a wine-based aromatised drink because aromatised wine actually has a multitude of additives and belongs to the category of special wines.
written. − i support this report because i believe that the growing expectations of consumers and the development of the market for aromatised wine products require harmonisation of the legal regulation at european union level. it is very important to take into account the traditional production methods specific to certain geographical areas and their protection. thus, among croatian aromatised wines, the quality and production method of samobor bermut and vermouth stand out. clear rules and quality control in the production of aromatised wines must exist in order to provide consumers throughout europe with accurate information and thus give confidence to the aromatised wine market. i would also like to take advantage of this debate to express my concern about the difficulties that croatia has experienced since joining the eu in protecting the geographical origin of special wines from the region of peshek and terran from croatia, despite numerous historical and technological arguments that these are indigenous croatian products. i hereby express my hope that the european commission will be a successful mediator between member states in potential conflicts in the future, related to aromatised wines, but also all the other wines we produce.
written. - i support the report by mr bartolozzi on the need to define, describe, present, label and protect the geographical indication of aromatised wine products. the production of aromatised wines is important for producers and consumers and accounts for a significant share of the wine sector in the european union. the commission has also taken note of the fact that the commission has not yet adopted a decision on the application of the principle of equal treatment for men and women in the field of employment. it will also contribute to better market regulation and consumer confidence in accurate information, and ultimately to product competitiveness in the european single market. i would like to emphasise that i come from a country with a long tradition of wine production and to recall the particular difficulties that croatia experienced when joining the eu in terms of protecting the geographical origin of certain wine varieties, namely, the 'peshek' and 'teran'. i expect these issues to be resolved as soon as possible in dialogue with the european commission, slovenia and italy.
written. − as a representative of a country with a long tradition in wine production, i support the introduction of a proper quality policy with clear conditions for the production of aromatised wines. however, i consider that the homonymy provisions in this proposal are not sufficiently clear and leave too much room for partial interpretation. the vaguely defined 'partially homonymous label' will be easy to manipulate and i believe that the proposal should have defined such a label much more specifically. the criteria for the protection of such products are also not sufficiently clear and precise, which leaves considerable room for manipulation. i am speaking as the croatian mep, concerned that such vague wording could be detrimental to the 'weaker' parties in the product protection procedure, in which croatia as the newest member is in a particularly unequal position as already shown by the cases of pedestrian and off-road vehicles. that's why i voted against this motion.
the commission has also taken note of the fact that the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a regulation on the application of the principle of equal treatment for men and women in the field of employment, vocational training and promotion, and working conditions. the development of ccs technology is emerging as a key driver in the fight against climate change, but despite all the efforts of the european union, it has not yet fully taken hold in the member states. many of the ccs projects are in preparation and it is a pity that the statistics of the zero association, whose data the european commission refers to in its report, did not take one positive example, from croatia for example, and that is the work of our oil company ina, which in 2012 invested €68.5 million in ccs projects near zagreb. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's 2030 climate and energy strategy, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's 2030 climate and energy strategy.
written. − environmental protection is one of the broadest areas of the eu 2020 strategy. it is necessary to set the guidelines early enough that will lead us in the future to the desired progress. the eu 2020 joint strategy of all member states sets a clear target of reducing co2 emissions from new light commercial vehicles to 147 g/km by 2020. more ambitious co2 reduction targets are feasible, but it is important to steer manufacturers in the right direction to encourage investment in green technologies without compromising competitiveness. i would also like to look at the positive example of croatia. the commission notes that the tax exemption for the use of electric cars is not a tax exemption for the use of electric cars. the environmental tax is calculated on the basis of the purchase value of the vehicle and the co2 emissions, which means that cars emitting less than 120 grams of co2 per kilometre are cheaper, those emitting between 120 and 130 grams per kilometre remain at the same or slightly lower price, and those with co2 emissions above 130 grams per kilometre are significantly more expensive. in conclusion, i would like to point out that setting co2 reduction targets encourages european car manufacturers to innovate technologically, thus not only improving the economy but also saving the environment. this regulation improves the quality of life of citizens, but also provides an incentive for the automotive industry to seek new ways to reduce emissions.
written. - the environmental problem of waste management of co2 is one of the biggest problems of our time, the cause of human health problems, the extinction of animal and plant species, and the cause of global warming. fossil fuels will still provide 75% of the world's energy by 2030, but we need to ensure that this carbon is properly stored to meet the long-term goal of reducing co2 use by 20% by 2050. carbon capture and storage is an important environmental factor because by reducing its share of emissions, it can keep the global temperature rise to 2 degrees celsius, which is crucial in an age of global warming. in addition, carbon capture and storage should be part of a strategy to develop renewable energy sources in the transition to low-carbon production. however, the problem is the financing of the necessary installations and the development of a european map for the construction of installations to store co2, which all eu citizens, as well as our non-member partner countries, who have the same problem of using fossil fuels in industry, should insist on. it's the responsibility of all of us to make the world a better place.
written. - i supported this report. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. in particular, i welcome the proposal to the commission to consider establishing a european investment fund for industrial innovation to stimulate the development of innovative technologies that are good for the environment, including leading-edge projects related to carbon capture and storage technology, other innovative low-carbon technologies and measures to reduce co2 emissions from energy-intensive industries and their processes. i also agree with the rapporteur that the use of carbon capture and storage technologies is a competence of the member states and they should decide for themselves whether to include such technologies in their national co2 reduction strategies or whether the targets will be achieved by direct emission reductions.
written. − i consider co2 storage to be a highly positive practice and an advanced technology that can significantly reduce co2 emissions from industrial sources and fossil fuel power plants. i support the efforts of the rapporteur in calling on the commission to take into account parliament's proposal to prepare a legislative framework that would ask each member state to develop a low-carbon strategy by 2050. i also support the rapporteur's proposal that the national plans for the strategy be updated every five years. i agree with the rapporteur's finding that member states have a key role to play in ensuring a transparent flow of revenue, as this supports the construction and operation of flagship projects and allows for return on investment. as co2 storage is a problem that causes a lot of controversy in the member states of the union, i consider the compromise reached in the committee on co2 storage to be positive and balanced, as it emphasises that it is the sovereign decision of each member state of the union whether or not to continue to develop storage practices, while adhering to the principle that support for storage must not lead to further increases in the eu budget. that's why i voted yes.
mr president, health systems in the member states of the european union are under great budgetary pressure and need to respond to the challenges of a society in which the population is rapidly ageing and in which citizens' expectations in terms of universal healthcare and patients and all people are very high. in this sense, the e-health market has great economic potential, as evidenced by the data that telemedicine has experienced in the past few years, with an expansion expected to exceed $27 billion by 2016. in operational terms, it is important that ehealth in this 2012-2020 programme ensures several objectives, namely firstly interoperability at legal, organisational, technical and semantic levels, and to support research, development, innovation and well-being in health to use adequate tools and services for patients. in this respect, significant progress and savings have been achieved in croatia in the past period by using ehealth.
written. − informatisation as such has its advantages, but depending on the country in which it is applied, there are of course also disadvantages, often caused by budgetary constraints. i think that there needs to be a lot of attention to protecting user data because of the increasing cybercrime that's happening to all systems, even the most expensive and advanced ones. identity theft and online fraud have become our daily routine and therefore, while fully supporting the computerization of healthcare as well as all other systems, i emphasize three most important points: 1. ensuring sufficient budgetary resources; 2. a security policy that will improve security measures to protect against cybercrime; and 3. the possibility of easier mobility of citizens between member states and the possibility of ensuring citizens, without further complicating the healthcare system of citizens of the european union by national laws and regulations. mobility is one of the fundamental ideas of the union itself.
written. − i welcome the adoption of the report on the ehealth action plan 2012-2020 which seeks to improve the quality and effectiveness of the health system through innovative healthcare for the 21st century. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's health policy and to monitor the implementation of the union's health policy. the funding of the connecting europe programme under the horizon 2020 programme for the development of broadband networks and digital services has unfortunately remained without significant financial support. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and regulations. i would point out that croatia is among the most advanced countries in the field of e-health, namely among 25 in the world. the introduction of ehealth has led to significant savings, reduced waiting lists to an acceptable level and improved the quality of healthcare services. i agree with the commission and the committee of the regions that the long-term benefits of ehealth will only be felt if these solutions are implemented in a non-fragmented and uniform manner, and therefore i support the ehealth action plan 2012 2020.
written. − population ageing is causing a number of socioeconomic problems, one of which is the increased burden on national health systems. and i see one of the answers to this challenge as the development of e-health. the informationisation of health systems has proven to be a tool that achieves significant savings for member states, while at the same time reducing waiting lists and allowing patients faster access to data. i voted for this report. i would like to highlight in particular the parts of the report that deal with preventing the gap in access to health services from widening further. if we are to step up ehealth projects across the eu, we must simultaneously work on extending access to broadband services in more remote areas and invest in the technological education of our citizens. we need to provide all eu citizens with equal access to new, innovative ehealth in order to avoid further increasing inequalities within the eu. the commission should also be able to use the information provided by the member states to support the implementation of the ehealth strategy.
written. − i welcome the ehealth action plan 2012-2020 which, by adopting new measures, makes a major contribution to improving access to health services, reducing health costs and ensuring equality for citizens within croatia and ultimately within the european union. the economic crisis has left the health care system in a very bad shape and we are witnessing painful cuts in health care, which is a basic human right. for this reason, i am positive about the ehealth action plan because it represents a great potential for european and croatian health, which is currently in a very difficult situation. implementing such systems in croatia requires the development of new skills in computer literate patients, as well as in healthcare professionals. european funds are being placed there as a real source of funding for e-health that will further burden the state budget without closing public hospitals, which is unfortunately the case today in croatia. this is a good programme, which can show in a very visible way how to overcome the cultural differences in health protection that exist in the eu member states. i'm here to emphasize the need for security, data protection, confidentiality, privacy protection, and of course, shared responsibility to make sure that patients feel safe and secure.
written. − despite the crisis, the market potential of ehealth is large. health systems in the eu are under pressure from severe budgetary constraints and in the heat of the crisis need to find ways to respond effectively to problems such as the ageing of the population and the mobility of patients and health professionals. i supported the report in its entirety and regarded as the most positive part of the action plan the one that refers to measures that have the potential to improve access to health services, reduce health costs and ensure greater equality among european citizens. i particularly welcome the provision which refers to the possibility of ehealth applications which allow for the decentralisation of health policies at regional and local level and the adaptation of health policy to local needs and diversity, as it respects the principle of subsidiarity. as a representative from croatia, a member state with a low rate of eu funding uptake, i am particularly interested in the part of the report that encourages local and regional public administrations to use eu structural funds effectively to fund ehealth and health literacy, without reducing funding for traditional healthcare services.
mr president, i supported the proposal to make consumer protection and health one of the european union's priority policies. recent food fraud is undermining both their security and potentially their health. consumers must be sure that what they find on our store shelves really does match the description of those products on their declarations. only with strong controls, including the prevention of such fraud and the risk of misleading consumers, can our food market be called safe, unique and of high quality. not only do our consumers deserve it, but all those honest producers who would never think of such a scam.
mr president, in recent years we have witnessed a number of fraudulent practices in the food industry, including the recent horse meat scandal, which has clearly shown that there is a structural and organisational problem in the food industry within the european union. the importance of controls should be emphasised, especially as there is a high concentration of trade in goods, services and food products within and outside the european union. according to a survey by a slovak consumer association, lower-quality products are more likely to be found on store shelves in the so-called "new" members of the european union, and lower-quality products end up in eastern countries, which is unacceptable. i fully agree that product control is extremely important because, while public health is of the highest order, consumer protection must not be compromised at any time. i believe that if the member states decide to introduce stricter control measures on food products, the confidence of all citizens of the european union, including the citizens of croatia, will increase. the same control mechanisms should therefore be established at eu level.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment is a very important one. the safety of foodstuffs, their origin, correctly indicated composition and shelf life, quantitative studies, allergens and nutritional value should be imperative criteria from which no derogation should be allowed. investing in this social sector, transparent management and control of food products, together with continuous education and raising awareness of the importance of a healthy and balanced diet, will in the long term raise the quality of life and reduce the incidence of disease. by introducing quality food regulations and eliminating the possibility of fraud, we are directly improving the quality of life of our citizens.
written. - preventing food fraud is extremely important because it is about people's health and safety. food fraud also seriously undermines consumer confidence, food safety, the functioning of the food chain and price stability in agriculture. there are many different types of food fraud, ranging from substituting key ingredients for cheaper and lower quality ones, to mislabelling the animal species used for production, to examples such as labelling farmed fish as free-range fish and placing expired food on the market. in order to prevent this type of fraud, the report calls on all member states to provide additional administrative and technical capacity to carry out inspections and to encourage research and development programmes to develop and implement technologies and methods to detect food fraud. in croatia, a study on the quality of extra virgin olive oil showed that only one in four commercial olive oils is of the quality declared. croatia has faced horse meat instead of beef, the discovery of false food declarations and other frauds. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of consumers and the protection of the environment.
written. − food safety and consumer protection have always been at the heart of the european parliament's work. in the past few years, we've seen a few more scandalous cases of attempted consumer fraud in the food chain. i welcome any attempt to increase controls in the food chain to protect our citizens, which is why i voted for this report. i particularly support the rapporteur's proposal that official controls should deal not only with food safety but also with the prevention of fraud and the risk of misleading consumers. i also support the commission's proposal to set up a working group on food fraud. i also agree with the proposal to introduce mechanisms for greater coordination between member states and harmonisation of regulations at eu level, given that food trade crosses national borders.
written. − fraud in the food chain is a problem that has received increased attention in the last few years, especially after the horse meat scandal that shook the union in early 2013. such abuses negatively affect consumer confidence in the food chain, which has a potentially extremely negative impact on the meat industry. as a long-standing police officer, i wholeheartedly support the rapporteur's efforts to seek clearer and more transparent labelling between businesses and between businesses and consumers and greater awareness and increased supervision of frozen food. i am particularly pleased with the rapporteur's proposal that the commission should submit a proposal for a mandatory labelling of meat and fish indicating whether the products have been frozen, how often and for how long. i believe that such a move by the commission would not breach the principle of subsidiarity because member states often find it difficult to prosecute business operators selling counterfeit food across eu borders because of the question of competence, and this is an area in which i consider it positive that any further development of cooperation between the member states of the union and europol is made in order to prevent cross-border food fraud more effectively and uniformly. so i supported the report.
thank you, mr. chairman. this resolution addresses in large part a growing problem in many member states, namely undeclared work. the main tool in the fight against this phenomenon, but also in the protection of workers' rights, is the labour inspectorate. laws may be well-designed, but if the inspectorate does not supervise their implementation, they may remain a dead letter on paper. in croatia, under a new law, an employer who fails to pay wages or holds workers in escrow ends up in jail. this law is absolutely necessary and well-designed, but now he is on an inspection to check its implementation. in practice, monitoring and advising workers and employers requires a sufficient number of trained inspectors. finally, i welcome the fact that the structural funds are offering funding for national action plans to strengthen labour inspection mechanisms, because as long as undeclared work is rampant and 7 million europeans are affected at work every year, we cannot be satisfied.
mr president, i would like to congratulate my social democrat colleague, the rapporteur, mrs jutta steinruck, who has done an excellent job with this report. today, in times of crisis, we cannot allow the rights of workers to continue to be eroded. with this report we have shown that the european parliament respects and values all the workers who have built our union. only by taking this attitude, which respects the dignity of all, will we be able to rebuild the european economy.
i congratulate my colleague, mrs jutti steinruck, on a report which contains one of the key components on which the european union must rest, and that is solidarity. it is unacceptable that in the countries of our community the rate of undeclared work exceeds 30%. such work is a direct affront to the sense of recognition, fair treatment and safety of every worker. he's an introduction to low pay, low standards and an unsafe work environment. the report rightly notes the increasing abuse of temporary employment contracts to avoid the fulfilment of obligations arising from the employment relationship and the right to social protection. as a social democrat, i cannot agree with such a distortion of humane labour relations and that is why i wholeheartedly support this report which seeks to create an effective basis for effective labour inspections in all member states and thus prevent abuses which ultimately degrade not only work but also the overall dignity of every human being in an employment relationship. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be able to provide the necessary information to the member states in order to enable them to assess the effectiveness of the measures taken.
mr president, i welcome this resolution because i believe that effective labour inspections, if not a dead letter on paper, can go a long way towards creating better working conditions for workers who are currently at risk. unfortunately, i have to admit that although there is already legislation at member state level regulating such matters, its implementation is often questionable in practice. in particular, in croatia, we have a recent example of the abolition of the state inspectorate which was established as an independent state body which included the labour inspectorate, and today all inspectorates are under various ministries. there are many problems that arise in relation to this topic, both in croatia and in other european countries, and only some of them are undeclared work, the lack of social and health insurance that arises from it, insecure working environment, fragmentation of the labor market, lack of personnel and resources necessary for the effective conduct of labour inspections. this resolution can nevertheless be a step forward in improving labour legislation at european union level.
mr president, i support the report by mrs steinruck. this is a crucial issue at a time when many member states are facing a crisis and a strengthening of the shadow economy. the share of such economy, as we know, in the european union is very high, but the situation in croatia is worse, even 28.4% of gdp is achieved by the grey economy. i therefore consider the proposal to set up a european labour inspection platform to be a good one, as it would allow for a high-level exchange of information and coordination of work. but the implementation should also be effective, unlike, for example, in croatia, where a new system of labour inspection was introduced this year and the state inspectorate was dissolved. the commission has also been informed that the controls are being carried out in the member states. so i think a platform like this will give us a good direction in this bad case of ours.
mr president, i thank my colleague mrs steinruck for this report on effective labour inspection as part of the strategy to improve industrial relations in europe. i believe that this report has highlighted one of the most important social issues in the european union, namely the effective inspection of the work and rights of those citizens who find themselves in a situation where irresponsible employers deny them the rights they should have. we know that as much as 18.8% of the total gdp in the european union is the part that relates to undeclared work, that for example in croatia the grey economy and undeclared work have reached as much as 33% of the share in general unemployment. i believe that these are problems that we have to deal with in a cross-border way, and that an effective and independent labour inspectorate can help with this. i also find useful ideas for the launch of a european agency to deal with crossborder problems, as well as suggestions for the introduction of a european social security card.
in writing. − the subject of tackling undeclared work is very familiar in croatia. there are clear instructions for labour inspectors on how to work more effectively in tackling undeclared work or irregularities in business. the measures suggested are intended to lead to a lower rate of undeclared work and eventually to better working conditions. very similar measures are being implemented in croatia to fight undeclared work and the grey economy. to give one example, there is a pastry shop called gossip, which is on stradun, the most visited street in dubrovnik. it was closed for two months in the middle of the tourist season following an inspection, because there was difference of eur 1.5 between the register and the bills. this is just one case, and we have thousands more in croatia. these measures have the wrong effect at the wrong time. i support all measures which challenge undeclared work and other abuses or forms of non-compliance with legal obligations, but they must all be carefully prepared for each state individually. this is the main reason why i did not support this report.
written. - there are striking differences in working conditions between eu countries, even within the same companies (e.g. large retail chains). companies that close their doors here in strasbourg at 7 p.m. in other countries (usually poorer and usually more southerly, even in croatia) keep their shops open late into the night. it is done under conditions that in the home countries can hardly be imagined, on sundays and holidays, for a dozen or more hours a day. there's no labor inspector in these companies, they're corporations immune to government control and they're blindfolded. labour inspection is a key service in preserving some kind of social justice, but only if it works, if it has the support of the authorities (executive and judicial) and if it acts towards everyone in the same way.
mr president, of course i support this report because it seems to me particularly important that in promoting a europe of solidarity we also encourage employee ownership in private companies as one of the models of community and greater social equality. i am convinced that this is one of the instruments that strengthens social cohesion and strengthens the equality of all stakeholders involved in business processes. there is no doubt that employee participation in the management of private companies brings with it numerous benefits, both for employers and for employees. if it is based on accountability, it brings financial benefits to all those involved in the management process in some way. i am glad that mr bennion's report recognises and encourages such privileges, but it stresses that profit is by no means the only reason why this type of management model should be promoted as sustainable, humane, high-quality and good. i am particularly pleased that the report also includes recommendations from the committee on economic and monetary affairs which have addressed certain shortcomings and further clarified the report on tax issues. i thank my colleague bennion for his efforts and hope that the report will encourage as many employers as possible in the member states to actively involve their employees in the management process.
mr president, in order to develop this programme, employees need to be involved as much as possible in the decision-making process of the companies in which they are employed, which provides them with the space for personal development within the company itself, and thus the opportunity to develop professionally, which gives employers an incentive to invest more in the professional development of employees. it is necessary to strengthen smes with the ability of employees to invest in the company where they are employed and thus create stability and security for developing companies. i personally think that an employee will be more committed to the development of the company when he is involved in decision-making and if he knows that he will also participate in the distribution of income. i support the programme because it provides an opportunity for both entrepreneurs and employees to work together for their own benefit, but also for the benefit of the society in which they work, that is, the community. while there are key factors for the development and implementation of the programme such as the harmonisation of taxation and fiscal policies, there are a number of measures that need to be taken at union level to facilitate the implementation of the programme in the member states. i hope that the program will really produce a positive result in the shortest possible time.
mr. president, i welcome the regulation on the financial participation of employees in the company's revenues. the commission considers that the measures provided for in this decision are in line with the principles of the internal market and the functioning of the internal market, this institute for the worker should be purely voluntary in nature and should in no way represent a substitute for income and the like. the institution should therefore be structured to take account of all potential abuses and to protect the worker as a small shareholder. it is also important to highlight the ownership structure of each company in a transparent manner in order to avoid the possibility of double taxation of the employees of the shareholders. in order to further motivate workers to participate in such a model of company ownership, member states should define tax incentives for such a form of ownership at national level.
mr. president, today i, like most of my colleagues, supported the report of my colleague phil binion concerning the financial participation of employees in the income of companies. i think it is an interesting own-initiative report which addresses two important aspects. one is to motivate employees, i.e. workers, to identify with the society in which they work, to make a real contribution to its competitiveness, its performance and ultimately the profit that that society makes. and the ways that are proposed here are based on models that have been seen in the member states of the european union so far, which allow workers and employees to choose between several forms of either co-ownership or profit sharing in the form of shares, in the form of getting tangible cash based on the company's annual results or other benefits. these are all measures that can help workers in the european union to be competitive and employable.
written. − employee financial participation programmes build on the eu 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth and increase employee interest in the success of the business. financial participation shall encourage the productivity, satisfaction and innovation of workers. the workers are entitled to enjoy the benefits of the company's success, but this is not without risks associated with strategic decisions, nor without assuming responsibility for any failure. it is therefore of the utmost importance that workers are thoroughly and accurately informed about the risks and their rights. i see the resolution that allows for the voluntary financial participation of employees in the company's income as a qualitative attempt to resolve the eternal conflict between labor and capital and as a qualitative response to the processes of savage capitalism, which we are currently encountering especially in transition countries. success in tackling productivity issues, which are dictated by the market and the level of workers' incomes, is essential to building a modern and progressive european society in the 21st century.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which provides for the financial participation of employees in the company's profits. this is a concrete sign in the direction of the development of the themes of inclusive growth envisaged by the europe 2020 strategy. employee financial participation in company profits (evp) ensures greater involvement of employees in the decision-making process of the companies in which they work and reinforces the concept of effective and efficient governance.
written. − employee financial participation in companies' revenues is one of the ways of involving and motivating employees, fostering a sense of ownership and reinforcing mutual respect between employers and employees. the three main employee financial participation models that a company can choose are: revenue sharing (cash, deferred or in shares), share ownership for individual employees (employee shares or stock options) and employee stock ownership schemes. although the eu recognises the usefulness of employee financial participation schemes, this is not an area of eu competence and this report is a recommendation to member states. the eu could provide an outline concept with general guidelines on basic principles and best practice to assist in the decision-making on employee financial participation schemes at national and company level. there are a number of measures that could be taken at eu level to facilitate the implementation of employee financial participation schemes in the member states, ranging from the prevention of double taxation to concrete frameworks for action built on the success stories of other member states. employee financial participation is a mechanism that contributes to the europe 2020 core objectives of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth by increasing the involvement of workers in decision-making in the companies in which they work, encouraging the strengthening of good governance and ensuring a share of the financial benefits of successful business operations, and i therefore support this report.
written. − i supported this report because i believe that such a concept of financial participation is extremely positive, both for employers and for employees. employees would have the opportunity to participate in the management of the company and would be more motivated and focused on the development of the company, while employers would, on the other hand, invest in employees and their education, which together would lead to higher productivity. as overall participation in such programmes is still very low, i support the creation of a 'framework concept' to help in decision-making on financial participation programmes at national and company level. i consider it extremely important to highlight the differences between member states with regard to compulsory social contributions to income for financial participation and that the framework for the european employee ownership model should not be overridden by national taxation rights. in order to ensure that the member states are able to take full advantage of the opportunities offered by the european employment strategy, the commission should be able to adopt, by means of implementing acts, the measures necessary to ensure that the member states are able to take full advantage of the opportunities offered by the european employment strategy.
written. − employee financial participation in company revenues can lead to much more loyal, satisfied and motivated workers. this in itself increases their productivity, which in turn brings in higher profits for the company. i therefore support this report and certainly the part of it which states that such participation must be voluntary. i also support the recommendation to member states to adopt appropriate measures to encourage companies to provide for employee financial participation in company revenues, which would be open to all workers. of course, when creating such policies, special attention should be paid to the specific situations of smes.
written. − i fully support the report which emphasises employee financial participation programmes in developing workers' participation in the management and financial success of the companies in which they work. i support all programs that will contribute to reducing unemployment, investing in skills and modernizing the labor market. the report is very balanced and takes account of the differences in labour laws in the eu member states. it should be noted that the report indicates that the eu can play a role in facilitating the exchange of best practice by establishing a 'legal framework' that will make it easier for companies to operate in more than one member state and by presenting guidelines on the taxation of employee financial participation. such programmes can not only increase the productivity, competitiveness and profitability of a company, but also encourage employee participation, improve the quality of employment and contribute to greater social cohesion. this may lead to a faster development and recovery of small and medium-sized enterprises (smes), which are considered the backbone of the european economy.
written. - this is a fairy tale in the style of the concept of workers' self-management in the former yugoslavia. in theory, it sounds perfect, in practice, it's not quite what it sounds like, and in the end, it was terrible. i hope this one doesn't turn out like that. however, as a member of the labour party, i am glad to see that there is someone else in this parliament who thinks that the current relations between labour and capital are not humane, not fair, not good and that they need to be changed. workers should share in the company's income, but then i guess they should also share in the responsibility for that company and for their job. i'm afraid that in the age of brutal capitalism, which for some reason we call neoliberal, these ideas can hardly get the support of the owners of capital. it's more like they're exploiting the worker to the limit and treating him like a cost. it's cheaper, it's more profitable, and it can be done. just don't know how far.
mr president, in the face of high unemployment, i would point out as a positive consequence that in 2012 alone almost 33 million europeans took the initiative and decided to become self-employed. it is especially popular among young people and women. the experience is very positive. in some countries, more than 90% of companies started in this way survive in the market. self-employment not only helps the individual but also society as a whole in conditions where the state and the economy have been unable to respond to rising unemployment. in addition, self-employment is not based on professional qualifications or previous work experience, and flexible working makes it easier to care for children or incapacitated family members. so i think that state subsidies for self-employment are a great way to encourage and encourage even more unemployed people to take this step. of course, what i consider particularly important is that at the same time social protection must be provided for the selfemployed so that they are not discriminated against in the labour market.
mr president, the report by mrs blinkevičiūtė is an important step towards ensuring social protection for all citizens of the european union and i was therefore very happy to support it. i am pleased that the report has already received very strong support at the relevant committee meetings, as this is good evidence that most of us here representing eu citizens want to promote social inclusion and social justice as core values of the european social model. in this sense, preserving income and guaranteeing high-quality education and healthcare services for everyone are essential prerequisites for european solidarity. the social dimension must not be overlooked if we are to halt the erosion of humane working relations which is currently accompanied in the european union by an increasingly pronounced and unscrupulous disregard for labour law and workers' rights. i strongly support the condemnation of the employment contract which allows for the avoidance of paying a decent wage and the avoidance of paying all social benefits. i am particularly pleased that the report explicitly calls on member states to take concrete steps to combat poverty and social exclusion by providing an adequate minimum income and social protection for all - not for some, not for certain, not for the privileged, but for all!
mr president, this report is another brilliant and glorious story: a europe where everybody is protected and safe. it almost seems as if the left is not needed in the best of all possible europes. unfortunately, the reality is not so pleasant; young people are unemployed, the old are poor, and homeless people and beggars can be seen even on the streets of strasbourg. whenever i mentioned this topic outside of parliament, i was told that the welfare society is the dead past – and i do not want to accept this. we have the state that protects those who have, know and can, and which should protect those who cannot protect themselves – which it does not do. this parliament is like a golden castle: difficult to enter, and from which it is even more difficult to see how people live outside. seriously, we are obliged to do everything to protect socially and in any other respect those who cannot protect themselves: the weak, the poor, the uneducated, and those too young or too old to be able to cope with the world as it is. this is the only way to justify our being in this castle.
mr president, the european union is a social community and must do everything possible to prevent the economic crisis from affecting the social rights which are the basis of social security. i believe that the right to social protection is a fundamental right that has come to fruition in these turbulent times when, specifically, in croatia, more than 600 people are unemployed every day, and the youth unemployment rate is over 52%, which unfortunately has placed croatia in the top third of this infamous ranking in the european union. self-employment must be recognised as a desirable new form of employment, creating jobs and reducing unemployment. in order to create progress, it must also include adequate social protection measures, because self-employment with a small number of entrepreneurs is the basis of economic growth and development in the advanced member states of the european union, and the fact that women are choosing entrepreneurship as their activity more often than men cannot be ignored and it is particularly necessary to encourage and support women who have a family, because in the end a stable family is the basis of progress and growth of society and therefore of the economic recovery that we urgently need today.
mr president, the european union represents 7% of the world's population, but generates 25% of its gdp. however, it also generates 50% of all social transfers in the world. it is precisely this gap of 7% of the population generating 25% of gdp, but 50% of social transfers that opens up the problem of the competitiveness of our european economy and the real question when it comes to social policy reform is how to do this reform in order to increase competitiveness, but at the same time to preserve solidarity in society. this report does at least partially explain and offer some solutions and in that sense i have supported it. i think it's good to focus and talk about the same thing about social protection for the self-employed, for family businesses, for craftsmen, but that's only, of course, part of the solution. increasing competitiveness is also the real global solution for the competitiveness of the european economy.
written. − while each member state is responsible for its own social protection system, this does not mean that we should not give guidance and advocate a model of social protection of equal quality in all member states. i would like to mention here two values that are interlinked in this field: freedom of movement and equal social protection for all. one of the reasons for the desire to harmonise social protection systems in our member states is the need to avoid selective migration of the population. unfavorable social conditions in their own countries often cause people to emigrate to countries with better social protection. but we cannot approach this problem from one angle. freedom of movement is one of the union's fundamental values which must always be protected. we must also not lose sight of the fact that some countries or regions in europe are not able to offer the most optimal social protection conditions and are still struggling with high unemployment. if the systems of such countries were to be equated with those of countries with much lower unemployment rates and where the social protection system requires high public spending, we cannot trust that all parts of the union would develop at the same speed.
written. − the report highlights the need for continuous adaptation and modernisation of social protection systems at member state level, which will guarantee quality, sustainable and adequate social protection for all citizens, based on the principles of universal access and non-discrimination and the ability to respond in a timely manner to new demographic and labour market changes. europe is facing the challenges of an ageing population, low birth rates and a changing labour market, which increase the need for urgent reform of social security systems. the issue of pensions and ensuring the sustainability of the pension system is of particular importance. the member states are invited to bear in mind their social role, which is often the case in crisis situations. states should ensure social protection guaranteeing the protection of the minimum income established in each country and access to basic social rights, in particular in the event of sickness, unemployment, maternity, disability, retirement. the report encourages the ec and the member states to strike a balance between labour market security and flexibility, and to segment the labour market by providing social protection to those in transition, temporary or part-time employment, while ensuring access to further education. social protection is at the heart of the european social model and one of its main objectives is to promote social inclusion and social justice, and i supported this report.
written. − the number of self-employed persons in croatia has been around 20% of the total number of employed persons over the last two decades and is therefore slightly higher than the european average. i supported the report by mrs blinkevičiūtė as it provided a good insight into the key problems faced by the self-employed. the european social model must adapt to the new economic situation by correcting the shortcomings that are shown to exist in practice. one of them is just social "non-protected" self-employed. they are often self-employed precisely because they have no other employment opportunities. we must not allow the lack of social and labour rights, which is reflected in pension rights, to punish self-employed workers simply because they have struggled to provide for themselves and their families. social protection is a social investment because it's the workers who run the economy. i am particularly pleased that we are highlighting the fact that women, especially young mothers, often seek such forms of work and i welcome the call to member states to take into account their periods of career break in the calculation of pensions and other entitlements.
written. - i thank my colleague, mrs valia blinkeviciute, and i support her report. social protection is one of the cornerstones of the european union and its social model. the current economic climate is not helped by the fact that the number of unemployed is increasing and that young people are unable to find work. it is clear that alternative forms of employment need to be supported, and self-employment is the best example, accounting for as much as 15% of the total eu workforce. however, self-employed people often face the problem of lower social protection, particularly in terms of health insurance, pensions, child benefit and overtime. in such a context, it is important that the commission and the parliament's employment and social affairs committee cooperate with the member states in equalising social rights in the public sector with the rights of the self-employed, as differences between countries restrict the freedom of movement of workers. it is also necessary to work on better controlling false self-employment. in the process of eu accession for croatia, the implementation of the memorandum on social inclusion signed by the government of the republic of croatia with the european commission back in 2007 was significant in this area.
written. − the right to social protection is a fundamental right that has come to the fore in these turbulent times when over 600 people are unemployed every day in croatia and the youth unemployment rate is over 52%, putting croatia in a high 3rd place in this infamous eu ranking. the european union is a social union and must do everything possible to prevent the economic crisis from undermining the social rights which are the basis of social security. self-employment in croatia, as in other member states, must be recognised as a desirable, new form of employment, job creation and reduction of unemployment. we must therefore encourage individuals to think in this way, for we are all certainly aware of the importance of the newly created job for economic development and the improvement of standards in all member states. to make progress in this area, it must also include adequate social protection measures, as self-employment alongside small business is the foundation of economic growth and development in advanced eu member states.
written. − while i absolutely understand the need to protect the social rights of the self-employed, i believe that we must not fall into the trap of making long-term self-employment an acceptable or even tempting lifestyle choice. we need to motivate self-employed people to realise their entrepreneurial projects by opening companies and employing others, thereby actively involving them in the financing of the social protection system. i believe we will all agree that social rights for all social categories in the eu must be at a respectable level. but we must always keep in mind that these rights must be funded. that's why i voted against it.
the report by mr vaughan calls on the member states to draw up their operational programmes as soon as possible and to start implementing them. the report calls for simplification of procedures in the implementation of operational programmes. i believe that this will increase the absorption of european funds which is badly needed by some member states in the context of the economic crisis. the report also stresses the importance of involving regional and local authorities in the preparation of operational programmes. this will make programmes more realistic and efficient and will allocate resources where they are most needed.
written. − this european parliament resolution on the readiness of member states to make effective and timely use of the cohesion policy from the new programming period is extremely valuable as it gives an overview of the state of preparation of member states for the implementation of eu funds in the period 2014-2020 and is an incentive for member states still preparing to be more efficient. what is particularly important is that it is not only important whether the underlying strategic documents, the partnership agreement and the operational programme have been prepared, but also how they have been prepared. these documents must be capable of identifying all the segments of society which are subsequently the enforcers. strategic documents should be developed in close cooperation with local and regional self-government units, civil society, entrepreneurs, social partners, young people, scientists. ideally, operational programmes should be based on strategic development plans drawn up at local level and harmonised with national policies. the operational programmes are then based on an analysis of the situation and the objectives are set taking into account the competitive strengths identified at regional level. member states making good progress in preparing the partnership agreement and the operational programmes submitted the draft of these documents to the european commission for informal consultation as early as june 2013 and, more importantly, conducted the necessary consultations with all segments of society at least one year in advance.
written. − i supported this report which summarises the main guidelines for better practice by the member states of the european union in cohesion policy. in the new programming period 2014-2020, it is important to encourage member states to strengthen economic, territorial and social cohesion, in particular in countries affected by a high intensity economic crisis. i would stress the importance of focusing on a results-oriented approach, ensuring a positive long-term impact, but also recognising economic, social and environmental priorities. i also consider it important to reduce the administrative burden in order to achieve the most efficient drawdown of funds, as well as effective coordination between member states in relation to partnership agreements and operational programmes. cooperation is needed at all levels - national, regional and local - in all phases of the funding programme and the flow of information to all actors, and those representing different economic, social and environmental perspectives. i think it is very important to provide assistance at all stages of project preparation in order to make the most of eu funding and to make member states more prepared and ready to withdraw funds in each new period.
written. − i support the report on the readiness of the eu member states for an effective and timely start to the new programming period of cohesion policy. it is very important that project financing in the new period can start as early as possible in order to stimulate economic growth in the regions. although it has used cohesion policy funds for many years, croatia now has a much larger amount of funds at its disposal as a member of the european union. under the pressure of the economic crisis, croatia is facing negative developments in economic indicators, and external funds, i.e. cohesion policy funds, are therefore crucial for achieving the objectives of convergence, regional competitiveness and employment. the commission has also taken note of the fact that the budgetary deficit in croatia is expected to increase by around 3% in the coming years, and that the budgetary deficit in croatia is expected to increase by around 3% in the coming years. the finalisation of the partnership agreements and operational programmes is a priority for the croatian government, which is why, after the conclusion of the cohesion policy package and the adoption of the eu multiannual financial framework, we expect the withdrawal of funds from the cohesion policy funds to start as soon as possible.
written. − i supported the report by my colleague, derek vaughan, on the readiness of the eu member states for an effective and timely start to the new cohesion policy programming period. in order to ensure that the union's cohesion policy is not distorted by the excessive use of resources, the commission should be able to adopt a decision on the basis of the criteria set out in the first subparagraph of article 108 (3) tfeu. programming and operational programmes are essential in the process of preparing the use of cohesion fund funds and for croatia as a new member, which can only count on generous and in times of economic crisis necessary funds with a properly established functional institutional framework and prepared strategic and programming documents. as a member of the committee on budgets, i would like to stress the importance of the principle of multi-level governance, which is crucial for the effective management of the new cohesion policy. it is also important to carry out a review of the mff by the end of 2016 in order to allow the next commission and the next parliament to reassess the eu's political priorities and, if necessary, to adapt the mff to new challenges.
written. − at a time when many eu member states are still reeling from the effects of the economic crisis, the union's cohesion funds are an important generator of economic growth. an effective cohesion policy can make a significant contribution to member states in creating jobs, increasing competitiveness and fostering sustainable growth and development. i supported this report, in which the european parliament stresses the importance and need to start allocating funds from the cohesion funds for the new programming period 2014-2020 as soon as possible. i also support the parliament's view that a key part of cohesion policy must be 'smart' specialisation, thematic concentration, exploitation of the comparative advantages of regions and member states; in short, that the priority of this policy must be efficiency and return on investment and investment.
written. − i fully agree with this programme because i believe it can help the member states of the european union and its citizens. the new cohesion policy proposed in parliament for the member states can have an impact on job creation, competitiveness and long-term growth. the above factors are of great importance at a time of crisis which has had a significant impact on the countries of the european union, including the republic of croatia. by adopting this programme, the european commission can implement operational programmes and conclude agreements with national partners to ensure that funding can be allocated as quickly as possible. the programme aims at advancing the economic development of the member states and focuses on various factors during its implementation, such as the selection of sectors to be focused on and to be improved, the effectiveness of the programme.
written. − the public procurement regime is by nature very complex, especially for small local authorities and smes. wider access to clear information and advice on eu rules should be equally needed for public procurement for contracting authorities, in particular at regional and local level, and for small and medium-sized enterprises. the commission and the member states share a major responsibility in providing training and advice, the necessary information and assistance to regional and local authorities and small and medium-sized enterprises and should involve other stakeholders to ensure effective participation in public procurement, thereby reducing the frequency of errors and irregularities and developing the necessary expertise among contracting authorities of local and regional authorities in the field of public procurement. i voted in favour because i support increasing the efficiency of public spending to ensure the best possible outcome in terms of value for money and to enable public procurement to be of greater benefit to shared social objectives such as environmental protection, employment and social inclusion and insurance.
written. − analysis of economic indicators in a large number of eu member states has shown that a significant proportion of them rely on the structural and cohesion funds as the most effective way out of the economic crisis. i am pleased that the report by my colleague, mr vaughan, recognises this and that partly for this reason it calls on all member states to draw up their operational programmes as soon as possible and to start implementing them as soon as possible. i particularly support the part of the report which recognises the simplification of procedures in the implementation of operational programmes. i hope that such a measure will increase the absorption capacity of all those involved in this process and thus contribute to strengthening the economy at european level. we've been in the red for far too long, and i deeply believe that the timely and effective implementation of all member states' operational programs can bring us one step closer to the final recession. the most important thing, of course, is to exhaust all available resources and it is therefore crucial that national governments recognise their leading role in this process. in conclusion, i am pleased that this report emphasises the need to involve regional and local authorities in the preparation of each member state's operational programmes. only then will the available resources be used in the right way and allocated to where they are really needed.
written. − with the increasing technological possibilities of recycling and the increasing use of plastics in everyday life, it is important that plastic waste is separated into a specific category and treated as a resource. by promoting green technologies, recycling and reusing reusable materials, the solution to the growing problem of raw material scarcity is provided. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the definition of recycled plastic waste, the definition of recycled plastic waste and the definition of recycled plastic waste.
written. - the plastics industry in europe has a turnover of over eur 300 billion a year and employs 1.54 million people. in 2010 alone, 95.5 billion plastic bags were placed on the eu market. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and to monitor the implementation of the new rules and the implementation of the new rules. this makes it very difficult to exploit it as a valuable secondary raw material. the european commission's green paper calls for separate eu legislation, the successful implementation of which would make the plastics recycling sector a new source of jobs. the plastics recycling sector would be able to employ around 162 000 people if recycling across the european union were to increase by 70% by 2020, which is one of the stated objectives of the socialist and democrats in the european parliament. i support this initiative and believe that intensive campaigns are needed to raise the level of awareness of the general public. in order to make this strategy as effective as possible and to pursue our common goal of a greener europe, the active involvement of local and regional authorities is also needed.
written. - i support this report and want to highlight the current underestimation of plastic waste considering that 40% of waste comes from packaging. we often forget that the issue of plastic waste can be seen not only from an environmental perspective but also from an economic one. of course, always keeping in mind the sustainability of the ecosystem, in this case, where economic and environmental interests can overlap. if we were to treat plastic waste more rationally, and this applies in particular to waste prevention, reuse and recycling, viewing it as a raw material and a usable resource, we would be in a position to reconcile these two often conflicting interests. the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the measures on the environment and the environment-related aspects of the implementation of the union's policy on plastic waste. as unrealistic as it is to set unrealistic targets, it is impossible to expect quality implementation without clear objectives and the instruments by which to plan to achieve them. i would particularly like to point out the importance of funding infrastructure for recycling plastic waste instead of funding landfills and incineration of waste. in croatia, we have a big problem with landfills that threaten human health and the sustainability of ecosystems. so far, only a hundred of the more than three hundred landfills in croatia have been remediated.
written. −i voted in favour of this resolution based on the concept of a circular economy, taking into account the factual situation set out in the proposal: i support the development of specific eu legislation on plastic waste and the alignment of existing standards with actual production, and above all the initiative of absolute reduction of resource use. i agree that plastic is too valuable a resource to be landfilled or incinerated, and i think it's very important to regulate the production of this resource in a way that maximizes its use and facilitates the sorting process later. the commission notes that the waste incineration plant is located in a different area of the city of kleve, and that the waste incineration plant is located in the same area of the city of kleve. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and to monitor the implementation of the new rules and the implementation of the new rules. last but not least, i would mention the creation of new jobs in all phases of the product life cycle, from eco-design, to repair, to repackaging and recycling.
written. − redefining europe's approach to plastics and shifting the notion of plastics and plastic recycling from waste to a usable industrial resource is a welcome step that will have positive effects on the environment but also on economic growth through the stimulation of recycling plants that also create new jobs. the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the measures on the environment and the environment-related aspects of the waste management strategy, including the impact of the measures on the environment and the environment. the call for a thorough and comprehensive awareness-raising campaign, as commendably called for in article 13 of the motion for a resolution, should therefore be highlighted and strongly supported. article 12 of the resolution, which calls for the development of adequate recycling infrastructure and accompanying public policies, combined with education and public campaigning, can undoubtedly produce the desired results, is also to be commended. in this respect, the croatian example of subsidising the purchase of pet packaging, which, with its upgrade and extension to other types of plastic packaging and products, can serve as an example of good practice that has successfully provided plastic raw material to recycling plants and removed a significant amount of plastic waste from the environment, should be highlighted.
written. − i supported the report by my colleague vittoria prodia which aims to reduce the environmental impact of plastic waste, extend the life cycle of existing plastic products and tackle the issue of plastic waste in the seas. the eu plastics sector is an industry that generates more than €300 billion in turnover and employs 1.54 million people, but there is still no clear waste data. of the estimated 25 mt of plastic waste in 2008 in the eu27, only 21.3% was recycled. croatia generates on average one third less municipal waste than the eu27. as regards plastic waste, in 2007 croatia generated 143 kt of plastic waste, or 32t/capita, of which only 17% was recycled, which is below the already relatively modest eu average. i want to draw attention to the problem of plastic waste from albania that croatia is unfortunately facing. the situation of large quantities of waste being carried by sea currents and southeast winds from albania is becoming more frequent. in just a few days, hundreds of tons of plastic waste are being dumped on beaches in the southern part of croatia, directly threatening not only the environment but also croatian tourism as one of the most important industries.
written. − plastic waste should be treated as a valuable resource by promoting its reuse, recycling and recovery. the new eu policy on environmental protection, eco-innovation and waste management should be preceded by comprehensive impact assessments, including their social consequences and the potential for creating new so-called green jobs. the plastics industry in the european union employs around 1.6 million people and could create an additional 162 000 jobs by 2020 if the recycling rate is increased to 70%. the circular economy model is particularly important as it allows growth to be decoupled from the depletion of natural resources and is therefore a regenerative model that can impact all sectors and be a source of new jobs. the circular economy involves a complete change in the concept of the product itself and creates new jobs at all stages of the production cycle. from eco-design to repair, repackaging, all the way to recycling. in particular, i welcome the proposal to introduce a commission green paper and to identify problems that would lead to additional measures on plastic waste in european union legislation and to a harmonisation, consistency and more rigorous application and enforcement of existing waste legislation. i voted for this motion.
written. − this ambitious target of 75% recycled plastics by 2020 gives impetus to the creation of efficient waste management systems. i consider this proposal necessary primarily because a clear implementation of eu legislation would contribute to economic development, and the plastics recycling sector offers the potential to create over one hundred thousand jobs. i point to the great problem of plastic waste in the sea, and i express particular concern for the adriatic sea, which is a semi-enclosed sea. the problem is relevant to all eu member states and to those countries that are about to become members, and it is therefore of the utmost importance that the rules relating to environmental protection are harmonized. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on waste management and its implementation in the member states.
written. − given that croatia has not yet established an effective plastic waste management system, i am particularly interested in this strategy. i voted for this report because i agree that we must give priority to recycling over incineration or disposal of plastic waste. but such a strategy does require raising awareness among citizens, and i believe that the rapporteur has well recognised the need to organise campaigns and better inform citizens about the properties of products by means of specific labelling. the rapporteur advocates punishing the illegal export and disposal of plastic waste, but unfortunately the flow of plastic waste from third countries to eu member states by sea is not mentioned. croatia has had a problem for some time with waste coming by sea from albania, where there are only two legal landfills and a large number of illegal landfills. we should establish a dialogue with third countries to find a common solution to such problems, especially if they are candidate and potential candidate countries.
written. − the report advocates official recognition of the european regional quality label in order to expand the market for goods and services. it states that regional quality branding, based on a territorial bottom-up approach, promotes cooperation between different local economic operators and socio-professional organisations, which, as a result, develop and improve their products and services and introduce environmentally friendly practices. the report emphasises that respect for workers' rights and consideration of environmental impacts are particularly important aspects of the quality criteria. i find the report by my colleague eric andrieu to be extremely positive. regional branding can help to promote quality products and services and create new positive market mechanisms.
written. − i supported this report which promotes and encourages regions to recognise their specificity and an innovative approach to regional branding. the regional quality label can certainly be one of the results of a smart specialisation of the regions and the joint work of local units, entrepreneurs, scientists and non-profit organisations is key to the development of the regional quality label. regional quality labels designed in this way drive the growth and development of a given area by bringing together all segments of society and contributing to excellence with their ideas. the european funds, in particular the european agricultural and regional development fund, can also be used to develop regional quality labels, which is important to exploit. in the republic of croatia, a project to visually mark island products with the label croatian island product was launched in early 2007. in total, 145 island producers have received this quality label for 409 products. these include food, cosmetics, clothing, and souvenirs. the project has encouraged islanders to develop new ideas and self-employment, creating products of above-average quality and giving consumers something new and special. the effects of this branding are manifold, from keeping the population on the islands to creating new income and stimulating growth and development. through the development of regional quality labels, the region and europe as a whole preserve their identity and tradition, which is often lost in the processes of globalisation.
written. − having regard to the detailed consideration of the regional labelling situations, which aim to create a specific offer and new development models for all rural regions, let me set out the reasons for supporting this motion for a resolution: i supported this motion in particular for the reasons of an integrated approach and the importance of implementing joint projects, particularly in the agricultural sector. the already developed system of protected designations (pdo, pgi) and the desire to compete on price and cost had to be taken into account, all in order to invest in the vitality of the region's competitiveness. i welcome the emphasis on micro-enterprises and the complementing of the supply of goods and services with a view to territorial additions and value creation, as well as the recognition of the quality of the overall tourism product and the preservation of the image of europe that encourages the creation of alternative solutions for traditional sectors such as agriculture and livestock. i would like to highlight the example of croatia; more precisely, krapinsko zagorje county and its label bajka na dlani, which, encompassing enogastronomy, tradition, natural resources and values, is becoming a leading destination for continental tourism. in particular, i support new forms of governance that will foster interaction and cooperation between diverse and interdependent actors, and in which public authorities play a key role by connecting at all levels, both regional, national and transnational.
written. − i support the report on regional labelling to achieve better practices in territorial branding by rural economies. i share the rapporteur's view that the concept of regional quality labels must be clearly defined in order to avoid overlap with existing quality and origin labels. agricultural and food producers in croatia are characterised by the diversity of products and production processes by geographical regions. croatian regions have many territorially specific products due to historical, relief and climatic influences. the commission considers that the measures provided for in this decision are in accordance with the opinion of the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 1303/2013, the adoption of a regional quality label would encourage stakeholders in a region to network, enrich the offer and act together under the regional quality label, which is certainly worth supporting. in conclusion, i also take this opportunity to point out the need to find a mechanism in the system of regional codes that will prevent the current problems of assimilation of products with different characteristics produced in the same region that geographically crosses the borders of one country, which croatian producers of istrian ham have recently faced.
written. - i supported the report of my colleague eric andrew. i believe that the issue of regional labelling is of particular importance at a time when the european market is overrun with products about which little is known. in addition to the indication of origin and geographical origin, the regional code will help to qualify the product in more detail. it is primarily relevant for rural economies because it tells about the origin of the product and at the same time it provides promotion of that rural area and gives it a distinctive character. this gives rural areas a boost to development. on the other hand, the regional label helps consumers because they will have an insight into what they are buying as well as the origin of the product itself. the regional code will help all countries that want to improve their rural areas and at the same time promote their places. it also allows for control of production activities which have hitherto been difficult to monitor, and i therefore support its development and believe that conditions for its application should be established as soon as possible. the commission has also received comments from the applicant, which has not provided any evidence that the measure is compatible with the internal market. the regional label is important because it also promotes the competitiveness of rural areas and the more successful development of tourism, since it complements the offer.
written. - the concept of regional development has gained in importance in recent years. the introduction of the regional quality label should contribute to preserving europe's image as a high-quality tourist destination based on different branches of regional tourism, such as rural tourism, ecotourism and gastronomic tourism. this would allow consumers to recognise the quality of the tourist product more easily. the commission notes that the aid granted to the beneficiary is limited to the minimum necessary to ensure that the aid is compatible with the internal market. the introduction of the quality label, with proper implementation, can raise the recognition of all parts of croatian tourism. i voted in favour of this report, but i would like to stress the key part of it: the introduction of the regional quality label must not become an additional administrative complication or cost to the state. i certainly support the rapporteur in calling on the member states to remove all obstacles between ministries and other administrative bodies in implementing this initiative.
written. − i support this initiative because the global regional development strategy allows for new activities, not only those linked to agricultural development but also other economic and social activities, which in turn promote employment. the regional code allows the identification of the identity of a particular region and the creation of a system of regional production, strengthening and exploiting all domestic resources. regional development is also important for exploiting the development potential in croatia in order to reduce inequalities between regions and increase their competitiveness and realise potential, reduce unemployment, which stood at 21,1% at the end of 2013.
written. - i am opposed to this initiative because i believe that the institution of protection of origin and geographical origin is quite sufficient for the quality branding of products of the european regions and that there is absolutely no need to introduce a european roofing label. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the aid granted to the beneficiaries of the aid is compatible with the internal market. i also believe that the member states are best placed to recognise the specificity of their products and to develop their regional brands and that the union should not interfere.
mr president, public procurement is of particular social interest because it is a real test of the maturity of political representatives who often act irresponsibly with taxpayers' money. there is a need to regulate this area as much as possible so that public money is directed to the right projects and to the best bidders. i therefore welcome the introduction of greater flexibility and transparency and the facilitation of access to procurement procedures for smes, making public procurement truly public. i agree with the rapporteur that all those who do not comply with their obligations under labour law should be excluded from the procedure, and i would add that the same should apply to those convicted of fraud, money laundering and other serious criminal offences. but this increased flexibility brings greater challenges, as public procurement is a favorite playground for embezzlement of public money and abuse of power. although it is probably justified from an economic point of view, i consider that the introduction of the criterion of the most economically advantageous tender opens up too much room for manipulation and that without a system of stricter controls the expected result will not be achieved.
madam president, first of all i would like to express my support for the report by my colleague marc tarabella and congratulate him and the other shadow rapporteurs who, on the basis of the commission proposal presented to us here by commissioner michel barnier, whom i also welcome, have explained the development of this legislative package which modernises the texts of the directives in force since 2004 and that it is good that concession contracts and public procurement and public procurement contracts are adopted and awarded together by entities involved in the water, energy and transport sectors and the postal services sector. there is no doubt that public procurement is a key element of the europe 2020 strategy and that it helps the european union, accounting for as much as 19% of gdp in the eu member states, in economic development and employment. in croatia, public procurement accounts for as much as 12% of gdp and we were aware of the importance of this very segment of the highly demanding accession negotiations on the basis of which we adapted croatian legislation to public procurement. what i think in particular is that the new regulation will bring additional transparency and give smes more chances to get the right jobs at eu level through competitions and new, simplified procedures.
madam president, i would like to draw your attention briefly to the concession agreements which represent an important instrument for croatia in the long-term development of infrastructure and strategic services. i welcome the adoption of a balanced legal framework for the award of concessions and the provision of effective and non-discriminatory market access for all economic operators in the union. the adoption of clear rules at union level provides for greater legal certainty and in particular facilitates equal access and fair participation of small and medium-sized enterprises in the award of concession contracts at local and union level. i welcome the introduction of new criteria in the concession award procedure, including environmental protection, innovation, social issues focusing on working conditions and the protection of the health of staff, and the promotion of the social integration of disadvantaged persons, including accessibility for persons with disabilities. i also support the application of the above factors to subcontractors and the right of member states to introduce stricter liability rules.
madam chair, beyond defining pollen, this debate puts the focus on the fundamental question of the coexistence of genetically modified plants and beekeeping. i believe that it is our duty as directly elected representatives of the people to protect future generations, to give them the opportunity to grow food safely and to have transparency in placing it on the union market. i am proud that croatia is one of the gmo-free countries, where as many as 14 out of 20 counties have formally recognized the importance of natural production and declared their areas free from gmo production. this tradition should be nurtured and the efforts of croatian beekeepers who make great efforts to adhere to good beekeeping practices, which are the basis for sustainable development of beekeeping, should be recognised. they involve a higher degree of responsibility and continuous education, investment in hatcheries and other equipment, and the day-to-day care of the bees. in order to achieve this, and to combat the worrying trend of declining bee numbers, union support is essential, especially for smaller producers. we need to say no to the pressures of the gmo industry and strongly advocate for the production of honey as it is done today in croatia, in a natural, safe and clean environment.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – mr president, is the programme really called hercules, followed by iii? maybe this is a little bit presumptuous. anyhow the aim of the programme is to protect european financial interests – the budget (our budget) – in member states. some member states in particular have great problems protecting their own budgets from fraud, counterfeiting, the corruption associated with it, smuggling and the like. the problem is even greater when you bear in mind the fact that legal regulations differ widely from country to country. the programme is supposed to respect subsidiarity and not to step beyond the bounds of member state jurisdiction and responsibility, which is good. the eur 110 million is supposed to help the countries find common ground for action, exchange information and promote best practices for fighting these criminal actions. surely the last is the most important issue in the programme, as it will be able to help protect not only european financial interests but the interests of member states as well. however, the proposed timeline is not so good, since – as is always the case – we are slower than the criminals. if the results do not come much sooner than 2017 or 2021, we will be in deep trouble.
mr president, 'hercule iii' is a really good programme, but from my point of view as a croatian mep, it is difficult to implement across the european union. i believe that the fight against counterfeiting and cigarette smuggling can only be effective with the full application of the schengen system at all the external borders of the union and the tightening of measures against candidate and potential candidate countries from which large quantities of cigarettes are currently smuggled into croatia. according to the customs administration, in the first nine months of 2013, more cigarettes were smuggled into croatia than in the same period of 2012, and almost all of these goods arrived via serbia and bosnia and herzegovina. therefore, while i support the efforts of the commission and the parliament on this issue, i fear that without the application of schengen at croatian borders, stricter conditions for neighbouring countries in their accession to the union and quality cross-border programmes through more effective cooperation between police and judicial authorities, croatia will not benefit much from the hercule iii programme.
madam president, i welcome this report and i welcome all the efforts that commissioner tajani is making to promote this new approach to industrial policy in europe. it is really needed, especially in some member states like croatia, where i come from, where industrial production fell by 3.3% last year alone and the number of people employed in industry fell by 3.5%. all of this just last year, and unfortunately, it's been happening for a long time. there are a number of reasons why this is so, but it's clear that two key elements are key to solving this problem and to a new industrial renaissance: one is more investment in r&amp;d. europe has not yet reached our 3% gdp target, croatia is still far below that. and the other, of course, is the issue of lending policy for small and medium-sized enterprises, and that's what we need to focus on.
madam president, europe needs reindustrialisation and growth in industrial production, but we must accept the fact that with all the technical demands placed on european producers in many sectors, we can hardly compete with world economies that do not apply high production standards and whose labour is much cheaper than european. europe is going to go through a period of high-tech investment, innovation and a relief for manufacturers from overburdening and over-regulation. otherwise we'll be talking about european industry in the past tense. advances in 3d printing technology will allow us to bring back to europe a lot of the jobs that are currently being done by cheaper labour in the far east, so we should start thinking about investing more heavily in this technology. and i'll point out here that mobility is not the answer to unemployment. it may correct the statistics in the short term, because the unemployed will flock to the member states that offer jobs, but in the long term it will lead to the economic and demographic collapse of the poorer member states.
madam president, mr samaras, i believe in you, i believe in your presidency, i believe in the way you have stabilised greece, that you will hold the presidency of the european union in the same way. is there any greater symbolism than the handover between lithuania and greece? so all the symbolism of the european union is contained in those two countries, between the north and the south. that's what we want, we want a union equal, uniform, united. the european union is being tested all the time, the european union is facing challenges, but also the european union has shown solidarity when it comes to greece, and greece has shown resilience, which is very important. you have proven that greece survived as a member of the union, as a member of the eurozone, but at the same time we have proven that the european union works. however, the figure of 27% unemployment, the figure of 65% youth unemployment is still worrying, and perhaps alarming. i support the guidelines of your programme: growth, at least employment, enlargement of the economic and monetary union, mobility, borders. however, what particularly pleases me about your program is the promotion of maritime policies. since i come from croatia, also a maritime country, i am glad that you have put the emphasis on maritime policy and i believe that you will use this part and show what are the advantages of such a maritime country as greece with 13,500 km of borders and 2,500 islands.
written. croatia remembered the greek presidency of the eu 11 years ago, because one of the successes of this country's six-month work was the granting of candidate status to our country. from the starting sign to today and the new greek presidency, much has changed croatia has been a member of the eu for half a year, greece is emerging from its deepest crisis. the greek presidency coincides with the european elections, which brings with it a special responsibility for communication with citizens, but also relatively shortens the time in which it will be possible to adopt legislative acts. as a mediterranean national, i am particularly pleased that maritime policy, as well as migration and mobility of citizens within the eu and globally, have been highlighted as a priority of the presidency. the european union must do everything in its power to protect those who leave their country for economic, political or social reasons. finally, i would like to refer to the foreign policy objectives, notably the continuation of the ttip negotiations with the us, which need to place particular emphasis on visa reciprocity between the united states and eu member states. the eu is also preparing to open negotiations with croatia and montenegro at the beginning of the presidency. i wish greece and the eu as a whole a successful presidency and the implementation of the priorities set!
the greek presidency of the european union comes at an important moment for europe, which is entering an election year in which the european parliament, the european commission and the president of the european council are elected. the presidency is an opportunity to strengthen greece's credibility in the eu after a series of demanding reforms in consultation with international institutions. the intensity of european activities is also an opportunity for a new constructive encounter between the greek citizens and the european project. the priorities set out by president samaras to parliament are a logical choice of continued eu activities focused on: 1) growth, jobs, cohesion; 2) further eu-eurozone integration; 3) migration, borders and mobility. the greek decision to make all aspects of eu maritime policy a horizontal priority is of particular value. in this respect, i see a closeness to croatia, which is also oriented towards the sea and is striving to ensure that this orientation has the appropriate economic effects. the joint participation in the union for the mediterranean and the adriatic initiative guarantees engagement in the development of the eu strategy for the adriatic region. for the greek presidency in 2003, croatia applied for eu membership and enjoyed its considerable support in pacing the accession process. the thessaloniki agenda adopted at that time was important in determining the dynamics of the enlargement process. this year, enlargement is an important aspect of the presidency and i believe that a number of neighbouring countries in south east europe will make progress in bringing the eu closer to the institutions.
written. mr president, mr prime minister samaras, allow me to highlight in this brief overview two important criteria which will ultimately determine whether greece has, during its presidency, justified the trust of european citizens, or at least of the part of the citizens who elected me and the other social democrats to this high office, believing deeply in our values. first, take all possible measures to reduce unemployment in europe, and in particular to reduce youth unemployment! the unemployment numbers are a sword of damocles hanging over all of us. do everything you can to reduce this defeatist trend and ensure that as many people as possible have the right to work, the right to a decent wage and the right to a decent life. secondly, take a clear position that freedom of movement in europe must not be jeopardised. in particular, the freedom to choose freely a job, to study freely, to travel freely, to move and resettle. do not accept the artificial barriers, prejudices and shallow rhetoric of certain political circles that play on the shallow emotions of their fellow citizens and seek to undermine the cornerstone of the european project: unity without borders. i wish you a good and successful work, in the hope that you will achieve as many programming guidelines as you have set! thank you very much.
written. − any proposal that leads to a better and faster functioning of the european parliament should be supported. the same applies to this proposal, which provides for a clearer division of tasks and responsibilities between the various committees. all these changes should serve to make the european parliament more efficient, resulting in a faster and more efficient procedure. this proposal also relieves some committees which have so far dealt with matters that may not always have been entirely within their remit. for example, the committee on legal affairs dealt with various resolutions in the field of criminal law, based on the european convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, and these resolutions were often not written by lawyers, which greatly complicated the legislative process. i support the amendments of the european people's party, among which i would like to highlight those seeking to transfer the whole of the criminal law to the committee on legal affairs. i think it's going to add to the quality of the work itself. parliament is the only institution elected by the citizens and is their representative body, and therefore all the ep's component bodies must work in this interest, quickly and efficiently.
written. − i supported the adoption of the decision amending the powers and responsibilities of certain standing committees of the european parliament. the majority of the amendments are in line with the experience gained in practice in the work of the current parliamentary term. in the context of the preparation of this decision, i took part in the discussion concerning annex 7, i.e. the powers of the committee on budgets of which i am a member. i have argued that the committee on budgets should remain the parent committee for monitoring the work of the european investment bank. i base my position on months of work on the legislative proposal on european union guarantees to the european investment bank for loans in third countries. the final compromise that the economic and monetary policy committee will also monitor the euro area part of the european investment bank's activities is in line with the remit of commissioner rehn, who is responsible for these issues within the european commission and conducts a regular dialogue with the competent committee of parliament.
written. − i welcome the acceptance of the recommendation on the proposal of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs to decommission the specific programme 'prevention, preparedness and consequence management of terrorism and other security-related risks' as part of the general programme on security and safeguarding freedoms for the period 2007-2013. in this context, i stress the need to consider security measures in the fight against terrorism for the next period and to propose them as soon as possible to this body in the event of terrorist attacks in the western balkans and the whole of the european union, in order to protect and ensure the security of all its inhabitants.
written. − i supported the decision to repeal the council decision establishing the specific programme 'prevention, preparedness and consequence management of terrorism and other security-related risks' as part of the general programme on security and safeguarding freedoms for the period 2007-2013. that programme has been replaced by the eu internal security fund for the period 2014-2020 and will continue to finance preparedness for and protection of people and critical infrastructure from terrorist attacks and other security incidents.
written. − i welcome the council's decision to repeal decision 2007/124/ec, euratom establishing the specific programme 'prevention, preparedness and consequence management of terrorism and other security-related risks' as part of the general programme on security and defence of freedoms. that programme was established for the period 2007 to 2013 with the aim of preventing, preparing and protecting people and infrastructure against terrorist attacks and other security incidents. that programme was adopted on the basis of two legal bases and therefore a specific act, namely this council decision, is required in order to be repealed. because it is a necessary and high-quality programme, whose existence is necessary in the future because of the current world situation. the programme will be replaced by the establishment of an internal security fund, which will allow for the financing of further actions aimed at preventing organised crime, terrorism, protecting people and infrastructure, access to information. it is necessary that it enter into force, which will coincide with the revocation of the previous programme.
written. − under the comprehensive internal security fund, the financial support instrument for police cooperation, crime prevention and repression and crisis management will provide financial support for police cooperation, information exchange, access to information, crime prevention and the fight against cross-border and organised crime and serious crime (including terrorism), the protection of people and critical infrastructure from security threats and the effective management of security threats and crises. therefore, the specific cips programme for the provision of financial support to that policy area under the multiannual framework 2007-2013 should be terminated, in accordance with the transitional rules. i therefore voted in favour of this proposal.
written. − the republic of croatia as a new member of the european union supports the view that relations with the russian federation should develop in a positive direction and that this initiative to renew the agreement should be supported, given that russia is a potential partner of the republic of croatia in political and economic terms, as well as in scientific and technological terms. on the energy policy issue, croatia and russia failed to reach an agreement during the centre-right government in the last government of the republic of croatia, and we hope that now as an eu member we will be able to reconcile common goals and interests and resume talks on all issues, especially on energy, as well as to resume cooperation in all other relevant areas of common interest - tourism, economy, science, education and culture.
written. − i welcome the emphasis on the need to renew cooperation at the scientific and technological level. the parties shall cooperate in the development of a comprehensive and effective system of cooperation in the field of nuclear safety and security, including in the field of nuclear safety and security. croatia has long recognized the importance of such cooperation, and thus ties between russian and croatian scientists have a long tradition dating back to the 17th century. strengthening contacts between russia and croatia in the field of education is very topical today and takes place in the most diverse areas, so in november 2007 in moscow, an agreement on cooperation between the moscow state university "lomonosov" and the university of zagreb was signed. the union and the republic of moldova shall cooperate in the implementation of the union's policy on the protection of the environment and sustainable development. any cooperation that focuses on science and technology should be encouraged, and i therefore support this report, which has already been adopted by the committee responsible under a simplified procedure.
written. − science and technology are one of the most dynamic economic sectors and as such create a need for cooperation between the european union and russia. the parties shall cooperate in the development of the union's energy policy and in the implementation of the union's energy policy. the renewal of the eu-russia agreement on cooperation in science and technology for the next five years can have a significant impact on the competitiveness of the eu and russian economies, as well as on the improvement of bilateral relations itself. the signing of this agreement is also significant in the context of the ongoing negotiations on the eu-russia visa facilitation agreement. the simplified visa procedure will have a positive impact on research and science mobility and will allow for the more efficient implementation of this agreement. it will also contribute to the wider objective of stronger political, economic and cultural ties between the eu and russia. that's why i supported this proposal.
written. − as no risks have been identified in the control systems, i consider the decision to renew the agreement to be positive because it allows both parties to continue to improve and strengthen their cooperation in the areas of science and technology. russia and croatia have traditionally had good and constructive relations based on pragmatism and mutual respect for interests, and with this agreement we are only enhancing cooperation in the future. in recent years, russian-croatian trade has been around $1.5 billion a year, making russia one of croatia's top five foreign trade partners. i hope that this agreement will be reflected in concrete activities and the creation of more favourable conditions for bilateral relations between croatia and russia in the field of science and technology, primarily in the interest of the croatian economy and population.
written. - i support this initiative because science and technology are the basis of the reindustrialisation of the european union, which is of particular importance for the future of this community. strengthening bilateral relations with russia in these areas will strengthen europe's position and i hope to open up further chapters of cooperation with one of the most influential countries in the world. i am pleased that the rapporteur also recognises this possibility, stating that the renewal of this agreement will give the necessary impetus to the conclusion of a visa facilitation agreement between the eu and russia. as a representative from croatia, i am looking forward to such good news because my country as a well-known tourist destination would benefit quite a bit from the greater influx of russian tourists that we could expect after the conclusion of the agreement.
written. - i support the report on the apopens and the technical parameters of euro coins intended for circulation. the ecb's proposals call for new security features to reduce the counterfeiting rate of euro coins. the use of a technology whereby the one and two euro denominations are produced in three layers (change of the thickness of the coins) and two different colours are added is intended to achieve the most efficient protection against counterfeiting. however, when changing the technical specifications of coins for the purpose of anti-counterfeiting, representatives of the vending machine industry and associations for the blind and visually impaired should be consulted to ensure that the changeover to the new coins is smooth. the single european currency system should help to prevent counterfeiting of euro coins by applying new technologies. in view of the significant number of attempts to counterfeit euro coins and banknotes, i support the european central bank's initiative to innovate to prevent the counterfeiting of not only coins but also euro banknotes. i support the preparations and initiatives of the croatian national bank to help citizens and people who handle money on a daily basis by educating them in detecting counterfeit banknotes and coins of the kuna and other currencies and preventing the circulation of such money.
written. − the main reason why i support the recommendation on the denominations and technical parameters of euro coins intended for circulation is that the single coinage system of the union should first of all help to prevent counterfeiting and, among other things, to win the trust of citizens by introducing technological innovations that guarantee the security and efficiency of the single coinage system of the union. as regards the legal aspect of the draft legislative resolution which considered the question of codification of unchanged provisions of earlier acts, which in this proposal are reduced to a simple codification of existing acts without changing their content, the same is in line with and takes into account the interinstitutional agreement of 28 november 2001 on a more systematic method for the adoption of legal acts. the amendment proposal in question is therefore, in accordance with rule 87 (3), which takes account of the provisions of rules 156 and 157 of the rules of procedure, fully consistent with the rule that amendments will be admissible only if they relate to those parts of the proposal which contain the amendments.
written. − i support the adoption of an amended version of the report on the denominations and technical parameters of euro coins intended for circulation. in the spirit of this report, i welcome the commission's initiative to codify and revise the legal acts of the european union in order to reduce the volume of acquis and to improve the accessibility and clarity of eu legislation. furthermore, i welcome the european commission's move to include the european central bank's requirements relating to the technical specifications of euro coins in the proposal for a regulation. in particular, the replacement of the indicative values of the thickness of the euro coins with the real values will be carried out at the request of the ecb, thereby bringing the real values finally into line with the reference values held by the euro mines.
written. − i supported this proposal as it does not contain any substantial changes, and as the proposal to codify the unchanged provisions of earlier acts by these changes amounts to a simple codification of existing acts without changing their content.
written. - i believe that a single coinage system is very important, as we are aware of the risks of counterfeiting which undermine public confidence. although this proposal for a council regulation on denominations and technical parameters of coins intended for circulation does not contain significant changes concerning the denominations and technical parameters of euro coins, its technological innovations contribute to the increase of security, reliability and efficiency of the circulation of coins. i welcome the inclusion of the european central bank's request in the proposal for a regulation on the technical specifications of euro coins.
written. − i voted in favour of the amended version of the proposal for a council regulation on the denominations and technical parameters of euro coins intended for circulation, as this proposal, in the opinion of the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission, does not contain any substantive changes other than those recognised as such in the proposal, and as the proposal, as regards the codification of the unchanged provisions of earlier acts by these amendments, amounts to a mere codification of existing acts without amending their content.
written. − asean is currently one of the most important growing regional organisations in the world, both in terms of economic development and in terms of geopolitical dynamics, which aims to create an internal market for 600 million people by 2015 and with its competitive economic players and rapidly growing domestic demand to be comparable to other major world markets such as the eu, the us, china, japan and india. the eu and asean share common political and economic interests and their further development should be a priority. the eu shares the political objective of promoting prosperity, cooperation and peace and wants asean's institutional, economic and political capacity to be further developed. several important steps need to be taken in eu-asean relations. the development of a new and comprehensive strategy for south-east asia and the accelerated ratification of existing partnership and cooperation agreements are of great importance in recognising the importance of this relationship. the republic of croatia is a net importer in its trade relations with the asean member states. the eu unilaterally grants trade preferences to developing and least developed countries and allows for tariff reductions. the establishment of more systematic and better quality cooperation with asean member states at the level of the european union would also have a positive impact on the republic of croatia's trade relations with this regional organisation and i therefore support this report.
written. - the eu and asean countries share many similar features in their history. both associations were founded in the middle of the last century with the aim of economic, social and cultural development and the preservation of peace and stability. as asean countries collectively make up the world's eighth largest economy, the eu must not forget its partnership with this part of the world if it is to play a significant role on the global stage. moreover, the cooperation between these two associations should further promote mutual interest. in addition to the economic dimension of cooperation, the eu should foster further cooperation on respect for human rights, with particular emphasis on poverty reduction and raising the social standards of the people of asean countries. although the population of asean countries is larger than that of the eu (asean about 600 and the eu about 500 million), the european union has almost 8 times the combined gdp. the european union can use its experience to help these countries further develop and safeguard human rights, but this can only be done if these two associations cooperate more closely. this is why i support this report, which calls for greater cooperation in all dimensions of relations and the particular emphasis it places on the importance of protecting human rights.
written. - i supported the report by mr bütikofer on the 'future of eu-asean relations'. asean encompasses 10 countries in southeast asia, which, with its 600 million people, is the eu's third largest trading partner outside europe after the us and china. the eu is the largest investor in asean countries with over 9 billion euros a year. asean members have shown outstanding progress in strengthening political and security dialogue, economic and trade exchanges and cultural cooperation. i believe that the eu should continue to take measures to contribute to the eradication of poverty in individual asean members, to the strengthening of human rights and dialogue, and to the protection of the environment and migration flows. the eu's support in the context of disaster and crisis management is also an important component of cooperation.
written. − the association of southeast asian nations is currently one of the most important growing regional organisations in the world, both in terms of economic development and geopolitical dynamics. this economic community has set itself the goal of creating an internal market of as many as 600 million people by 2015. this indicates the importance of developing bilateral eu-asean relations. i supported this report because i believe that the european union and all member states must work towards a coordinated and coherent approach to the asean region and thus enable the eu to develop a stronger economic and political presence in the region. i also agree with the rapporteur's finding that asean, as an important regional and global economic actor, can and does play an important role in promoting a peaceful and multilateral world order. in particular, i welcome the proposal to establish a working group on the implementation of the declaration on the conduct of parties in the south china sea seeking a peaceful and mutually beneficial solution to the maritime boundary dispute and to declare asean a nuclear-weapon-free zone, thus further contributing to the alleviation of geopolitical regional tensions.
written. - the fact that asean is currently one of the most important growing regional organisations in the world in terms of economic development and geopolitical dynamics. the european union and asean share the political objective of promoting prosperity and peace in their respective regions around the world and i fully support their cooperation, in particular in cultural, development and scientific cooperation and cooperation in the field of anti-corruption. i also believe that intercultural student and research cooperation between eu and asean higher education institutions would contribute to the development of new research and innovation and enable the opening up of a market of approximately 600 million people by 2015.
written. − as the eu and asean share common political and economic interests and their further development should be a priority in the pursuit of a future strategic partnership, it voted in favour of this proposal. the association of southeast asian nations is currently one of the most important emerging regional organizations in the world in terms of economic growth and geopolitical dynamics. asean's goal is to create a single market for 600 million people by 2015, when it will be comparable to other major world markets. i believe that the eu and the member states should work towards a common and coordinated approach to the asean region and thus enable the eu to develop a stronger economic and political presence in the region. the eu should strengthen its assistance and cooperation in the fight against corruption by promoting the ratification and implementation of the un convention against corruption. it is important to emphasise that in a time of uncertainty around the world, asia pacific leaders should leverage their partnerships and strategic combinations to promote stability and growth.
i strongly support the proposed regulation because it is intended to ensure that social standards are better respected and because it is intended to make fraud more difficult. finally, this will lead to the harmonization of certain social provisions in the field of road transport, in particular for professional drivers, thus controlling compliance with the rules on driving times and rest periods, in order to ensure road safety and decent working conditions. the introduction of the smart tachograph will be a tool to reduce administrative burdens and will help to improve the implementation of legislation with tachograph obligations for legitimate transport undertakings, thus imposing very clear obligations and responsibilities in case of infringement.
mr. chairman, i support the resolution that calls for changes to the existing 1985 tachographs, which would reduce the administrative burden considerably with the help of new technologies, and the introduction of new regulations, which would curb possible fraud. the introduction of new smart tachographs significantly reduces the burden associated with tachographs that are needed by transport undertakings, but also those intended for short-term and long-term use. changes to be introduced by the use of new tachographs, including the absence of errors in the case of sending penalties to the driver and the company, new regulations on data recording, as well as warnings and display of information to the driver. i support the decision of the european parliament and the council to allow a period of 36 months for the introduction of new tachographs on the market, and therefore i support all new technologies and innovations and therefore this resolution which will enable a number of new projects.
mr. president, no matter how much we invest in road infrastructure and the automotive industry, road safety still remains compromised by the human factor of driving. driver fatigue is often the cause of fatal road accidents with permanent disability or, in the most severe cases, death. the material damage that occurs in such cases is only collateral damage. in order to influence this human factor, we need to adopt regulations on the working conditions of professional drivers in a responsible manner, which certainly implies the application of new technologies in the system of monitoring the working time of professional drivers. i therefore welcome the report by rapporteur ţicău which modernises the outdated control system in a modern, acceptable, financially acceptable, efficient way while respecting the principles of privacy and data protection.
mr president, i support the report by mrs ticau on tachographs and social legislation in road transport, which aims to reduce operating costs and prevent fraud by introducing new technologies. six million trucks and buses are fitted with tachographs within the european union, and it is estimated that a quarter of the vehicles are in breach of current rules and legislation. the commission has therefore proposed a revision of the tachograph regulation to reduce the administrative burden on companies through the use of new technologies and to save €500 million per year. the introduction of smart tachographs will also make satellite tracking possible, making vehicle control much easier. croatia introduced digital tachographs in 2009, and this year we passed the law on working time, mandatory mobile workers' committees and road traffic recorders, which fully aligned our legislation with the eu. i believe that this report will also help croatian transport companies and allow better control of fraud for the use of tachographs.
written. - this regulation aims at improving road safety. it is estimated that each year, some 800,000 people worldwide die in traffic accidents. it is also estimated that by the year 2020, road accidents will kill between 1 million and 1.3 million people each year, making them the sixth leading cause of death. the most important innovation concerns the introduction of 'smart' tachographs. they automatically record the location of the vehicle and allow remote communication for control purposes. this is a check on drivers in terms of compliance with regulations, but it is also a benefit in terms of respect for workers' rights. accidents are often caused by driver fatigue caused by driving too long to meet the demands of their employers. i welcome the adoption of this regulation because it makes it harder to break the rules and increases social rights by putting new technologies to full use.
written. − regulations and regulations, especially those relating to human and road safety, must keep pace with the increasingly intensive technological progress in order to implement them as efficiently as possible. the proposal for this legislative resolution also deserves support for its clear call that the implementation of the smart tachometer obligation must be affordable and must not at any time be abused by the supervisory authorities the compromise insisted on by the european parliament during the negotiations with the council, thus reaffirming its important role in protecting the interests of european citizens in terms of data protection and privacy. the republic of croatia introduced the obligation to install digital tachometers as early as 2009 (5 years before joining the european union), after which no increase in costs was recorded for economic operators engaged in road transport, while on the other hand it became impossible to make extra profits on the exploitation of drivers. in this respect, the obligation to install the next generation of smart tachometers within a reasonable timeframe and at an acceptable cost can only have a positive impact on the control of road safety and road traffic legality.
written. - i supported this report. it is important to strengthen the implementation of existing laws to ensure effective and uniform implementation of legislation on driver working hours and rest periods. this is important for the safety of passengers, but also for the protection of rights and the creation of decent working conditions for drivers. it also protects companies from unfair competition in the transport industry. the introduction of 'smart' tachographs to ensure more efficient and cost-effective enforcement of legislation is certainly a step forward. this is a system that will make it easier to detect manipulation and fraud. however, it should be considered that the introduction of remote control communication for better control and recording of location data also brings its own risks, such as data protection. it is good that parliament's position was adopted after the first reading and that an entire chapter of the proposal is now devoted to data security.
written. - this report is a typical example of the added value that the union can bring to the member states without compromising the principle of subsidiarity and has therefore received my support. in adopting this report, parliament supported the introduction of smart tachographs, which have proven to be more efficient and cheaper than the current alternatives. i support the idea of a smart tachograph because i believe that the concept of remote communication and recording will be more effective in combating fraud and will reduce the administrative burden on member states through automation. i regard the report as a positive step towards improving road safety and a better basis for compliance by all professional drivers, which will ultimately result in fairer competition between transport companies.
mr president, the reason why i support this report is the better integration of social and societal issues as the basic criteria in the award procedure of concessions aimed at working conditions, the protection of the health of staff, the promotion of the social integration of disadvantaged persons or members of vulnerable groups, including accessibility for persons with disabilities. technical and functional conditions defining the characteristics of the works or services covered by the concession and which must comply with the principles of equal treatment and transparency. i also support the application of the above factors to subcontractors and the right of member states to introduce strict liability rules. it is important to support the proposal that concessions should not be granted to economic operators involved in the exploitation of trafficking in human beings and child labour, corruption and money laundering, and non-payment of taxes and social security contributions, which should be sanctioned by mandatory exclusion at union level.
mr president, i supported this proposal and i believe that this directive is necessary to finally regulate this area where manipulation and abuse of power are very common. i welcome the simplification of the rules on contract valuation and the more flexible approach to bidders as this will facilitate the concession award process. but flexibility is a double-edged sword and often opens up the door to manipulation, so i am extremely pleased that the directive gives the right to the contracting authority to set the criteria for the quality of services to which the concessionaire will be subject. in this way, we will protect the public interest and ensure the future quality of services for our citizens. i consider this provision to be the most important part of the directive because the granting of a concession to a private economic operator must be driven by the ambition to improve the quality of service, and not exclusively by financial calculation and the desire to correct errors and correct the results of a bad fiscal policy, as in the case of the announced monetisation of croatian roads.
mr president, i voted in favour of this resolution as there are no rules at union level which clearly govern the conclusion and award of concession contracts. it was necessary to adopt a legal framework within which both businesses and citizens would have access to the european union market and would not be deprived of important business opportunities. this legal framework should be flexible and in line with the fundamental principles of the european union such as legal certainty, solidarity, equality and transparency. but i'm aware of how sensitive these issues are, since there's also the possibility of giving national assets into concessions. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the amount of the compensation for the costs of the concession contracts. since there is always a problem of interpretation of adopted legal rules, in which the european court of justice ultimately plays a major role, it is necessary to establish detailed and clear rules that will prevent any kind of manipulation.
mr president, i support the report by mr philippe juvina on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the award of concession contracts. the commission's proposal is to revise the existing 2004 directive in order to make the award of concession contracts easier, to take account of the interests of public authorities and economic operators, and to make this specific instrument of awarding concessions more effective for those who are most important, namely the public interest, in the context of the public procurement package we discussed yesterday. in this respect, i consider that this proposal ensures that operators participate on an equal footing in the concession contracts market and thus avoids any favouritism or lack of transparency at the level of the single market of the european union.
written. − the award of concession contracts is based on general legal principles deriving from the treaty on the functioning of the european union such as transparency, equality and free competition. these contracts are only partly regulated by the secondary law of the european union on public procurement. the commission has also concluded that the aid granted to the beneficiaries of the aid is compatible with the internal market. legal uncertainty leads to conflict situations in the european market, which is conducive to corruption and bias. this means that eu citizens will not be able to get the best possible quality of services at their price. as the most important positive change linked to this directive, i would like to emphasise the binding social, labour and environmental conditions and respect for collective agreements advocated by the group of the socialists and democrats in the european parliament. this item encourages all actors in the process to maintain and respect commitments in the areas of environmental, social and labour standards based on union standards, national standards and collective agreements and relevant international agreements. finally, i support this proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the award of concession contracts and consider that this proposal is a step towards the eu2020 strategy which will achieve important objectives in the areas of employment, productivity and cohesion.
written. − the absence of clearly defined rules at union level governing the award of concession contracts leads to obstacles to the free provision of services and causes disturbances in the functioning of the market within the union. this report adopts an appropriate, balanced and flexible legal framework for the award of concessions within which companies and citizens have access to the european union market and compete on an equal footing without any favouritism or lack of transparency. the public authorities are expected to be flexible and the rules of the legislative framework applicable to the award of concessions should be clear and simple and should not create excessive amounts of red tape. in the croatian concession register, the main revenue is generated from the fees for concessions in public telecommunications and radio frequencies and gas exploitation. at the same time, the largest number of contracts are in healthcare, followed by mining, marine and water use. water is extremely important for croatia. the final text of this report excludes the water sector and provides for the exclusion of gambling, which involves the financial risk of investing money in gambling, civil protection and emergency services, which should be separated from the patient transport service. i voted in favour of this report because it introduces a systematic approach to the concession award procedure and ensures a level playing field at union level for all participants.
written. - i support the report of the rapporteur juvina on the proposal for a directive on the award of concession contracts. this directive allows for greater fairness and legal certainty in the award of concessions, thereby stimulating competition in the eu single market and creating favourable conditions for investment. i also welcome greater transparency in concession award procedures to prevent any favouring of tenderers in public tenders. the award of a concession should be a clear and simple procedure that should not create additional red tape. the opening of the eu single market to croatia is expected to increase the number of concessions granted in the territory of the czech republic. the commission should also be able to request the member states to provide information on the implementation of this directive. the alignment of national legislation to this directive will certainly contribute to increasing the competitiveness of all eu countries in the internal and global market.
written. - concessions, as contracts between the public and mainly private sectors, are a specific form of public procurement. there is very little guidance at european level when it comes to concessions, and given that this is a delicate area that in many countries where the rule of law is still not at its highest, is vulnerable to corruption and malpractice. i voted in favour of this report precisely because it proposes the adoption of general guidelines to increase transparency in the conclusion of concession contracts, but in a way that does not go into details or impose strict and inflexible legislation, but that it is up to the member states to regulate this area in detail, thus preserving the principle of subsidiarity. the report mainly seeks guidance such as a more precise definition of concession contracts, but does not go into the decisions of the member states to whom to award concessions or for which services.
written. − the absence of clear rules at union level governing the award of concession contracts leads to legal uncertainty and obstacles to the free provision of services and causes disturbances in the functioning of the internal market. the commission should be able to impose a maximum amount of eur 500000 per year on the concession holder, subject to the conditions laid down in this regulation. such a legal framework could be the basis and means for further opening up international public procurement markets and stimulating world trade. i voted in favour of this proposal because the concession award directive aims to achieve a uniform application of the treaty principles in all member states at local and union level. in order to ensure that the union's financial contribution towards the union's budget is limited to the minimum necessary, the commission should be able to grant financial assistance to the beneficiaries of the aid.
mr. president, i voted for this bill because i support the goal it seeks to achieve, which is efficiency and timeliness in public procurement. that's what this reform is getting at, which is asking for flexibility in the existing rules. what's the matter, man? so, as my colleague said before, the lowest bidder can't be the only criteria. this leads to bad solutions and i therefore welcome the desire to use new techniques and procurement tools. i believe that public procurement is a mirror of the discipline of the whole system and that is why, as in all countries and in croatia, the principles of transparency, market competition, equal treatment, non-discrimination must be followed. in order to comply with those rules or principles, public procurement of procurement plans, public publication of the register and of contracts and agreements concluded are necessary. it should be mentioned that the eu's public procurement market is worth eur 1800 billion, making it the largest public procurement market in the world. i am therefore in favour of aligning legislation with the acquis and finally having a fair (the president interrupted the member)
mr president, public procurement is an important segment of any economy because it allows for the rational and efficient spending of budgetary resources and contributes to legal certainty and the fight against corruption. in the republic of croatia in 2012, the total value of public procurement was hrk 39,3 billion, which is 11,9% of the gross domestic product and shows how important this system is. i therefore support further reform of public procurement procedures aimed at increasing flexibility and transparency and increasing the use of new procurement techniques such as joint procurement and e-procurement. i particularly support encouraging a stronger participation of smes in public procurement procedures, which is particularly important for the republic of croatia because a large part of our entrepreneurs are in the category of smes, and i support the introduction of electronic public procurement as a single rule, and what i have to commend is that in the republic of croatia this has already been introduced.
written. - knowing how sensitive european taxpayers are to spending budgetary resources on public procurement, we must be aware of the political importance of this issue. in times of economic crisis, public procurement can serve as a lever for economic growth by promoting innovation and setting quality standards. this directive simplifies the rules and increases their efficiency and effectiveness. the new provisions allowing the grouping of suppliers and the division of jobs into several are very important for croatia, as they increase the prospects of small and medium-sized enterprises. new selection criteria based on quality, longevity and sustainability, rather than just the lowest price, are introduced. if the tender is the result of exploitation of workers, non-compliance with collective agreements and environmental pollution, or if it does not meet other social, labour and environmental requirements, the contracting authority will have to reject an unreasonably low tender, in other words, there is a strong emphasis on the social component of public procurement and for these reasons i support this proposal.
written. − i am very pleased with the adoption of this report as i fully support the adoption of new rules on the public procurement procedure and the award of concession contracts as this will allow fair competition and avoid social dumping. the commission notes that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence. the introduction of social criteria and mandatory rules relating to the transparency and effectiveness of public procurement procedures is also of particular importance. i also support the application of the above factors to subcontractors, as it is particularly important to identify clear responsibilities when involving several subcontractors in a given project. the new rules relating to the protection of social as well as environmental issues in the management of certain services of general interest such as electricity, transport or gas are also of key importance. public services must be available to all at reasonable prices.
written. - the european union has the largest public procurement market in the world. as members of the european parliament, we are in a position to be responsible for a system whose consumption is greater than the gdp of the sixth largest economy in the world! such a system must be used wisely to achieve the strategic objectives of europe 2020. this directive encourages the public procurement system of each member state to ensure economic and efficient procedures and the rational use of taxpayers' money, and i therefore support the adoption of this report. i support the position of the directive that the concept of 'lowest price' should not be used as a tendering criterion but rather that of 'most economically advantageous tender'. the commission will also continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, including the countries of the former soviet union, in order to ensure that the union's macro-financial assistance is consistent with the union's macro-financial assistance. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a regulation on the european parliament and council amending regulation (ec) no 1049/2001 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data by the community institutions and bodies and on the free movement of such data.
written. - i supported this report on modernising the public procurement process. i agree with the rapporteur that there is a need to adopt a regulation to ensure a faster, simpler and more efficient public procurement process. in croatia, public procurement accounts for 12% of gdp, which speaks to the importance of this process for businesses. the commission has also received comments from the croatian authorities, which have not provided any evidence that the measures in question are necessary to ensure the proper functioning of the internal market. i also agree with the rapporteur that the 'cheapest bidder' philosophy should be abandoned and replaced by the most economically advantageous practice, taking into account, apart from price and social criteria, criteria of sustainable development and environmental protection. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the airport operator would have been able to obtain the compensation for the services provided by the airport. the report also highlights the proposal to introduce e-procurement in all member states, which would make this process more transparent, efficient and simple.
mr president, i also supported this directive because it has the task of striking a balance between simplifying regulations and effective procedures with regard to innovative, sustainable award criteria. this directive ensures a higher participation rate of smes and the creation of a wider use and procurement, which is significant given that public procurement, with almost 18% of the gdp of the european union, is a significant part of the economy. i support the concept of the most economically advantageous tender which, in addition to the lowest price, involves meeting certain specific needs of the contracting authority and strategic social aspects such as social labour rights, working conditions, environmental criteria, access to employment for the unemployed, young people and women. i believe that this directive promotes values, as was the case with the previous directive, transparency, a principled stance against corruption and the advancement of social and human rights, while protecting economic operators.
written. - public procurement accounts for around 19% of the european union's gdp, making it a powerful tool in achieving certain social objectives. the modernisation of current public procurement standards aims at increasing the efficiency of public spending, simplifying standards for easier and equal access and fair participation of smes in public procurement. the commission should also be able to provide information on the implementation of the union's budget. the main criterion for selecting tenders should no longer be the lowest price but the most economically advantageous tender in order to contribute to better economic and social conditions. the public authorities will benefit from this directive by having more freedom to choose the offers that are most suitable to them, those that best suit their purpose. i support the initiative to simplify the tendering procedure for small and medium-sized enterprises. the commission notes that the contested measure is not limited to the provision of a service of general economic interest, but also to the provision of a service of general economic interest. in conclusion, i would like to highlight the implementation of union values as the main objective of this directive, which each member state should respect, such as: transparency, the fight against corruption, equality and the enforcement of social and human rights, which should be promoted in the area of procurement.
written. − i voted for changes to public procurement procedures in this sector as they help to stimulate investment while ensuring respect for social and environmental obligations, promoting innovation and quality and the efficient use of public funds. the adoption of clear rules at union level provides for greater legal certainty and in particular facilitates equal access and fair participation of small and medium-sized enterprises in the award of concession contracts.
written. − i support the adoption of the report on the directive on the procurement by entities operating in the water, energy, transport and postal services sectors. i agree with the rapporteur that it is necessary to increase the efficiency of public spending and to encourage operators to use public procurement to promote the strategic objectives of the european union. this directive supports the involvement of small and medium-sized enterprises in public procurement in the water, transport, energy and postal sectors. i believe that transparency and traceability in public procurement decision-making are key to all the provisions of the directive. i also believe that the new package of directives on public procurement and concessions will increase the level of legal certainty and thus provide a more fertile ground for investment in eu countries. it is important to note that 27% of the value of public procurement in croatia relates to entities in the water, transport, energy and postal sectors, and i therefore welcome this proposal for a directive which will be of importance for the croatian public sector.
written. − i supported this report which proposes a regulation on public procurement by entities operating in the water, energy and transport sectors and the postal services sector. the regulatory reform in the public procurement sector is important in order to achieve a higher degree of transparency and to facilitate the process for smes. the establishment of e-procurement as a general rule in all member states is a positive thing that will lead to a more efficient, simpler and modern public procurement system in the water, energy and transport sectors and in the postal services sector. i particularly support the rapporteur's view that we should be wary of abnormally low bids which could signal unfair competition through tax avoidance or violation of workers' rights.
written. − i voted in favour of this directive because the existing public procurement rules adopted under directive 2004/17/ec of the european parliament and of the council of 31 march 2004 should be revised and improved in order to increase the efficiency of public consumption, ensure value for money, facilitate equal access and fair participation of smes and artisans in public procurement, both at local and union level, and to enable suppliers to make better use of public procurement in achieving sustainable production and consumption. in order to ensure competition in the procurement of entities operating in the water, energy, transport and postal services sectors, it is necessary to lay down rules for the harmonisation of procurement procedures with regard to contracts above a certain value. such harmonisation is necessary to ensure the effectiveness of the principles of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, the principle of equal treatment, non-discrimination, mutual recognition, proportionality and transparency. in order to ensure uniform conditions for the award of contracts, the contracting authorities should be able to agree on the conditions for the award of contracts, including the conditions for the award of contracts.
mr president, in the context of this problem, i think it is necessary to stress the importance of increasing the union's own negotiating power, based on its own primary and secondary law, with a view to improving access to the public markets of third countries. the same is in line with the provisions of the treaty on the functioning of the european union which set out uniform principles as the basis of the common commercial policy. it results from the closure of the markets of third countries caused by the economic crisis and the adoption of protectionist policies by them, which places union economic operators at a disadvantage by confronting restrictive practices in the procurement sector in many countries that are trading partners of the european union. these restrictive practices are causing a substantial loss of trade opportunities, in sectors of particular importance to the union itself, which in any event is one of the key reasons for the need to respond to this issue.
mr president, i would like to say that i voted in favour of this resolution, because public procurement is an extremely important factor in the economy of each country and of the european union, which promotes the integration of all countries into the common economy, including those of the european union's trading partners. this directive will strengthen and simplify public cooperation. for the first time, the legislator will publicly define public cooperation and will set up a contract between public authorities and certain entities. it is very important to me that smaller companies have access to the public procurement market. there will be new award criteria, a simpler system, greater security of procedures and simplification of the electronic procedure as well. however, the final step is for the member states to implement this directive into national legislation.
mr president, public procurement procedures are a waste of public money, the money of the taxpayers of the member states, and of the european union as a whole. the analysis shows that the eu market is much more open to third country bidders than their markets and openness to european bidders. the european market is 85% open to third-country bidders, i.e. 85% of public procurement procedures in the european union are open to third-country bidders, i.e. eur 352 billion, whereas, for example, the us market is 32% open, i.e. eur 178 billion, and japan's market is 23% open, i.e. eur 27 billion. this regulation introduces the possibility of restricting the inclusion of third-country tenderers in public procurement procedures in cases where those countries restrict access to their market to tenderers from the european union and where european standards of work in those countries are not met (the president took the floor).
mr president, i also supported the report by mr caspary on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on access for goods and services from third countries to the internal market for public procurement in the union and on those procedures which contribute to negotiations on access for goods and services from the union to the public procurement markets of third countries. i believe that the aim of this report is to improve the opportunities and develop a wider network of markets and tenderers from the european union, but also from third countries. the key to this is that the eu's public procurement market is open, with as much as 85% of these tenders open to non-eu companies, and our main partners are significantly smaller. we are offering a 352 billion euro market in this way. i believe that in our negotiations on agreements, especially on free trade, with third countries, we must take account of our economic interests and also give the local authorities the possibility to exclude those bidders who do not have reciprocity.
written. − promoting free markets is one of the fundamental pillars on which the european union rests. over the past decade, we have succeeded in opening the eu's single market to all those who contribute to the prosperity of our citizens through their investments. but in times of austerity, we face a situation where some countries are restricting their markets in favor of domestic companies. such an environment does not contribute to the healthy development of the european union's trade relations with these countries, constrains the market and delays the recovery from the economic crisis. by introducing the principle of reciprocity in the process of preparing european regulations on access to public procurement markets in the european union, we can ensure a kind of advantage for european companies wishing to compete on the public procurement markets of third countries. but on the other hand, it should be clear to our partners that these regulations have as their ultimate goal the improvement of trade relations. they shall endeavour to ensure a level playing field in public procurement markets. in the long run, less political regulation in market games should be the goal we strive for. at this point we also need to be aware that politics must take responsibility and set equal playing field for all players until they recognize mutual benefit from the free market.
written. - any quality relationship, including a trading relationship, must be based on some kind of balance of values between the parties involved. the efforts to remove barriers to european investment and to the participation of european companies in public procurement in third countries for which no such barriers exist on the eu market are commendable. at the same time, bearing in mind the union's commitment to the protection of human rights and social justice, amendments in the form of articles 5a and 24a calling for compliance with environmental, social and labour legislation of third countries as well as with european union legislation, which are among the most progressive in the world in those legal categories, should be particularly commended. as a leading economic power, by acting together, the union is thus opening up markets to a large number of small, medium and large enterprises from smaller member states such as croatia, which have hitherto had difficult or impossible access to them. in this sense, any initiative that would open up new business opportunities for croatian entrepreneurs in areas such as construction, electricity industry, etc., provided that high standards of labour rights and environmental protection are respected, and in conditions of economic crisis, should be supported.
written. − i welcome the efforts of the rapporteur to bridge the gap between opponents and supporters of the commission's 2012 proposal on restricting access to the eu public procurement market by third countries. i consider the rapporteur's note to be of high quality, suggesting that the commission closely monitor the impact of the regulation once it has entered into force and amend it accordingly. i agree with the finding that national and regional provisions vary in different member states and that in order to prevent distortions of the internal market, it should be made clear that member states or their contracting authorities may not restrict access to goods and services from third countries in any way other than as set out in this regulation. however, i believe that the implementation of the commission's proposal in practice could potentially have far-reaching negative consequences on market access and harm the market's growth potential. so i abstained in the vote.
mr. president, honey as a food product has a distinctive production cycle. each of the production steps in that chain must be clearly regulated so that the final consumer is aware of the characteristics of the final product. regardless of whether we define pollen as an ingredient of honey or otherwise, it is of the utmost importance to give the final consumer the possibility to choose by clearly indicating the presence of gmo ingredients if the honey-bearing hives have been grazing in the gmo field. clear national control of such producers allows the boundaries of the gmo field to be clearly defined and the origin of the honey, i.e. the possibility of the presence of a gmo substance in such a product, to be controlled in a logistically simple and at the same time reliable way.
mr. president, citizens have a right to know what they are consuming and in that sense the european court of justice in the bablok case says that honey containing pollen from genetically modified substances needs special marketing authorization. the commission has also concluded that the use of gmos in honey is not a justified and proportionate measure to address the concerns of the union industry. i cannot support this for the sake of the 12 000 beekeepers in croatia, but also for the sake of those across the european union, because the result of such a directive would be the beginning of the end for them. there are between 10 000 and 12 000 beekeepers in croatia and in the last fifteen years the number of hives has increased from 150 000 to 550 000, and croatia now exports some 2 000 tonnes of honey. we want to keep it that way, and if a product contains genetically modified ingredients, consumers need to know about it.
written. − i agree with the views of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on the status of honeydew, which is following the decision of the european court of justice in case c-442/09, where honeydew is defined as an ingredient of honey. this means that the ingredients found in the honey should be listed, which includes the appearance of honeydew that comes from gm plants. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the establishment of a list of products authorised to be placed on the market in the union. the interests of european beekeepers, who are mainly small and medium-sized enterprises whose production is increasing, and not only those of the gmo industry, need to be protected. particular support should be given to countries with a clean and unpolluted environment, such as croatia, whose honey is of high quality and whose production of honey has been steadily increasing, in the case of croatia by about 400% over the last 10 years, i.e. from 2 to 7-8 thousand tons of honey. about 2,000 tons of honey are exported, mostly to the european union market. it is the duty of parliament to protect the right of our citizens to know what is in a product, not to circumvent legal norms and in some way deceive the citizens. at the same time, citizens should have the right to choose between products containing and not containing gmos. we can't restrict them.
written. - in the context of the debate on the girling report on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending council directive 2001/110/ec on honey, i took account of the arguments put forward by the shadow rapporteur, mr peterle, in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety. the key issue is that pollen of gmo origin is classified as an additive to honey and as such is subject to the legal regulation on the labelling of additives. the court of justice of the european union's decision treating gmo pollen as an additive to honey protects honey producers as well as the right of consumers to be informed about gmo ingredients in food. the european commission proposal and the girling report go in the direction of not requiring industry and resellers of honey to report on the gmo additive in honey. such a scenario is most damaging to small producers, as most of them are in my country. in croatia, according to the croatian beekeeping federation, there are 12,000 honey producers. most of them are small producers who produce honey without gmo pollen. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented in a way that is compatible with the common market.
written. - there are between 10 and 12 thousand beekeepers in croatia. in the last fifteen years, the number of hives has increased from 150 to 550 thousand hives in 2013, and croatia now exports about 2,000 tons of honey. it's a natural way of growing honey without genetically modified substances. it's the kind of honey croatian citizens are used to consuming. that's why i supported the environmental committee's position by voting for an amendment to this report that would require gmo pollen to be listed as an ingredient in honey and not a natural part of it. citizens have a right to know what they're consuming. in fact, the european court of justice itself in the balbok case says that honey containing pollen from genetically modified substances needs special marketing authorization. the health effects of honey are also mentioned. the provision whereby the gmo ingredients of honey should not be specifically highlighted on the packaging would benefit large producers and importers of honey. one that i couldn't support because of the 12,000 beekeepers in croatia, but also across the eu that i mentioned at the beginning. the result of such a directive would be execution for them. if a product retains genetically modified ingredients, consumers need to know this, so such a product should be labelled as containing gmos. the consumer is then given the right to choose between two types of product.
in writing. − i fully support the position voted by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, which endorses the position of the european court of justice by legally classifying pollen from gmos as an ingredient of honey, rather than a natural constituent of it. this approach will protect the consumerʼs freedom of choice regarding pollen produced from gmos, protect the beekeeping sector in its efforts to produce gmo-free honey, exempt honey from bearing a list of ingredients, etc. honey is not produced and sold for the beekeepers nor its importers, but for consumers who wish to consume high quality gmo-free honey. in that regard, consumers need to be clearly informed about what they are potentially buying and consuming. this position will ensure the existence of beekeepers in all member states and nearly 9 000 small beekeepers in croatia. it will ensure that citizens of the european union, and thus croatian citizens, are able to consume high-quality honey along with the opportunity to choose between gmo and gmo-free food through labelling.
written. - i commend the efforts of rapporteur girling to bring common sense back into the business of beekeepers, mainly small and medium-sized enterprises, across europe. in particular, after the european court of justice ruled in 2011 that pollen is an ingredient of honey, the same decision caused costly and unnecessary complications for beekeepers who found themselves in the situation of having to relabel all honey and honey-containing products to indicate pollen as an ingredient in the same. the same practice has the potential to cost beekeepers eur 3,25 million, while undermining the consumer's perception of honey as a natural product. as honey is a natural product, it should be exempted from the obligation to display the list of ingredients. that is why i voted for the amendment by rapporteur girling, which calls for pollen to be considered not as an ingredient of honey but as a constituent of the plant.
mr president, i supported this 'hercules' programme because it is in the interest of protecting the financial interests of the union and is designed to promote the fight against fraud, in particular against cigarette smuggling. the 'hercules iii' replaces the 'hercules ii' and will operate under a multiannual financial framework with a budget of eur 104 million, with 80% of the activities being financed in individual countries and 90% in border countries with higher risk. this is primarily about scanning equipment to identify smuggled goods in trucks, then also devices to detect and recognize license plates, but these are just some of the activities for which this money will be spent. we need to know that in 2011 over 11 billion in potential tax revenues were lost in the member states because of cigarette smuggling and therefore this new regulation allows for greater parliamentary scrutiny of the implementation and evaluation of concrete measures.
mr president, i supported this report by mrs macovei because i believe that, while fully respecting the principle of subsidiarity and proportionality, we must nevertheless work together to ensure the financial stability of the european union. in other words, we have a collective responsibility to ensure that the resources at national level, as well as at the level of the european union and its administrative structures, are spent in the most rational way possible. despite my support for this report, and precisely in the interests of rational use of resources, i would like to make one reservation, namely that the proposed financial outlay for the implementation of the programme under discussion is 110 million euro. it is my opinion, and the opinion of the committee on budgets, that this figure is too high and i hope that it will be reduced in the next legislative procedure. i made a similar reservation about the consumer programme from 2014 to 2020, and it's not by accident. as important as these programmes and their objectives are, their implementation and administrative costs must reflect the seriousness of the economic situation in which we find ourselves and i ask that this be taken into account.
mr president, the hercule programme is an important instrument in the fight against fraud, corruption and, in general, illegal activities affecting the financial interests of the european union. the amount of assigned revenue in accordance with article 21 (3) of the financial regulation is estimated at eur 100000. communication and education are key to the process of preventing irregularities and fraud in the management and use of eu funds and this is recognised by the hercule iii programme. the programme focuses significantly on the fight against cigarette smuggling as the most widespread and most harmful activity, which causes the european union to lose billions of euros in taxes annually, which also applies to the republic of croatia. the hercule iii programme provides funding for the purchase of equipment to detect smuggled goods and decrypt communications between smugglers. i support this report.
mr president, i also supported the adoption of the 'hercules iii' programme, i.e. for the period under the multiannual financial framework, and the report by mrs macovei of the committee on budgetary control, because i believe that this is a good continuation of the work to protect the financial interests of the european union. one of the main priorities is, of course, to continue to work on preventing cigarette smuggling, which is estimated to cost as much as €11 billion a year in the european union. i think that with its budget of approximately eur 15 million per year over the next few years, the hercules programme will also allow for increased financial assistance to countries at high risk of smuggling, further support in terms of studies, training and the provision of technical and scientific assistance in the fight against fraud and smuggling, and of course the development of a database of key performance indicators so that member states can better inform themselves and work to prevent this very negative trend.
written. − the financial interests of the european union should be protected by preventive measures. i consider that the hercules iii programme is a good tool for preventing and combating fraud, corruption, smuggling and other illegal activities against the financial interests of the union. the overall financial envelope for the implementation of the programme for the period 2014-2020 is eur 110 million, an increase compared to the hercules ii programme. the proposal emphasises the need for member states, the commission and the competent authorities to reduce potential overlaps with other european union and member state programmes. this is important to ensure synergies with national initiatives and to rationalise programme-based spending in the long term. croatia will benefit in particular from the programme. the european union's external border makes croatia extremely vulnerable to smuggling and therefore the programme of specialist training, conferences and workshops will be a very useful tool for the competent croatian authorities in the fight against illegal activities.
written. − i voted in favour of this report because i believe that hercule iii will contribute to the fight against fraud and corruption, but it is necessary to bear in mind the potential overlap with other eu and member state programmes in the fight against the various instruments of fraud, as well as the administrative costs and the impact on the overall budget. in the republic of croatia, in order to increase the effectiveness in preventing the smuggling of tobacco products, mobile teams have been organised and border controls have been strengthened, and according to the customs administration, the effectiveness is visible, but 'smuggling' still exists. i welcome the hercule iii programme because i believe that, in addition to protecting the financial interests of the european union, it will also help to protect the national interests of the member states, but i think it is important to note that the programme is of course not equally applicable in all member states, and that smuggling of tobacco products is not of equal intensity in all member states. the border regions of the european union, including the republic of croatia, are particularly important and need to be strengthened to stop smugglers, as once they enter the territory of the european union, all member states will be affected.
written. − the european union programme 'hercule iii' contributes to strengthening international cooperation in the field of protection of the eu's financial interests through the prevention and detection of fraud, corruption and other illegal activities affecting the financial interests of the union. in the first programming period from 2004 to 2006, the programme budget was only eur 12 million, then from 2007 to 2013 eur 98,5 million, and today we have the opportunity to support the programme with eur 115 million in the new programming period until 2020. i therefore welcome the important role of this programme and support the adoption of the report on the hercule iii programme to promote measures in the field of the protection of the financial interests of the european union. in the pre-accession process, croatia has shown its determination to fight financial fraud and corruption at national level, and as a beneficiary of eu funds we are open to cooperation with olaf. today, as a full eu member, we seek to strengthen national fraud detection capacities through training that contributes to the fight against fraud in the financial sector. we are greatly helped financially by our participation in the current 'hercule ii' programme, and i therefore welcome the continuation of the programme with even more generous funding through 'hercule iii' in the new programming period.
written. - i voted in favour of the rapporteur's proposal on the protection of the european union's financial interests, which finances activities aimed at combating fraud, with a particular focus on the illegal trade in cigarettes. i particularly support the rapporteur's position on the annual evaluation of member states at high risk which should be given special attention and financial assistance to combat fraud and illegal trade. i also support the rapporteur's proposal to oblige the commission to report annually to the european parliament on the implementation of the hercule iii programme in order to achieve a higher degree of transparency.
written. - i voted in favour because i believe that the fight against counterfeiting and cigarette smuggling can only be effective with the full application of the schengen system at all the external borders of the union and the tightening of measures against the candidate and potential candidate countries from which large quantities of cigarettes are currently smuggled into croatia. i believe that the programme does not undermine the principle of subsidiarity and represents a healthy balance between the competences of the union and the member states and a good example of a healthy union added value.
mr president, i also supported this proposal, coordination between national authorities, the european commission and eurostat, because i believe it is essential for the production of reliable statistics in the union. better coordination will also have an impact on increasing the efficiency of development, production as well as distribution. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the establishment of a european data protection supervisor. we have to take into account that the exchange of data, especially confidential data, should be voluntary and that confidential data should be used exclusively for the purpose of finding statistical data. the recent discovery of data breaches affecting eu citizens has made it clear that there is a need to strengthen the security of the way sensitive data is transmitted. i believe that better coordination would have a positive impact on trade between member states and that excessive costs for the national statistical services should be avoided.
mr president, i supported the report by mr hans-peter martin on the proposal for a regulation on the establishment of statistics on the trading of goods between member states. the exchange of data will contribute to the quality of statistical information on trade in goods between member states, which is important for making good quality decisions related to unimpeded trade. the exchange of data will be voluntary for the next five years. the intrastat system for tracking small and individual transactions aims to improve the quality of statistical data on the exchange of goods. in view of the importance of statistical data for quality decision-making, i support the increase in the scope and quality of statistical data introduced by these regulatory amendments, and this report specifically explains this.
written. − to ensure that the needs of users for statistical data are adequately met, the methodology needs to be improved and an efficient system of data collection and production needs to be established. the simplification of customs procedures has led to a decrease in the availability of statistical information. for the purpose of easy data retrieval, the movement of goods is included in the intrastat system. the exchange of information is done by a 'single-flow' method, i.e. if the quality of the data can be guaranteed, the data are collected only from the exporter. in order to ensure the flow and increase the efficiency, production and quality of statistics between member states, the voluntary and free exchange of confidential data relating to intra-eu trade statistics should be established. improving coordination between national authorities and eurostat and developing an integrated approach is key to creating more reliable statistics. in view of the economic situation, i note that the new rules will not impose new costs or administrative requirements on member states or economic operators. however, following the recent discovery of breaches in the protection of data of union citizens and member states, i express my concern and stress the need to improve the security of the way sensitive statistical data is transmitted.
written. − it is clear that without established statistical standards, there is no reliable or comparable data on which to base projections and strategies for further development. all economic and financial planning requires and depends on timely and accurate data, which, particularly in the context of the way the 28 member states allocate their common resources, makes this legislative resolution extremely important. in a time of falling revenue for member states' public budgets and rising real production costs, i particularly welcome the emphasis on the need to take account of cost-effectiveness and cost-effectiveness in the implementation of the proposed measures, as highlighted in amendments nos 2, 7, 10 and 11. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of personal data, in particular by means of the protection of personal data, in order to ensure that the protection of personal data is not restricted to the processing of personal data by the member states.
written. − i supported the report by my colleague hans-peter martin, as i believe that coordination between national authorities and eurostat is essential for the production of high-quality and reliable statistics on trade between countries. the commission also found that the data provided by the sampled exporting producers were not representative of the data collected by the sampled exporting producers. the collection of data is based on the one-way and voluntary input of information into the intrastat commodity exchange system. this improves the quality of the data collected and ensures the reliability of their use for statistical purposes. it is of particular importance that the commission carry out appropriate consultations during its preparatory work, including at expert level where appropriate. the exchange of confidential information between member states should be allowed, whether free of charge or voluntary, bearing in mind, however, that such exchange of confidential information should be carried out with care and should not, in itself, cause an increase in the administrative burden for companies.
written. − i commend the efforts of the rapporteur who succeeded in producing a quality report that respects the principle of subsidiarity, while highlighting the key element for producing better statistics in europe, namely improved coordination between national authorities and the commission (eurostat). i particularly welcome the part of the report which points out that the exchange of confidential information in this area must be free of charge, voluntary and should not, in itself, cause an increase in the administrative burden on companies. i hold the report to be positive in its entirety and i voted in favour.
written. - i fully support the resolution to combat all wildlife related crimes because i consider this crime not only illegal but immoral and unacceptable. since illegal wildlife trafficking still occurs and is classified as organized crime, it is really necessary to highlight the importance of this problem. it is also important to highlight the fact that wildlife crime threatens entire local ecosystems and threatens species with extinction. the fight against this crime requires a coordinated response at the highest political level and wildlife protection laws must be implemented at national and international level to combat it effectively and in a timely manner. i would like to stress my concern about the lack of law enforcement, the low penalties, the vague and imprecise laws that open up the possibility of increased crime. it is important to create a strategy of building a legal framework to be able to successfully fight this problem. we also need to protect the world's natural resources from illegal international trade and to pool all relevant european and domestic instruments to fight crime.
written. in the course of this debate, i consider it necessary to express concern regarding the legitimacy of the introduction of restrictions by some member states of the european union which have prevented croatian citizens from the date of full membership from exercising their fundamental right to freedom of movement, primarily for the purpose of employment. we must ask ourselves here whether there can really be exceptions to the full application of the fundamental principles, one of which is the right to free movement of citizens, which is not only the foundation on which the union is built, but which over time has provided the legal basis for the further development of union legislation, by creating legally binding standards. the commission has not found any evidence that the measures in question are in breach of the union rules.
mr president, although commissioner reding is not here, i would like to thank her for a very clear message and i believe that the council should send a similar message. indeed, eu citizenship should not be for sale. of course, there will always be those who claim that money can buy everything and that we must accept it. unfortunately, the government's move in malta sends such a wrong message. but it's a move that raises a number of questions. the point is, should property be a determining factor in the granting of citizenship? can eu citizenship be offered to foreign billionaires just to fill the state budget? and of course where is the solidarity with the other members of the european union? although the issue of citizenship is a competence of the member states, this of course has certain consequences for all other member states, because malta is not only selling its citizenship but also the citizenship of the european union. these new maltese will be able to go freely, to move within the borders of the european union, even with fewer obstacles than the citizens of croatia who are not yet in schengen, for example. so there's a question and the biggest problem is that in the case of the decision of the socialist government in malta, you don't see a clear link with the acquisition of citizenship and residency of someone who will create new jobs through some greenfield investment. there are some countries that have these sort of gold programs, but they're connected to the idea of new investment. this is not the case in malta and is therefore unacceptable.
mr president, i agree that each member state has a sovereign right to determine the conditions for acquiring its nationality and that the institutions of the european union have no right to interfere. but membership of the schengen area also means great responsibility and obligations, especially for those member states on the union's external borders. the decisions of individual members in the area of citizenship acquisition policy thus become a potential problem for all members of the zone and unilateral moves should not be desirable. i therefore consider that just as each member state has the sovereign right to decide to whom to offer citizenship, other member states should also have the sovereign right to restrict access to nationals of those member states who practice the sale of citizenship. given that a few member states report such practices, i believe it would be appropriate to introduce certain safeguards within the schengen instrument which would allow for the introduction of restrictions against countries that trade in nationality.
mr. president, it is indisputable that croatia and serbia must cooperate closely, especially in the sphere of security and the fight against organized crime, where a great challenge is the good connection of criminal groups from the two countries. croatia's progress towards the eu is also important for free trade and as a guarantee of stability for croatian entrepreneurs who have so far invested €670 million in serbia. but for croatia, progress in serbia-kosovo relations alone cannot be a guarantee of a change in serbian policy. bilateral relations with a state headed by a chetnik duke and rehabilitating the chetnik movement, refusing to acknowledge its role in the last war and not acknowledging the existence of camps on its territory, hiding minefield maps, refusing to give data on missing persons and not fully returning looted cultural property cannot be labeled as goods on the basis of symbolic gestures of high state officials behind which there is no content. in her own country, she led a public debate, and the conclusion was almost unanimous: serbian policy has not changed. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.) commissioner, i would like your written answer as to whether, during your negotiations, you tried, or will try, to help serbia come to terms with its past. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149 (8))
question is "carton bleu". mr president, mrs tomašić, you mentioned on the one hand that croatia is interested in serbia's progress towards the european union because of our economic interests, on the other hand you mentioned that serbian policy has not changed, that it has remained essentially aggressive as it was in the '90s. in that sense, i would like to ask you whether you would then support the decision to open accession negotiations with serbia now in january or would you block serbia's european path at this moment?
replying to the question raised by raising the blue card thank you, dear colleague, i have nothing against opening negotiations, to negotiate, but i also want serbia to do what it needs to do on the way to the european union. you know very well that croatia had to sign both what it should and what it should not have signed to join the european union as soon as possible. so why should we be the scapegoat, especially if we are not guilty of anything?
mr. president, mr. commissioner, you remember world war i, the war that began in the balkans and ended with the first american military intervention in europe. this year also marks the 25th anniversary of slobodan milosevic's famous speech in gazimestan, when he publicly articulated the plan to create a greater serbia. the european community at that time had neither the strength nor the ability to stop milosevic's aggression against slovenia, croatia, bosnia, kosovo, and finally, there was american intervention again. the reports before us today say that much has changed, that europe has in the meantime learned some lessons and that it can now take the lead in ensuring peace and stability in its south-east corner. the success of european foreign policy in reaching an agreement between belgrade and pristina is a testament to this. this opens up a historic opportunity for serbia, an opportunity for europeanization. it should be made clear here that this process is not simple. yes, serbia will have to face its past, with milosevic's aggression, will have to open the archives of the yugoslav secret police and army, solve the issue of missing persons, protect minorities, will have to continue the fight against corruption, implement economic reforms. it's a demanding process, it can take a long time, but it's a historic opportunity for serbia because serbia belongs to a civilization that is built on the judeo-christian tradition and if serbia goes through this process of europeanization, and i believe that the citizens of serbia deserve it, then it has a place in the european union. such a european serbia is in the interest of all of us, first and foremost of the citizens of serbia themselves, who will be able to build with us a europe of peace and freedom, a europe which has replaced the nationalist logic of conflict with a new policy of cooperation, solidarity and progress.
mr president, mr commissioner, 2013 was a significant year for the two countries whose progress we are discussing today, but also for the credibility of the european union's foreign policy in the western balkans. the mutual agreement between belgrade and pristina marks an important milestone in their mutual relations, but reflects the growing maturity of these societies. i support progress in organising local self-government in kosovo, but greater participation in local elections should be encouraged. the additional protection of all minorities in both countries remains their particular obligation. as regards serbia, the open issues with neighbouring croatia include uncovering the fate of 1665 missing people, addressing the problems of the succession process and the implementation of the undertakings on the division of the assets of the former sfry, an agreement on the division of the common archive, the adjustment of the trade parts of the stabilisation and association agreement, as well as a greater engagement in addressing open border issues. today in 1998, the implementation of the erdut agreement between croatia and serbia was completed, which peacefully reintegrated the croatian danube region with the mediation of the international community and the retention of a large part of the local serb population. i would like the agreement between kosovo and serbia to be a similar roadmap for their european future.
thank you very much, mr. chairman. we have already heard that a stable serbia, like all the other countries of south-eastern europe, is a guarantee of peace and stability in that part of europe. mr füle, i want to thank you for your efforts, and mrs ashton, because without your efforts, we would not have had this dynamic and we would not have believed a year or two ago that we would be praising and welcoming serbia's progress today. however, it would not be correct to be here today from croatia, which joined the european union in 2013, and not mention one of the, i will say freely, conditions, and that is the finding, as my colleague picula has already said, of 1665 people missing in the homeland war. that's a fact that needs to be brought up here and not just brought up but worked on. and i'll emphasize another detail, which is the opening of the archives in serbia to remove the legacy of the former communist secret services because it would open the way for the exchange of information both about the missing and about all the information that is important for serbia on its way to the european union.
thank you very much, mr. chairman. commissioner füle, thank you for the good report in october. i expect that with the progress of serbia and kosovo, some in the negotiations, others in the stabilisation and association agreements, we will see the progress of bosnia and herzegovina and the strengthening of the position of the croats as a constituent people in our neighbouring country. today marks 22 years since the then european community countries recognized croatia and slovenia. slovenia and croatia are also in this forum serbia, which was the cause of the war and aggression in the territory of the former yugoslavia, next week begins negotiations. that's a pretty important message these past two decades. serbia needs to go towards europe, it needs to reform, it needs to meet the criteria, but also towards its neighbours it needs to solve the issues of the past, and the disappearance of minority rights and archives and take political responsibility for what happened in the past years that are behind us.
thank you, madam president. these countries should be recognized for their courageous steps. these steps may have been taken under pressure, but that's what the union is for, to put pressure when it's needed. help will still be needed to prevent a recurrence of post-dayton peace syndrome in the frozen state. so serbia needs to be assured that there will be no backtracking and relying on the glorious past as a political argument. it happened sometimes, and it was disastrous every time. the past must be cleared up, the secret service archives must be opened, not only serbia but also other countries of the former yugoslavia, relations with neighbours must be settled, especially with regard to territory, missing persons and property. of course, the problems facing these countries are enormous. it is primarily about the fight against corruption and crime, the ultra-nationalism that is not dead, it is just a fad, the fight for an independent judiciary and so on. but all of this can be done over time with the help of the european union and in the process of joining the european union. of course, the first step to help should be the recognition of kosovo by all european countries.
member of the commission. − mr president, i am grateful to the honourable members for their support for the process of accession negotiations between the european union and serbia. i will start with serbia. your support represents strong evidence of the european union’s commitment to serbia’s european future, and in the negotiations i will continue paying particular attention to serbia delivering on the continuing normalisation of its relations with kosovo; to the rule of law, particularly reform of the judiciary and the fight against corruption and organised crime; to effective implementation of the legislation on the protection of minorities and on anti-discrimination; to serbia’s contribution to regional cooperation and improved relations with its neighbours; and, last but not least, to the implementation of serbia’s commitments under the stabilisation and association agreement. thank you also for your continuing support for our work on kosovo. it is essential that we maintain the positive momentum created by the april agreement, the start of the stabilisation and association agreement negotiations and the successful local elections. everything depends on delivery, and kosovo needs to deliver on normalisation of its relations with serbia; to continue its cooperation with the european union rule of law mission (eulex) and its possible successor mission; to continue to work on the priorities indicated in our feasibility study of 2012, notably on electoral reform, the rule of law, the judiciary, public administration, human and fundamental rights and the protection of minorities; and to implement the reforms necessary for visa liberalisation. however, the european union also needs to deliver. once the negotiations on the stabilisation and association agreement are completed, we need a positive response from this house and our member states. agreement will be good for kosovo, for the region and for the european union. equally, once kosovo meets the visa liberalisation benchmarks, the visa regime needs to be lifted. there have been a number of concrete suggestions in the debate and also a number of specific questions. some i will respond to in written answers, as requested, but let me specifically tackle two of them here. the first is from mr belder on the preparation of candidate countries to be economically competitive – not two or five years after the country joins the european union but at the time of joining the union. in our last progress report, the commission suggested for the first time the creation of what i would call some kind of ‘light’ eu semester, helping the candidate countries – and later also aspirant countries – through specific eu policies, coordination and support, and helping them to tackle reform, restructuring of the economy, growth and employment starting from the early stages of the accession negotiations, rather than waiting for actual membership. the second question, from mr tomašić, concerned a plea to help the countries of the western balkans in general, and serbia specifically, to try to come to terms with the past. i will do so in my remaining time in office. that is now counted in months, but you have seen me during these last four years trying to deliver on policies to create conditions precisely for that. we have changed the accession negotiations in such a way that the focus is now on fundamentals, so the approach in chapters 23 and 24 will be concerned with establishing a properly-functioning democracy and creating the conditions for a thriving civil society and strong fundamental freedoms and rights. those are the conditions under which our partners will try to come to terms with the past. and we have been trying to deliver on more: we have cooperated with the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia; we are trying to create the conditions for our candidate countries and aspirant countries to cooperate regionally; and we have supported the sarajevo process and a number of other initiatives to create conditions precisely for this. allow me to make one final point. this is probably our last joint debate based on the progress reports on serbia and kosovo. looking back to the beginning of our joint debates and looking at the results of your support, guidance and help – not only as an institution but also through the personal commitment of a number of you, some of whom i see still sitting here and following the discussions, and through your passionate commitment to enlargement in general and to specific countries in the western balkans – i want to thank you for that cooperation and for what we have achieved together under your leadership, particularly in the case of serbia and kosovo.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, let me first of all express appreciation for the support of the european parliament during the whole process of enlargement. i also thank, in particular, the two rapporteurs for the quality of their work. the support of parliament has been instrumental in maintaining eu citizens’ support for the erasmus policy. i think this was a very important contribution. the council has regularly reaffirmed its unequivocal commitment to the european perspective of the western balkans, and in recent months we have indeed witnessed several important and positive events: the accession of croatia; the decision to start accession negotiations with serbia (the first governmental conference will take place on the 21st of this month); and progress in the negotiations with montenegro. this is good news: good news for the western balkans, for the european union and for everybody – especially for my country, which has always been a strong supporter of the accession of all western balkan countries without exception. concerning the question asked by mr posselt about the former yugoslav republic of macedonia: this is not on the agenda, but i would like just to say that the very recent conclusions of the council in december reflect the position of the council on all these matters. in the particular case of serbia and kosovo, i am convinced that the normalisation of relations between them will have a hugely positive impact, not only for serbia and kosovo but also for the whole region. it should help serve as an example to neighbours that engagement and dialogue are key to settling long-standing disputes.
written. the fact that i come from croatia, a neighbouring country, says that i am both professionally and personally aware of the importance and need for the integration of the whole region into the european union. although each of the western balkan countries has gone through its own painful transition, certain cultural similarities as well as the common tradition of the neighbouring countries can serve as an example in speeding up the accession process if good practices from the croatian example are transferred to other countries in the region. the western balkans region has historically been a place of conflict, but also of encounters between different cultures and religious traditions, and therefore the accession of serbia to the eu for the entire western balkans region represents a step towards more long-term stability for the entire region. however, it is also important to note that layered and structural social changes take time and therefore it is important to approach reforms holistically in order for serbia as a new eu member to be a stable and reliable partner both in the region and the eu as a whole.
mr kurkulas, commissioner füle, and mr preda, rapporteur, i congratulate you on your efforts in submitting this report. we have always said that croatia had a specific process of enlargement. the case of iceland proves that this is perhaps even more specific, given that it has been part of the european economic area for many years, that it has been part of the schengen system for many years, that it is economically developed, that it has been leaning on acquisition for many years for membership of the european union. it is, of course, a change in the political landscape in iceland, a change in circumstances due to the economic crisis, which has brought the new government into a situation where it has put forward the idea of a referendum to be held before the negotiations can resume. i think that the policy of both the council and the commission and the parliament is the only correct one in this case. let's see how things develop there. it is correct that there are no ipa funds for a country that does not want to be a member at this time. as a friendly country, when they want to come, croatia will support them.
thank you, madam president. i welcome the messages sent by commissioner füle and the report prepared by mr preda. this report actually sends one very clear message, and that is that the european union is ready to continue accession negotiations if iceland wants to do so as well. and that's actually the right message, a message that some colleagues in this house who are opposed to the european idea may not understand because they still see the european union as some kind of imposition of the big powers against the small ones. this is precisely the proof that the european union is a voluntary union, that if one country does not want to continue negotiations, it can decide to do so. and that's where i think we need to continue with that message. there is no point in forcing this situation, but rather in respecting the will of the icelandic democratic institutions.
madam president, today marks the international day of recognition of croatia, when we were recognized by all 12 members of the then european community. i say this in the context of this debate because iceland was the first country to recognize croatia almost a month earlier and for that we thank them. it is, then, a land of the determined. along with the progress report on iceland, i would like to express my regret that negotiations with the european union have been put on hold. this is unfavourable to the union and its northern dimension, to the credibility of enlargement and to unity among member states. the decision by iceland to postpone the negotiations until further notice has deprived the european union of the opportunity for this small country to bring some of its great experience to the work of the community. i would like to highlight the experience of sustainable fisheries, as iceland is the first country in the world to achieve the ideal of sustainable fisheries, one of the priorities in the next multiannual programmes of the european union. iceland has a right to its own decision, and i understand the reasons for it. however, i believe that iceland and the european union will recognise the mutual benefits of accession, i.e. enlargement, and will soon proceed to break the process.
thank you, madam president. on december 15 last year, south sudan entered a new spiral of violence, this time due to clashes between government forces, the country's president and the rebel forces of the former vice president. sadly, this newest african nation has failed to maintain internal stability and peace since independence. what is particularly worrying is the fact that the conflict in south sudan, in addition to a political struggle for power, also has the connotation of an inter-ethnic conflict between the dinka and the nuer. in addition to the 1,000 dead in the conflict and some 200,000 refugees, there has been a new tragedy, unfortunately, in the drowning of some 200 civilians fleeing south sudan. we therefore call once again for an end to the conflict and support the un and african union peace efforts and the peace negotiations that began on 7 january but then fell into a deadlock. the negotiations must be unblocked in order to find a political solution and stop further suffering of innocent people in south sudan.
on behalf of the ecr club. madam president, homelessness is an attack on human dignity and as a mass phenomenon it has no place in 21st century europe. but trends show that we are not moving in the desired direction and that the rise of homelessness is a european reality at this moment. i therefore support the adoption of a strategy to tackle homelessness, but i believe it is very important that it is thorough and comprehensive. the increase in homelessness in the european union is the result of a number of social problems, primarily the result of the economic crisis, to which we have not found an adequate response. i will only give a croatian example: every day, a dozen families lose their property, mostly the properties in which they live, because they are subject to an enforcement procedure. croatia has adopted a very strong and effective legislative framework for debt collection from over-indebted citizens in recent years, but has failed to incorporate a social component. the consequence of putting the state exclusively on the side of the creditors in such cases, without looking at the broader social picture, is the growing number of croatian families who have been left without a roof over their heads and thus become a burden on the social system. the state, as the debt collector, ultimately burdens itself while ensuring the unconditional collection of private creditors, which is a paradox. in these cases, the personal responsibility of those who have found themselves in financial trouble should not be overlooked, but i believe that banks must finally accept business risk as something most normal in the free market. social systems in some other member states are under great pressure from the growing number of immigrants, which is a very different kind of problem from the one in croatia. that is why i believe that this strategy must be comprehensive and offer a wide range of solutions to the growing problem of homelessness in the european union.
madam president, i am fully aware of the economic crisis that has hit not only the european but also the world economy. although we are still hostages to this crisis, we should not reduce or eliminate programs that aim to eradicate poverty. many european union countries are implementing austerity measures, but we should be careful that these measures do not come at the expense of basic social needs. poverty is one of the most pressing problems facing not only europe but the world today. while we have a number of scientific studies available that thoroughly investigate the causes and consequences of poverty, any additional discussion, like the one we have today, is encouraging and welcome, because we must constantly remind ourselves that the causes of poverty are deeply rooted in all of our societies and are highly layered. homelessness is one of the most extreme forms of poverty and is present in all member states. while tackling homelessness is definitely a member state responsibility, the european union must also have a clear strategy to tackle the problem. the european union institutions, and in particular the commission, should promote clear policies to help tackle this problem. the cooperation of all institutions at all levels, european, national, regional and local, is essential. networking of all actors would significantly contribute to a better implementation of policies aimed at combating homelessness and eradicating all forms of poverty. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on homelessness and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on homelessness. only the active implementation of clear policies can bring results in the fight against this pervasive social problem. i sincerely hope we succeed on this journey.
madam chairman, the homeless are not homeless by choice. also, the homeless are not poor because they are homeless. they're homeless because they're poor. these are the losers: those who have lost their jobs, their prospects, their futures, and they didn't want that. it's the humiliation that this system, which for some reason i don't know why we call it neoliberal, has imposed. as we speak, people are still homeless, and the only strategy that can help is a strategy to eradicate poverty. the european union of poor citizens has no reason to exist, just as the state of poor citizens has no reason to exist. no one on this continent of millennia of culture and tumultuous history should be hungry, without a roof over their head, without education, health care and without a secure old age. this is not the case today and this should become the first and foremost objective of the european union and its institutions.
madam president, according to estimates by non-governmental organisations, there are almost three million homeless people in the european union, and over 80 million people live in poverty. we in the group have always stood up and will always stand up for the protection of the most vulnerable groups in our society. faced with various challenges, mainly social and economic, with so many of our fellow citizens totally deprived, we see that in some things we are clearly in the wrong. the mistakes in our social policies and those of the member states lead to situations where people are left with nothing. it's not anyone's personal choice. i think that we, as representatives of all the citizens of the european union, must act as a strong shield and find a solution to a problem of such magnitude that in a few years' time we will no longer have to call it a problem at all. in my question to the european commission, i referred to the problem of criminalising homelessness and received a promise from commissioner reding that funding for promoting social inclusion and fighting poverty would be increased.
madam president, discrimination is a timeless problem for which it is difficult to find a universal solution. i hold and deeply believe that all citizens must be equal before the law and that we must respect human rights. but i get the impression that certain groups want to be more equal, which is a step in the wrong direction. discrimination is discrimination, whether it is negative or positive, and as such it is unfair and undesirable. the rights of one must not be at the expense of the rights of others, and that is the simplest and the only correct formula to follow. i must express my regret and disappointment that this issue has been brought up because i believe that the members have clearly and unequivocally stated their views on it. i'm afraid that certain political forces cannot fully comprehend democracy and they use violent methods to impose their ideological views on all of us. madam president, we all know it takes a man and a woman to conceive a child. the moment when the time comes for a woman to conceive that child alone, without the help of a man, then she can decide for herself about that child.
madam president, it seems that this whole debate is about a bill in spain and that is why i am going to speak in spanish. in the middle ages, st. thomas aquinas thought that human life did not begin at conception; of course, he knew nothing about genetics at the time, but it seems that the socialists have stuck to the theology of the middle ages and who is the retrograde then? we must accept the conclusions of 21st century science, which says that life begins at conception, and that life must be defended. so, although this debate is not for this parliament but for the spanish parliament, my message to the spanish colleagues is very clear: go ahead!
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, honourable members, thank you very much for your remarks and comments on this very sensitive issue. the commission has been asked to make a statement for this plenary session. there is no document for discussion, but i can make some remarks. the commission, of course, fully recognises that each and every individual has the fundamental right of access to high-quality healthcare but, as you very well know, in relation to health and health care, the treaties have granted limited competence to the european union. the treaties stipulate that the definition of health policies and the organisation and delivery of health services and medical care is the responsibility of individual member states – a responsibility that the european union respects. the commission acknowledges the differences between member states’ national policies and laws with regard to these sensitive issues, especially with regard to abortion. in answer to some specific questions, according to the treaty on european union and the treaty on the functioning of the european union, the eu has no competence on abortion policy at national level and therefore cannot interfere in member states’ policies in this area. sex education is also the competence of the member states. the eu can facilitate the exchange of best practices, and is doing so. i can also say that the commission, together with the european parliament and the member states, is clearly committed to working to abolish any form of discrimination in health care.
written. this is about the fundamental human rights to equality, health and freedom. maternal mortality is an important indicator of the quality of health care, and i'm proud to say that i come from a country where it's very low. however, the large differences in this rate between member states leave a great deal of room for improvement. member states should encourage the provision of sex education in primary and secondary schools. the trend of decreasing abortions and teenage pregnancies in europe is not due to the prohibition of abortion, but to systematic education in schools, but of course, in the family. sex education in schools that teaches children sexual responsibility, in which emphasis on gender equality and respect for diversity leads to the creation of a tolerant, democratic, and therefore progressive society.
mr president, european industry must maintain its competitiveness in the future. for this reason, it is primarily resource and energy efficiency that is at the heart of europe's industrial renewal. the union needs above all a green and environmentally efficient industrial strategy in order to restore the capacity of the manufacturing sector and create new jobs. the commission will continue to support the development of the european research area, which is a key pillar of the union's research and innovation policy. the above should of course be based on smart specialisation strategies that take into account the potential of each region.
mr president, reindustrialisation is the key to the success of the europe we want to see, but not for the purposes of the title of this report. competitiveness and sustainability are consequences, not goals. the aim is to provide employment for europeans. the fact is that in most european countries, in croatia in particular, where i come from, industry has been deliberately destroyed for 20 years. this was done by patriotic right-wing governments and equally socially sensitive left-wing governments, with the help of, of course, large amounts of capital from europe. companies were being privatized, they were being demolished to get attractive land and to build shopping centers. this capitalist-criminal system has resulted in massive unemployment, all on the principle that the market will regulate everything. he won't and he can't. as it will not lead to the re-start of industry where it is so destroyed. a bad system can't produce good results no matter how hard you try.
mr president, the european union's development strategy to 2020 puts industry at the heart of a new model of economic growth. a sustainable, innovative and efficient industry is key to growth and development. the european union industry provides 34 million jobs and 3.8 million jobs were lost during the crisis. a shift in the approach to industrial development is needed, it is important to link more strongly with science and to use new scientific achievements to develop new innovative technologies and new solutions in the organisation of work and processes. investments in industry are development investments that will contribute to long-term economic growth and reduction of unemployment. this is why i support the focus of administrative and financial capacity on strengthening industry and encouraging member states to adopt their own industrial policies. i support this report which seeks to encourage measures to strengthen european industry and reverse the trend of a continuing decline in the share of industry in gdp, which has fallen from 20% to 15% over the last 15 years.
mr vice-president, i support the report by mr bütikofer on reindustrialising europe to promote competitiveness and sustainability, which gives clear directions for strengthening production within the european union and facilitates access to capital and strengthens the common market. the report is based on the 2012 communication from the european commission 'a strong european industry for growth and economic development'. the crisis and recession have had a major impact on industry, with 3.8 million jobs lost within the eu and production falling by as much as 10%. the main objective of this new reindustrialisation policy is to reverse the current trend and increase the share of the european union industry from the current 16% to 20% by 2020. one of the key levers of reindustrialisation is investment in research and development. in croatia, we are currently investing 0.75% of gdp, and we want to double that target by 2020. i therefore support this report which gives the member states an incentive to strengthen their industry and ensures the development of the common market and access to capital.
written. - europe's progress as a continent rests on industrialisation and manufacturing. today, when we are united in a union, a community of states, we have the opportunity to maximize our common potential and our long, rich culture of industrial production. we have the opportunity to create jobs and use synergies and shared knowledge and experience to realise a new industrial wave. we need to keep in mind that we need to embed the principles of sustainability in this process and thus set an example of good management of natural resources without long-term adverse effects on the environment. such goals can be achieved through cooperation, interregional projects, clustering, and by encouraging technology incubators and investments in the education system, i.e. by motivating young people to pursue education in the technical sciences. only in this way can we build and deliver a long-term, stable and competitive industry and manufacturing.
written. − this is a positive report calling for a european strategy to revive the economy through the 'rebirth' of industry. it's positive enough in that it calls for a backward strategy. the commission also found that the chinese exporting producers had not provided any evidence that the measures were in line with the union interest. the eu also needs a single approach to industrial policy. in particular, we take into account that the financing conditions in the countries of northern and southern europe are different. in germany, smes attract almost 90% of the funds requested, while in greece this figure is only 25%. interest rates are different in northern and southern europe. in this way, the eu as a global actor is weakened from within. in calling for re-industrialization, it is important to emphasize the need to develop green industry. the european commission has put forward data showing that the energy efficiency and renewable energy sectors alone have the potential to create 5 million jobs by 2020. the economic crisis has led to the loss of 3.8 million jobs in the eu's industrial sector. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, including the countries of the former soviet union, in order to ensure that the union's macro-financial assistance is consistent with the union's macro-financial assistance.
written. - i welcome the report by mr bütikofer. it is important to emphasize that advanced industry is not only important for developed countries but also for those that are less developed. it is in developed countries that industry provides more stable and acceptable paid jobs, especially for those with high school and vocational qualifications. after an initial period of adaptation and productivity gains, industry starts to create new jobs. for it to function successfully, this stage is crucial. the problem we can identify in smaller developing countries is that they are facing the global crisis in a often defensive way by cutting public spending or running large deficits, or reform initiatives without a clear vision and real promotion of industrial policy. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the measure is imputable to the state. the direction in which they should move is actually to formulate strategies and plans that are in line with their own natural resources and that would lead to the creation of a more successful business or investment environment. reindustrialisation supported by an increase in human capital and institutional capacity can become a key source of overall growth, as well as other sectors of the economy (services, for example).
written. − i welcome the adoption of the report on the reindustrialisation of europe to promote competitiveness and sustainability. the economic crisis has hit the european union's industrial sector, which will not reach the target of 20% of eu gdp by 2020 without improving competitiveness. i believe that innovation and a skilled workforce are the key to achieving sustainable competitiveness. today's young people in education must be prepared for future employment opportunities and changing market dynamics. i welcome the recommendation of the committee on international trade to create a mobility and vocational training policy for the european market in order to improve the competitiveness and skills of workers in european industry. i also welcome the european commission's efforts to open up the eu market to the us in line with the wto principle of trade liberalisation, in order to meet demand on both sides of the atlantic, which would provide an additional boost to the eu industrial sector. the commission notes that the measures in question are not imputable to the state, but to the state and the state-owned banks. croatian industry, as part of eu industry, sees an opportunity in increasing competitiveness, and i therefore support this report on the reindustrialisation of europe.
written. - i supported the proposal for a new approach to eu industrial policy, it is crucial for the eu. the commission notes that the average price of the product concerned in the union market was around eur [0-5] million in the rip. this puts us in the group of member states with the greatest decline in industrial production in the eu. according to the data of the state statistical office (dzs) from november 2013, the number of employees in croatian industry has decreased by about 3,5% in the last year. so croatia definitely needs a renaissance of industrial production and that is why i certainly support this report. i would like to draw particular attention to the part of the report that relates to innovation and investment in research. the eu needs a third industrial revolution to get back on the path of economic growth. we know very well what it takes - innovation, innovation, innovation. so when we talk about economic growth, whatever the economic sector is, we always come back to innovation. accordingly, it is necessary to achieve the europe 2020 target and to achieve an average eu-wide allocation of 3% of gdp to research and development. only as pioneers of technological development and innovation can we have a competitive and sustainable european industry that will meet the challenges of the new age.
written. − i believe that with a good strategy we can reindustrialise europe, both to promote competitiveness and sustainability, and to drive innovation and create new jobs. in the last few years we have been faced with a crisis that has significantly affected european economies. the industrial sector alone has lost 3.8 million jobs, and to date we have particularly faced youth unemployment. the fact that industry still accounts for 4/5 of european exports clearly shows that this sector is an important factor in the european union's economy and needs to be further developed. we need to find a strategy that will revive the economy and lead to a rebirth of industry in europe. we must also encourage research, innovation, investment in infrastructure and interregional cooperation. i would like to stress here the importance of green industry and the need for an environmentally efficient strategy based on energy and resources. the european commission has indicated that the energy efficiency and renewable energy sectors have the potential to create 5 million jobs by 2020, indicating the importance of generating capacity as well as increasing competitiveness and sustainability in order to secure these new jobs.
written. − although industry is still a very important sector of the union's economy, the economic crisis has caused the loss of 3 million jobs in this sector. europe is going to have to invest in high technology and innovation and relieve manufacturers of excessive taxes and regulations, otherwise we will be talking about european industry in the past tense. and i'll point out here that mobility is not the answer to unemployment. it may correct the statistics in the short term because the unemployed will flock to the member states that offer jobs, but in the long term it will lead to the economic and demographic collapse of the poorer member states. that's why i voted against it.
written. - mr president, in support of mr bütikofer's report, i would like to stress two important guidelines. first, i would remind you that regional economies are the key to achieving smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. any planning at european union level, including that associated with reindustrialisation, must take into account the potentials and characteristics of individual regions in order to achieve the planned level of high specialisation of european industry. in this context, particular attention should be paid to the peripheral and isolated regions of the european union which are not yet properly integrated into the european economic area. secondly, i think it is extremely important to stress that a strong industrial policy of the european union must be accompanied by actions to maximise the market position of our products. so it's crucial to put the emphasis on their quality. with a general remark, i am thinking in particular of companies that are innovative and special, such as those that produce luxury goods and services and that currently create almost 1.5 million jobs in europe. in conclusion, i was personally happy to support this report because i believe that the reindustrialisation of europe, as proposed by my colleague mr bütikofer, holds enormous potential for growth and jobs. thank you.
written. − i support the proposal for a council decision authorising france to apply reduced rates of certain indirect taxes to 'traditional' rum produced in guadeloupe, french guiana, martinique and réunion, and i support the amendment of that decision. i believe that the overseas regions of the european union should be given a favourable position in accessing the eu market for 'traditional' rum, as 71% of their own production is placed on the french market. their economic potential is based on economic conditions which are completely different from those of the european territory, and i therefore consider it necessary to act in solidarity and to extend the period during which the reduced excise duty rates on 'traditional' rum will apply.
written. - article 349 authorises spain, france and portugal to have reduced rates of certain indirect taxes on products produced in other member states, which are determined by specific specifications. such benefits were introduced on the basis of the perceived persistent difficulties affecting the economic and social conditions of these outermost regions. the commission notes that the commission did not provide any evidence that the airport operator had been granted an economic advantage by the region. the european commission has proposed that such privileges continue from 2014 to 2020 to help specific countries within the european union. i will vote against this proposal because i believe that three member states would have an unfair advantage. most countries have peripheral regions, but they don't have the privilege of using the reduced tax rate.
written. − i support the proposal to amend the rules of procedure primarily because the member's immunity is a guarantee of the independence and integrity of parliament itself and of the member, and not his personal privilege. it is very important to emphasise that the amendments follow in their entirety and are the result of the relevant judgments of the european court of justice and the opinions of the committee on legal affairs, which is competent for the 'privileges and immunities' of members in accordance with the provisions of the rules of procedure. the amendments shall be based on the relevant primary law which determines and resolves the issues of fact and procedure. it was therefore necessary to support the amendment of certain provisions of the rules of procedure in order to bring their content into line with the case-law and the opinion of the competent parliamentary committee. it is necessary to regulate this matter in the rules of procedure in a sound and sufficiently detailed manner in order to protect this institution in which the citizens of the union are directly represented.
written. − i support the proposal to reformulate certain rules within the rules of procedure of the european parliament on the waiver and protection of the immunity of members of parliament in order to make their structure more consistent and in line with recent case law in legal philosophy. i share the view that the immunity of members of the european parliament is not a personal privilege and that it should therefore be regulated in the rules of procedure in sufficient detail to protect an institution which directly represents all citizens of the european union and of croatia. in view of the above, parliament must continue to act in order to preserve its integrity as a democratic legislative assembly that ensures the independence of members in the performance of their parliamentary duties.
written. - mr president, i welcome the report on the waiver and protection of the immunities of members of parliament. it is clear that this report has formulated the relevant laws in order to ensure their consistent structure and in line with the case law. under the new practice, mps would have a limited number of deferrals on their hearing, to avoid delaying the waiver of immunity. the new amendments proposed clarify the law and prevent lawmakers from abusing its flaw. it should also be noted that the member's immunity is not a personal, but an institutional privilege. and the protection of the lawyer should be justified in the case of a breach of the law that is related to his institutional practice, not to personal privilege. that's why i'm going to support this report which will contribute to a better and clearer law regarding parliamentary immunity.
written. − no new gmo species have been authorised for cultivation in the eu since 2010. the last gmo authorised was amflora potatoes, and monsanto's mon810 maize is awaiting renewal. since 2008, stricter checks on the long-term effects of gmos and the involvement of independent investigators of potential risks have been systematically required, with an insistence on access to complete documentation. i do not support the authorisation of any new types of genetically modified organisms (gmos) nor renew existing licences until the risk assessment has improved considerably. in this context, we ask that the placing on the market of maize (zea mays l, line 1507) genetically modified to be resistant to certain types of pests be prohibited. we have respected the wishes of citizens who have expressed reservations about genetically modified organisms. until we are absolutely certain of them, until we have a secure system of credible checks, especially the long-term effects of gmo use, we will oppose the authorization of cultivation. until conditions are created in which we are absolutely certain of the safety of gmo products we have no right to impose them on our citizens.
written. - i support the proposal to reject the commission's proposal to authorise new gm maize varieties until new control and consumer protection mechanisms are in place. the potential negative consequences of the long-term use of genetically modified maize seed to the detriment of indigenous seed species in the area where the gm species are grown are numerous and some of them are not fully known. as a representative from croatia, i am particularly pleased to note that croatia is one of the gmo free countries, where as many as 14 out of 20 counties have formally recognised the importance of natural production and declared their areas free from gmo production. consumers have a legitimate choice not to consume such products. we members of the european parliament, as representatives of the only directly elected institution of the european union, must protect the choice and rights of our citizens and support safe food production and the transparency of its placing on the european union market.
written. − the free movement of citizens and workers, one of the four freedoms in the internal market of the european union, must not be restricted or selective. it is unquestionable because it is embedded in the foundation of the community. populist attempts to restrict the freedoms guaranteed to eu citizens, the extension of the deadline for exemptions for future new members and the idea of introducing a permanent ban are a blow to both the eu's integration fabric and the community's economy. freedom of movement for workers is true freedom when it is motivated by necessity and when it is a matter of choice, it must not be caused by poverty. the no-touch-the-fundament view is shared by almost all parties in the european parliament, with the exception of the eurosceptics with their mantra about the impact of migrants on the social system, unconfirmed numbers and facts. surveys have confirmed that migrant workers go for work and not for benefits. they are usually higher net contributors to national budgets than the domestic population. their work and contributions are also paid by populist wings with a lot of untruths, of which, unfortunately, primarily for internal political and even party reasons, neither the large, old, serious and established political parties are vaccinated. in conclusion, labour migration is one of the keys to the success of the european economy and to building a better, more dynamic society.
written. - i regret that one of the fundamental human rights and values on which the european union is founded must be discussed in this way. i also regret that this fundamental issue is being used in this way for pre-election purposes. it creates a false image of mass migration for welfare purposes. the debate that is being forced upon us is not a debate on freedom of movement, it is directed against the idea of this european union. we're the ones who have to steer this discussion in the right direction. social welfare is not an absolute right for everyone who comes to a certain country, there are criteria, there are conditions that applicants for social benefits must meet. and there are different levels of welfare. ladies and gentlemen, in order to defend the foundations of europe, let us turn the debate in the right direction and show the citizens the facts.
written. - economic crisis is a difficult period to which each country reacts in its own way. while some member states are trying to emerge from the crisis through structural economic reforms, others are reacting inadequately to union citizens whose right to free movement and work within the union is being undermined. one of the fundamental principles of the european union is solidarity, while the freedom of movement of its citizens is one of the four fundamental freedoms to enter the union market. in this way, some workers have been given the chance to move from parts of the union where there is no work to parts where there is a need for labor. it maintains the balance and stability of the economy. at the moment, there are as many as 3 million jobs open in europe that some member states cannot fill without employing migrant workers. in this situation, the extremely low rate of mobility of european workers of less than 3% is of additional concern. the eu's citizens are not the only ones who are affected by the migration crisis. their employment means a contribution to the national economies of those countries. instead of restricting movement, it is necessary to promote equal rights, opportunities, standards and conditions for all workers in the union, regardless of their nationality. this is the only way to achieve prosperity for all citizens and the full economic potential of the union.
written. − freedom of movement for workers is one of the four fundamental freedoms of the eu and is enshrined in article 45 tfeu. it shall entail the abolition of discrimination based on nationality between workers of the member states in respect of employment, remuneration and other conditions of work and employment. in the context of current debates in some eu member states on the possibilities of restricting the right of free movement for citizens coming from recent member states, e.g. bulgaria, romania and poland, it is important to emphasise that they have gone through a transitional period under the formula (2+3+2 years) during which conditions restricting the freedom of movement of workers were applied. the republic of croatia also agreed in the accession negotiations to a similar formula, which aims to gradually introduce the free movement of workers in the member states over a period of seven years. i believe that the rhetoric and eventual announcements of measures aimed at restricting freedom of movement do not contribute to good relations between countries and are contrary to the eu acquis. taking into account the fact that only around 2,8% of the total eu population benefits from this freedom, it is necessary to recall that freedom of movement within the eu member states is one of the key achievements of the union. the commission should also be able to monitor the implementation of the union's financial instruments and to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance.
mr. vice president, citizenship is a legal category that carries within it a very concrete content the relationship of the individual and the sovereign state. that relationship brings with it not only rights and privileges but also responsibilities. citizenship also carries with it a historical legacy, it carries the value of citizenship, political rights, and it is the backbone of democracy. the maltese government has directly denied all of the above by enacting amendments to the citizenship act that allow the sale of citizenship, thereby reducing citizenship to a mere commodity. of course, the policy of acquiring citizenship is a matter for each country, but european citizenship is also at stake. maltese and european passport holders have the right to travel without a visa to more than 160 countries worldwide and therefore this act is unacceptable and unacceptable.
written. - the sale of citizenship is contrary to eu values. the eu is founded on citizenship and the rights that flow from it. in this way, a new kind of inequality is created. when citizenship is sold for material and political gain, the level of trust in the member state is weakened and the eu's external relations are disrupted. it also creates inequalities among eu citizens themselves who are not yet in the schengen area. in the context of the economic crisis, the example of malta, the ads that are published in some media and so on, send us a serious message and show irresponsibility in acting for short-term economic or political benefits. the eu is built on solidarity. even when something is within the domain of national legislation, it is worth thinking about the impact that a given procedure will have on the rest of the eu citizens because of schengen. these people are not just buying the privilege of movement in one member state, but in all member states.
written. − in order to preserve the values and objectives of the european union, i believe that it is necessary to raise awareness of what eu citizenship entails and to work on strengthening european identity. i believe that citizenship, and therefore citizenship, must be taken very seriously and that no one can put a price on it, but ultimately the question of citizenship in a member state is a matter for that same state; it is its sovereign right. i agree with the thesis that the european union would set a precedent by intervening, but it is necessary to call on all member states to comply with international rules and european treaties. the criteria and conditions for acquiring citizenship are not set without reason, and this way of "selling" could result in disturbance of the own market (real estate, goods, services), as well as the european union market, and criminal acts, or misuse of such programs, such as money laundering, are not excluded. this kind of commercialisation should be reviewed and not undermined by the schengen borders in this way because if there are consequences, they will be reflected on the whole european union.
written. − since its inception, the european union has been a model for raising human rights standards. the treaty of lisbon further confirmed the guarantee it provides in respect of human rights, democratic principles, solidarity and security. the eu is at the very top of the world's democracies with a high level of civilization, primarily in non-discrimination. the sale of citizenship on the basis of the material status of those interested in such a purchase is a concrete example of discrimination. such purchases allow free movement within the union as well as all the other benefits of a system that has long developed to its present level. while the commission is dealing with the question of whether the sale of citizenship is legal or not, it is for parliament to further debate the issue and consider its far-reaching consequences and impact, including the moral aspect, the human destiny and ultimately the fairness of such a decision. the commission considers that the contested decision does not constitute a manifest error of assessment. it is necessary to send a clear message to all member states, as well as to those aspiring to become such, that such practices are in strict contradiction with the union's fundamental principles and as such cannot and must not be accepted or supported.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the citizens of malta are not subject to the same treatment as nationals of other member states. the objective pursued by the current government of malta is to bring revenues to the country by attracting potential investors, although there is no guarantee that foreigners will actually make investments if they acquire citizenship. malta does not take into account that the sale of citizenship is also the sale of european citizenship and that its citizens have the right to travel, work and live in all member states without restrictions. in view of malta's status as a schengen state and its visa-free regime with the united states, this poses an even greater threat to the functioning and breaches of confidence between member states. another big problem is that this law allows foreigners to buy citizenship without having to reside in malta and foreign investors are not required to pay taxes, which will make malta a tax haven and encourage money laundering. the law is not the best solution, say critics of the opposition and the protests held in malta. unfortunately, this decision puts european citizenship on sale as a commodity and depends solely on the bank account of individuals, without any other criteria.
written. - some say money can buy everything. some eu member states have sent a message that this is indeed the case. by selling our eu citizenship, we have put a price on the european union, on a peace project that is priceless. at the moment, to acquire citizenship in malta, all that is required is just over one million euros. since i believe that financial status should not be a criterion for acquiring the citizenship of an eu member state, i supported this resolution. malta is not the only country to have such programs. the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the proposed measures on the financial stability of the union. but this is a much smaller problem, since at least a residency requirement is required before such status can be obtained. in the case of malta, investors do not have to set foot in the eu and can obtain eu citizenship and a passport. all they need is a million euros per person.
written. − i am aware that under the eu treaties the issue of residence and citizenship is regulated by national legislation, but i am nonetheless concerned by the decisions of certain member states to take steps to introduce the 'real sale' of citizenship. since croatia has paid for its independence through war and has come a long way towards european integration, i feel the need to call on all member states to act responsibly in preserving common values. i would remind you that citizenship is not only about rights but also about responsibilities, and that we must all be careful about how we use our powers, because eu citizenship should never become a commodity.
mr vice-president, the european union has indeed made great strides on the difficult road which will eventually bring serbia and kosovo into the fold of the european family. i appreciate the efforts of serbia and kosovo on their european path and welcome the compromises they are making. having said that, i would like to stress and particularly appeal to serbia, but also to the commission, to respond to croatia in the negotiation process to the questions that are still open and important to it, namely: to uncover the graves of another 1 700 missing in the war, to open and return to croatia the secret service archives in which the communist crimes of the former state were concealed, to return to croatia cultural property that was stolen during the war and, finally, to respect the rights of minorities, especially in the case of the croatian minority.
written. - i support the report by mr kacin which, in its final form with the adopted amendments, provides an objective and comprehensive picture of serbia's progress. the progress made by serbia in 2013 in its relations with kosovo and on its path to eu membership is truly significant. nevertheless, a number of reforms are still needed, primarily concerning judicial reform and the fight against corruption, a break with certain values from the past that are strictly contrary to the values of the european union, the protection of the rights of all minorities ethnic, national and sexual, addressing open issues with neighbouring countries and many others. in the case of croatia, open bilateral issues are still numerous and primarily relate to border issues, missing persons issues, opening of the sfry archives, as well as the return of art. the agreement with kosovo and the negotiations with the european union serve as a framework within which serbia can implement the aforementioned reforms in order to achieve the goal of full membership of the union and complete european integration.
written. − i welcome serbia's progress, namely that a stable serbia is needed by south east europe as much as by all the countries in the region, but it should be stressed that a commitment to reform and a high level of accountability are key. but i don't want to ignore the need to open the archives and find missing persons from the civil war. these people are not only the concern of croatia today, but they are treated as missing citizens of the european union. so i want serbia to progress but also in economic terms i want serbia to have a clean start.
written. − i voted against this report because i support the opening of eu negotiations with serbia in principle, not because i believe that serbia has made significant progress in applying european values, but because i think that it will only reach that level through the arduous process of negotiations and fulfilling the conditions for membership. however, i cannot agree with the description of the bilateral relations between croatia and serbia because i believe that they cannot be called 'good' as stated in the report. i must note that these relations have not changed since the war period because serbia continues to hide data on the existence of camps for croats on its territory, missing persons, minefields in croatia and the responsibility of the jna top and intelligence structures for launching a war campaign against slovenia, croatia and bih. in addition, serbia has occupied the šarengrad adja, the danube adja near vukovar and the trans-danube territory of the republic of croatia for almost two decades after the end of the war in croatia, and has banned croatian citizens from accessing their own agricultural land and private property. i would like to express the hope that it is precisely serbia's accession negotiations on eu membership that will bring these issues to the fore and force that country to face its past and give back to croatia what belongs to it.
written. - i support the european path of kosovo and its citizens. i believe that the european union's dialogue with south-east europe is extremely important. if we want the well-being of our citizens and the progress of this part of europe, which is an important geopolitical area, we must help them along the way. there is a big role to be played by accepting local responsibility in this area, and i think yesterday's debate in this house showed that there is progress in this area. the european way is also a democratic way, and i am therefore convinced that kosovo will know and be able to implement all that this way offers. i support this text and i support the willingness of the kosovo leaders to cooperate and to have an open dialogue.
written. - i would like to thank rapporteur lunaček for her work on this report, which i support. the report provides a comprehensive overview of the current situation in kosovo, highlighting areas where progress has been made as well as those where progress still needs to be made. the recent events in north mitrovica just before the vote on this report are the best evidence of this. among other things, further reorganisation of public administration, reform of the judiciary and the fight against corruption, closer cooperation between the legislature and the executive, and the creation of a favourable economic climate for economic growth are needed. the fact that kosovo still does not have its own internet domain or telephone code proves that the road to full affirmation is long. the signed agreement with serbia, as well as this report, provides a framework for action to enable the necessary reforms and achieve full cooperation with minorities within kosovo and with countries in the region by the european union and thus achieve the european vision of kosovo.
written. - this year, 2013, is a very good year for south-eastern europe. first of all, croatia became a full member of the eu, serbia was given a date for negotiations and kosovo adopted a stabilisation and association agreement. the success of the eu-sponsored belgrade-pristina agreement, of course with the assistance of mrs ashton, should be particularly emphasised. serbia's turnaround towards kosovo is a good start, but the serbian constitution still treats kosovo as part of serbia, and five member states still haven't recognized kosovo. therefore, alongside the necessary reforms related to the reform of the public administration and above all the judiciary, it will take a lot of commitment and wisdom for kosovo to persevere on the european path and join the countries of free europe.
written. − the european integration of kosovo is a major challenge and i think we must do everything to give this young democracy a european perspective. while kosovo has made some progress in establishing the rule of law and a market economy, it still faces major reforms in these and many other areas. what will probably remain in focus for some time when it comes to the political situation in kosovo is the coexistence of the two largest ethnic groups. although milosevic's policies are the main culprit for the war and suffering in that part of europe, i believe that respect for the rights of the serbian people in kosovo will be the main test of maturity for that country. the cultural heritage, which is a sign of the centuries-old serbian presence in that area and an indisputably important part of kosovo's cultural identity, must be protected and must not be the subject of reprisals for past crimes.
written. − despite the decision of the new icelandic government to put negotiations with the european union on hold until the icelandic people have a say in the referendum, the eu does not intend to reduce its efforts to improve relations with iceland and to resolve outstanding issues so that the icelandic people have no reason to doubt the protection of their interests within the eu. iceland is a very important strategic partner of the eu, as evidenced by the european economic area and the schengen area and a range of common interests in the areas of renewable energy and climate change, as well as the strategic importance of the eu's arctic policy. the commission has also concluded that the icelandic authorities have not provided sufficient evidence to support the claim that the icelandic authorities have not complied with the requirements of the acquis. i believe that we need to step up cooperation on key areas of particular importance to iceland, such as fisheries, free movement of capital and arctic policy, and find a common solution. in addition, due to the very poor results of the public opinion poll on eu accession, additional efforts are needed to raise the level of awareness of the citizens of iceland about the unities of the eu and the benefits it brings.
written. − croatia is a young eu member that has recently been going through a long and complex process of accession to the european union, and i therefore welcome the significant progress made by iceland, where all chapters have been opened since the opening of negotiations in 2010, 11 of which have been temporarily closed. i am aware of the fact that the newly elected government of iceland has suspended the accession process in order to discuss developments in the national parliament and decide whether to continue its path by means of a possible national referendum. i note that iceland has generally good capacity in terms of assuming the obligations arising from membership and express my wish that iceland continue and complete the process of accession to the european union and welcome the possibility of iceland being the new eu member, as a country with a well-established democracy, strong institutions and civil society.
written. − mr president, i welcome this report in the hope that it will be an additional incentive for the new government and the people of iceland to embark on the path towards becoming a full member of the european union. iceland changed government in the last democratic election. the new government has decided to suspend accession negotiations with the eu until a national referendum on the issue is held. it is very important to point out that iceland is already well integrated into the eu as a member of multinational european organisations: the european economic area (eea), the schengen area, the european free trade association (efta) and nato.
written. - i would like to express my concern about the situation in sudan. i especially condemn the use of any type of violence that we've been witnessing more and more of lately. the situation is of concern because, in addition to the direct impact on local civil society, which is the figure of more than 400,000 displaced persons, it is also a problem on an international level. in addition to working hard on democratic change, civil society needs to be able to deliver adequate humanitarian aid and basic food supplies. i hereby make clear that i consider the current situation to be inappropriate and i support further efforts by the eu to change such a situation to the benefit of the people of sudan.
written. - i supported the adoption of the resolution on the situation in south sudan and condemn the recent outbreak of conflict and call for an immediate cessation of violence which is causing human casualties and threatens to destabilise the wider region. only three years after international recognition, the situation in south sudan continues to be a cause for concern and the humanitarian, security and political crisis has repercussions for the situation in the east african region. i am committed to respecting international humanitarian law and to ending human rights violations and abuses. i support the efforts of the un mission to date, the engagement of the african union and the intergovernmental authority on development (igad) in circumstances where, according to the latest estimates, more than 10 000 people have been killed in south sudan, while more than 50 000 have fled the country and more than 400 000 have been displaced. i am of the opinion that the eu high representative should continue to engage intensively politically, directly and through the special representative for the horn of africa, mr alexandre rondos, in undertaking diplomatic efforts with a view to finding a solution to the conflict. i also believe that the humanitarian efforts of the european commission announced by commissioner georgijeva in the amount of 50 million euros for food, water and medicine constitute a significant contribution from the european union, in addition to the 170 million euros already donated in humanitarian aid.
written. - in the last month we have witnessed a major crisis taking place in south sudan, which unfortunately has resulted in 1,000 deaths and more than 200,000 displaced to neighbouring countries. i am concerned about the rapid deterioration of the security and humanitarian crisis resulting from the political conflict and violence in the country, which seriously threatens the stability and long-term security of south sudan, as well as the stability and security of the region as a whole. we also witness violations of human rights and the lack of basic necessities for civilians. we must focus on humanitarian action to cover the basic necessities of life and help all civilians in need. we also need to help the new state in its transition to a democratic state, based on respect for human rights, the rule of law and accountability to ensure decent living conditions. it is the policy of the european union to promote prosperity, cooperation and peace in this region and throughout the world, and i believe this is a problem that requires urgent solution to avoid greater disasters and greater suffering of civilians.
written. − homelessness is perhaps the most severe form of poverty, but it is only at the turn of the millennium that it has begun to emerge as a topic of particular interest on the european political agenda. the significance of the problem is unquestionable. as many as 116 million people in the eu live in or near poverty. the eu 2020 strategy calls for a reduction of 20 million. the commission has therefore decided to make a contribution of up to 20% of the social fund. however, the problem of homelessness is much broader than economic aspects. the solution, as always, is to look at the causes in order to act preventively, and according to a study conducted in my country in 2010, the main causes are domestic violence, poor health, followed by job loss, debt and so on. the solution is to improve health care, legal services, not just increase the number of beds in shelters. the complexity of the problem is shown by the fact that in croatia, for example, about 95% of homeless people have a significant work experience. that's why i insist that homelessness should not be criminalized or that these people be degraded as less worthy or less capable. it is precisely because of the complexity of the problem that i believe a strategic approach is needed to tackle it, and it is in this context that i support this initiative.
written. − i voted for the eu strategy to combat homelessness because i feel it is my duty to confront a problem that leads to a total loss of human dignity. unfortunately, over a thousand of my fellow citizens are sleeping on the streets tonight, and many more eu citizens are homeless tonight, and their numbers are growing by the day. i consider it extremely important that the commission strongly and effectively help and encourage the member states and their local authorities to prevent any of our fellow citizens from living in inhumane conditions. preventing further criminalisation of homeless people, tackling the problem of housing them and preventing the emergence of homelessness are key provisions of this resolution which i consider a step forward in the fight for equality for all citizens of europe.
written. - the crisis in europe has hit the weakest and most vulnerable members of society hardest. this includes the homeless, who are struggling to break out of the vicious circle of poverty and are more deprived in their search for work, as they often lack access to basic civilization amenities such as sanitation, laundry facilities, or internet access. they are also more exposed than any other social group to stereotypes, prejudices and fears of other people. there are no official statistics on the number of homeless people in europe, but all estimates suggest that the number has increased during the crisis. unofficial figures of as many as 3 million homeless whose life expectancy is nearly 25 years below the national average are alarming and call for action. i therefore support the creation of a european strategy on homelessness and stress the need to improve national legislation in the member states, especially in those where the concept of homelessness is not yet defined by law. in addition to coordinated action at national and european level, homeless people may also need help at local level. i would like to highlight a good example of a program to help the homeless, like the magazine street lights in croatia, where the homeless share their life stories, helping to combat discrimination and using half of the proceeds from sales to help those who need it most.
written. − one of the main objectives of the europe 2020 strategy is to remove at least 20 million people from the risk of poverty and social exclusion. this is why the huge efforts of the member states of the european union should also be directed at reducing homelessness. there are now 10 million more people in the european union than in 2005 at risk of becoming homeless. homelessness is one of the worst forms of poverty and social exclusion and certainly has devastating consequences for society as a whole and is present in all countries. i therefore support the proposal to call on the commission to use the easi (employment and social innovation) programme and to further strengthen its cooperation with european partners such as feantsa and habitact. in croatia, there is no law regulating the status and rights of the homeless, and there is no national housing program to regulate their rights.
written. - homelessness is a violation of human dignity and human rights, as it is the right to exist of every human being. i find it a bit sad that in today's so-called advanced world, every person is not provided with basic living conditions. homelessness should be a policy priority of the european union whose institutions should address the monitoring of homelessness, improve knowledge of policies and services for homelessness, and prepare and further develop an eu strategy on homelessness. however, the most urgent need is for a functioning and effective social policy in each member state, which should aim at cooperating with the relevant aid organisations, in order to provide counselling and accommodation to the homeless and to combat the marginalisation of these people. of course, there are always cases that are difficult to control, but they should be the exception. sadly, today we are seeing a rise in homelessness, which may mean that something is wrong with the system itself, either at the national or the community level. still, it would be best to strengthen welfare states and thereby reduce the number of homeless.
mr president, as we have already heard from the commissioner, a large number of citizens of the european union, some 14 million of them, do not live in their home member state but elsewhere within the union. when you add to this the multitude of eu citizens who, for business, education or tourism, are temporarily resident outside their home country, the number increases considerably. it is precisely because of the scale of this problem, and the growing number of citizens and companies directly affected by the procedure for adopting certain public documents within the european union, that i support the involvement and discussion of the competent institutions on this issue. i welcome the initiative to increase the number of public documents covered by the proposal, for example health insurance-related documents, or to introduce additional multilingual forms for cross-border use, such as educational certificates. as the newest member of the european union, croatia is particularly interested in the regulation of this issue at european level, as its citizens in most countries still face the need to issue a multitude of documents. numerous studies have demonstrated and proved the benefits of mobility and the free movement of citizens. these are fundamental rights and some of the union's founding principles, which have been promoted for a long time and successfully by many programmes, of which i would like to highlight erasmus+, for example. this is why we should support any additional regulation aimed at simplifying mobility and reducing the financial burden on citizens. of course, this is not something to hide, with the proper checks and balances in place.
mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, bringing the european union closer to its citizens is also a central problem of european integration. this is best seen in the run-up to the european parliament elections. citizens want to feel, in their daily lives, firsthand what it means to be a citizen of the european union and what positive changes and added value it brings. if we are talking about the right to freedom of movement in any member state as one of those potential positive changes that citizens hope for, then we must definitely consider this motion for a resolution as a step forward in achieving those objectives. enabling people and businesses to move, live, study and work freely without excessive formal and bureaucratic burdens is a necessary prerequisite for the establishment of the single market. in order to achieve this, it is necessary to establish a certain degree of trust and coordination between member states. one of the aims of this proposal is precisely that. it reflects the need of people and business within the european union, as commissioner reding pointed out in her introduction. the mechanisms for achieving this kind of trust are very well developed in this proposal, but it should be stressed that, on the other hand, more efforts are needed to develop mechanisms to prevent possible abuses of the simplification of the adoption of public documents, which could potentially undermine this trust between member states.
mr president, vice-president karas, ms commissioner reding, today's report, presented to us by mr rapkay, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the promotion of freedom of movement for citizens and businesses by facilitating the adoption of certain public documents within the european union, goes to the very heart of what we call one of the four fundamental freedoms, which is the freedom of movement of persons. the fact is that today, after more than 60 years of joint cooperation, we must make efforts to facilitate the freedom of movement and the recognition of documents for our citizens in the simplest and least costly way possible, through legislative proposals like this one, at a horizontal level. as a former diplomat and attorney, i am well versed in the business of legalization and apostille. we all know that they require both time and cost, and the fact is that it is estimated that this act alone should save more than eur 330 million. this is not a small amount of money, but a considerable relief for our citizens in situations where documents are recognised, whether it be copies, birth certificates, marriage certificates or a range of other legal documents that they can and must use in other member states. this would also avoid indirect discrimination. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the measure is compatible with the internal market. i therefore believe that, while maintaining legal certainty and ensuring good control and verification, it is precisely this kind of act at european union level that will make life easier for our citizens. (the spokesperson agrees to answer the question raised by raising the blue card (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer the question posed by raising the blue card. thank you, dear colleague rübig, you have now highlighted one of these operational issues, which i mentioned in my speech, namely how to alleviate both costs and administrative obstacles for citizens, especially when it comes to treating patients in other member states. i believe that this proposal is in search of such opportunities and facilitation and, of course, i believe that this requires an additional anagram from the european commission and our rapporteur, because these are the examples where citizens would feel that legislative action, here specifically secondary action, makes their lives easier. i support your suggestion.
mr. president, we face bureaucratic obstacles in our lives every day. the degree of accessibility and serviceability of the bureaucracy varies from one member state to another. in some of them, the battle of the counters and the receipts is a real nightmare. it is even more difficult for foreigners, citizens of other countries, who do not speak the language and do not know the administrative practices of the host country. the european union is often seen as a bureaucratic apparatus that is not happy until it regulates everything from vacuum cleaners to light bulbs, from birth to death. this report is an opportunity to show our citizens how the union can ease their administrative burden and life outside their home member state. i therefore support the measures in this report, such as the abolition of the mandatory certification of photocopies and the unnecessary payment of certified translations. simplified procedures for the cross-border acceptance of public documents will save citizens a lot of time, nerves and money.
mr president, more than 12.5 million citizens in the european union live outside their country of origin, in other member states, and this is, of course, the fruit of freedom of movement. however, that freedom can also be limited by oversized, overpriced, overcomplicated administration. often member states require citizens to provide certified translations of official documents, and this of course makes it more expensive not only for citizens but also for the business community and their businesses. according to the european commission, almost 100 000 documents need to be certified annually because of such requirements by the member states. i therefore support this report and the commission's proposal to end the practice of requiring certified translations. i think it's good for our citizens and, of course, for our businesses and the competitiveness of our economy.
mr president, commissioner, one of the objectives at eu level is to increase and integrate eu mobility. through various policies, such as the youth on the move initiative, it seeks to enhance and standardise the quality of education in particular, so that diplomas and other qualifications can be recognised as easily as possible between member states. however, once such mutual recognition has been achieved, the document verification process is in many cases lengthy and costly. overloaded administration, often degenerating into bureaucracy, makes it very difficult to achieve the fundamental freedoms on which the union is built. i therefore support this report and hope that the need to remove administrative barriers to the authentication, translation and verification of documents will be recognised in all member states.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur again for the work done by himself and by the committee on legal affairs (juri). just as the juri committee’s report says, the commission wants to abolish needless requirements for accepting peoples’ public documents as real in another member state. with such a proposal, citizens will no longer need to get hold of an apostille stamp within the european union. they will no longer have to get legalised versions of their documents. they will no longer need to present a certified copy together with the original public document, and they will no longer need certified translations. we are doing this for many categories of public documents, focusing on the most important ones like birth and parenthood certificates, and this should not be weakened by limiting the types of documents which have a direct impact on cutting red tape for citizens and companies. just speak with people who lead companies in border areas, and they will tell you how much energy and money is lost in useless red tape. that is why the commission cannot accept amendments 50 and 51. of course, we still have safeguards in place against possible fraudulent use of documents, to avoid abuse of the system. this is very important, because the safeguards today are not very high: you can simply forge a document and there is no communication between the administrations in two member states to check whether the document is forged or not, when there is doubt. what we are changing now is that where there is reasonable doubt about the authenticity of a public document, the authorities of the member state where the document is presented may submit, via the internal market information system, a request to the issuing authority for information verifying the authenticity of said document. by the way, administrative cooperation between member states using this tool, which was developed in 2008, has proved its efficiency. it is successfully used under six union legal instruments. it can also be used for the purpose we are discussing today. an additional tool for checking the authenticity of national public documents will be the repository of models of national public documents provided by the imi. this repository will enable member state authorities to carry out the first check on the authenticity of a public document, thereby helping to prevent fraud and forgery. this is very important, because what we are seeing today is an inability to fight fraud. we need to establish this ability, just as we need also to get rid of red tape, which is absolutely unnecessary. i would like to underline – for those who might not have read the report by the juri committee – that our measures do not deal with the recognition of the effects or, in other words, with the content of those public documents.
written. the rapporteur's proposal aims to allow the free circulation of public documents within the eu member states, thus simplifying the lives of citizens and businesses. i believe that today, when many eu member states are still recovering from the financial crisis, simplifying the way business is done can be a positive change towards removing the administrative barriers that citizens across the eu face today. the unanimous adoption of this report by the legal affairs committee of the european parliament confirmed the consensus of all political groups to remove unnecessary administrative barriers, as the movement of both citizens and businesses is one of the four fundamental freedoms on which the eu is based. in order to avoid fraud, it is necessary to support the commission's proposal for an imi system, a system already in use in some activities, which would allow member states to assist each other in such a way that the issuing authority guarantees the authenticity of the documents. today, when young people have the erasmus and erasmus+ programmes at their disposal, we must also take care of them, because many of them live outside their country for the purpose of studying or working. participants in such programmes who have been in contact with eu member states' administrative bodies know the importance of simplifying procedures, especially when it comes to university administration, tax administration and health insurance.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the member states are able to participate in the eu pilot, and that the number of infringement procedures is reduced. it is also important that the commission follows its obligations under the revised framework agreement governing relations with parliament, which commits the commission to make available to parliament summarised information relating to infringement proceedings. parliament's access to the preliminary infringement procedure, as well as to the infringement procedure itself, is one of the key issues, which should also be placed on the agenda for the future interinstitutional agreement. speaking as a social democrat on the question of subsidiarity and proportionality discussed in mr karima's report, i think there are certain clauses that would be good to change. i believe that further consideration is needed on the social aspects, the report and the social partnership and that better law does not mean that we have to have a lot of legislation, but implies the efficiency of the system, taking into account social aspects, workers' rights, freedom of movement and non-discrimination.
madam president, commissioner reding, this joint debate on the 29th report on the monitoring of the application of european union law is also relevant for croatia, although it relates to 2011, because right at the beginning of our membership we had a situation with the transposition of the framework decision on the european arrest warrant, where, if it had been possible to initiate an infringement procedure at that time, the commission would probably have initiated it, thus only thanks to the political dialogue with the european commission, the badly transposed law was adequately corrected. as regards the second point, namely the appropriateness of the regulation, subsidiarity and proportionality, i believe that the role of national parliaments is extremely important and that the control of the implementation of the principle of subsidiarity, whether by using a yellow or orange card, should be exercised by national parliaments in a very professional but also political way, and i expect that the croatian parliament will also start to use this practice in the coming months.
madam president, the reason for errors and irregularities in the application of eu law in the member states is often a lack of time and a large number of different regulations whose timely transposition and implementation require greater administrative capacity in the member states. the european commission should devote more time and resources to monitoring, education and information in order to make the take-up process as high-quality as possible, and member states should pay more attention to monitoring implementation. the impact assessment of the regulation is a very important mechanism that allows to identify at the outset the sustainability and feasibility of the regulation and to determine qualitatively the timeframe needed for implementation in view of the fiscal capacities of the member states. the introduction of impact assessments will allow for a better and more realistic timing of the transposition and start of the implementation of new regulations.
madam president, accession to the european union opens up numerous opportunities for economic growth and development of the republic of croatia. however, the republic of croatia is facing a problem of excessive deficit and debt, a continuing fall in exports, a lack of investment and rising unemployment. only serious short- and long-term measures and the implementation of structural reforms can reverse the situation and the negative trends. at the european union level, the european semester was introduced as a mechanism to direct the fiscal policies of the member states to address national problems in the best possible way. i call on the european commission to take particular account of the link between the nrp and the partnership agreement when making specific recommendations to the member states, as these two documents should be harmonised by any member state that is strongly influenced by cohesion policy. this will contribute to the adoption of uniform strategic documents and policies, which use different sources of funding to achieve the same objectives. that is the best way to develop the less developed member states.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to draw your attention to the potential threat to human health that we face every day. when we buy a new coat, shirt, or other article of clothing, we are not even aware that we may be bringing dangerous and harmful chemicals into our home. a number of things are used in textile processing that can have devastating effects on human health. these are chemicals that, depending on the type and concentration, can cause changes ranging from itching to cancer. a greenpeace study has revealed a worrying prevalence of chemical-contaminated clothing in european shops. you're wrong if you think buying more expensive, branded clothing is a safe purchase. even children's articles are not spared. i believe that this problem should be investigated, and systematically, and if it proves necessary to take urgent action at european level to protect the health and consumer rights of citizens.
madam president, as a christian democrat, of course i am in favour of respecting the dignity of every human person and therefore there must be no tolerance for homophobia, but when i hear a colleague from spain criticizing the referendum on marriage in croatia, where two thirds of the citizens who voted in the referendum voted for such a constitutional definition of marriage, i really wonder if the purpose of this debate is to protect personal freedoms or perhaps to open ideological conflicts before the european elections because you really will not change the constitutional definition of marriage in croatia through the european parliament, which has not endangered anyone's rights. bottom line, i would say that you should remember that even pope francis supported this constitutional definition of marriage, and gay magazines named him person of the year. that is why this kind of debate is pointless and should have no place in this parliament.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, these days we have been bombarded by emails from citizens against this report, with the false argument that we want to give lgbti people some additional rights. this report does not call for additional rights but seeks to ensure that their fundamental human rights are protected. lgbti people are discriminated against and abused in their daily activities. one in four is physically assaulted, and only 22% would report violence to the police. it's a shame for today's society. the idea that we all have a duty to ensure equality for all members of our community is taught in the family, the community and the school. the civic education program that has recently been implemented in my country of croatia is a positive example. students say that it has made them more aware of their rights and responsibilities in their community. however, ladies and gentlemen, we have a great deal of work to do and we must support this report in accordance with european and human values.
madam president, the effective functioning of the european union's single market rests on common rules, but they must be implemented in the same way in all member states. this needs to be clearly emphasised in the context of this discussion. i think the most important message of this report is that there are significant differences in the application of the directive from one member state to another. i would point out that croatia has harmonised its national legislation almost within the time limit applicable to the member states themselves, just after the adoption of the directive. i consider it important, in the spirit of this directive, to strengthen the role of consumer associations and to enable them to strengthen their capacity to express their rights. the commission has also received comments from the applicant, which has not provided any evidence to support its claim. i would highlight the example of the consumer victory in the elimination of late bill warning fees, the reduction of interest rates and monthly loan installments, and the elimination of the telephone bill collection fee. the consumer protection legislation cited by many associations is based on this directive and i therefore welcome the commission's future efforts to ensure its proper implementation in the member states.
member of the commission. - madam president, the unfair commercial practices directive is indeed the main tool at eu level to regulate misleading advertising and unfair practices in business-to-consumer relations. the commission has produced its first assessment of the application of this directive in the member states in a communication and report adopted on 14 march 2013. the commission outlined on this occasion further actions necessary to maximise its benefits for consumers. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent work on this report. we agree essentially on what needs to be done. first, enforcement needs to be improved so that equal and high levels of consumer protection are ensured across the eu. that is why the commission will keep monitoring legislative developments in the member states and ensure that national transposition measures are correct. having launched a broad transposition check back in 2011, the commission is already engaged in a constructive dialogue with the relevant national authorities to ensure that the law is in place and that it is enforced. second, the commission will also seek to facilitate closer and more targeted cooperation between national authorities. to this end, the commission is organising thematic workshops with national enforcement authorities on key areas identified in the report. in addition we are reviewing guidance documents on the application of the unfair commercial practices directive. the commission will adopt a revised guidance document by the end of 2014 to help enforcement authorities in their work. third, the commission is also developing a unified consumer law database. this database should become an important tool for legal practitioners in the field of consumer protection law. fourth, we want to strengthen the effectiveness of the consumer protection cooperation network; to promote coordinated enforcement actions under the responsibility of commissioner mimica. we are reviewing the ways and means of this network. and finally, on 11 june 2013, the commission adopted a communication and a recommendation on collective redress in which it recommends that member states have collective redress mechanisms at national level for injunctive and compensatory relief concerning violation of rights granted under union law. consumer expenditure amounts to 56% of eu gdp. consumer confidence plays a crucial role in economic growth. a strong eu consumer policy can indeed contribute to strengthening european consumer confidence in the single market. this bond of trust in turn can encourage more smes to invest and this is a ‘win-winʼ situation.
madam president, commissioner, i support the report by mr zwiefke on the analysis of the state of the judiciary in the european union in the field of civil and administrative law in the member states, because it gives a good assessment of the new tool developed and used by the european commission. in order to ensure that the union's judicial system is able to provide the necessary legal certainty, the commission should be able to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu in order to amend the provisions of this regulation. an effective judiciary is of paramount importance for citizens in the european union, but it is also crucial for the economic situation of the member states and their investment framework, and in a way a prerequisite for creating growth and jobs. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the progress of the work of the european parliament and the council in the field of judicial cooperation.
the commission has also proposed that the court of justice should be consulted on the application of the principle of proportionality. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council. so, once again, the european union will demonstrate that the rule of law and the independence of the judiciary are fundamental values. i also agree that member states should be involved in the process of developing the model on which the comparison would be made, and i would certainly advocate that member states be involved in the process of setting benchmarks in order to develop a unified understanding of the methodology and indicators. it is worth pointing out once again that some concepts such as the quality of the judiciary are difficult to measure objectively and therefore, taking into account the specificities of the development of the judiciary in each country, special attention should be paid to them. in any event, i support this report, the ultimate aim of which is to establish an even more effective mechanism of an independent judiciary, especially one that is independent of political influence.
madam president, a high-quality, efficient and independent judicial system in each member state can contribute to economic development and improve competitiveness and increase foreign investment. the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the legal framework on the functioning of the judicial system, in particular the legal framework for the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and the protection of privacy. the court of justice has consistently held that the principle of judicial independence is not a matter of principle and that the principle of judicial independence is not a matter of principle. i therefore support the exchange of best practices to ensure an efficient and independent judicial system that can contribute to europe's economic growth and increase its competitiveness. the commission should be able to assess the effectiveness of the system of judicial cooperation in the member states in the light of the experience gained in the field of judicial cooperation.
madam president, i support the report by mrs schroedter on the local and regional implications of the development of smart grids to enable the increasing uptake of renewable energy sources in the electricity systems of the member states and regions. the report takes as its starting point the promotion of a change in the paradigm of the regions in terms of the way energy is produced and consumed, by moving from a conventional model to a variable, decentralised and local production that integrates a large part of renewable energy sources from small-scale production. many member states will not be able to achieve their ambitious carbon reduction targets beyond 2020 without significant progress in the development of smart grids that need to integrate renewable sources into electricity systems. the achievement of the renewable energy targets will create 2.8 million new jobs by 2020, a large share of the european union economy. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 concerning the establishment of a european network for the exchange of information on the implementation of the union's policies and activities in the field of energy, in particular by means of implementing acts. i am sure that croatia will also take advantage of this in the period ahead.
madam president, smart grids are key to the development and use of renewable energy sources. the european union has set a target of at least 20% renewable energy in its total electricity generation in the 2020 strategy. the republic of croatia has the opportunity to use european funds to develop smart grids and increase the level of use of these cheap energy sources for households and production, thus reducing input costs and increasing competitiveness. studies show that the use of renewable energy sources also creates new jobs. smart grids are the way to achieve europe's goals: an energy-independent and competitive european union with as many jobs as possible.
madam president, allow me to express my support for this report, which i believe offers new opportunities for the regional economy and positive effects on local employment, and therefore on the socioeconomic status of the region, but also on climate change. it is essential that we promote new models of energy production and consumption, where local communities and citizens can become producers and consumers. the transition to variable, decentralised and local generation involves investing in smart energy networks, but also connecting the energy sector to other sectors in order to increase economic benefits and align regional energy supply and demand. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and to monitor the implementation of the new rules and regulations, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and regulations, including the implementation of the new rules and regulations.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a regulation on the european parliament and the council amending regulation (ec) no 1224/2009 on the common organisation of the market in fruit and vegetables (oj l 347, 20.12.2010, p. the republic of croatia has aligned its legislation with the acquis of the european union in the field of energy in accordance with the commitments undertaken. the commission notes that the measure is not intended to provide a guarantee for the renewable energy sector. the commission has also received comments from the croatian authorities, which have not provided any evidence that the project is being financed. the commission notes that the new law on the energy market is based on the principle of the 'one country, two systems' principle.
written. this report should serve as a guiding principle for any future legislative action in this and similar areas. it reflects in a long-term way on the consequences of one of the most important policies of the european union, the common agricultural policy. although the new cap brings improvements in the position of small farms, i agree with the rapporteur that this will not be enough to reverse the negative trends in rural areas, especially in the new member states. i come from a country where the average size of the farm is 5,6 hectares and even about 80% of farms are small (less than 5 hectares and have less than eur 8000 in income). we need to provide them with the economic and social infrastructure to adapt to market demands, not only with funds from the cap but also from the cohesion and european social funds, in cooperation with national and local authorities. they should be treated like other smes, because they provide a large number of jobs, prevent extreme poverty, provide food, etc. in addition to this productive function, they directly contribute to other public goods: the preservation of the european countryside and biodiversity, the preservation of folk customs and other intangible heritage, and the production of regional and traditional products. all of this contributes to the distinctiveness of one country from another, and that is something we need to protect and preserve.
madam president, it is particularly important to note the importance this report places on undocumented female migrants because it is women who are most often the victims of the various criminal acts that bring them into this position. instead of marginalizing these women in society, the european union should address the prevention of the problem of immigration at its source: in the countries of origin of the migrants. denying services and support to migrants already on european soil, such as health, education or access to justice, will not prevent others from attempting to cross the barriers the european union places on them. the union needs to plan its immigration policy, react in time and be ready for the arrival of both legal and illegal migrants. in addition to migrants without identity documents from third countries, it is necessary to talk about migrants without identity documents who are citizens of the european union. alarmingly, eurostat figures show that as many as 61% of identified victims of trafficking in human beings within the european union in the past year were eu citizens, the majority of whom were women.
mr president, let me first of all congratulate rapporteur mccarthy on her perseverance in producing this report, and all her colleagues who have been involved in finding a solution to this problem. the introduction of criminal sanctions here is an important innovation in the fight against market abuse. this is an important message after a series of scandals in the banking sector that we have witnessed and we are sending a strong message that we will not allow citizens to pay for the criminal behavior of market workers and that for this type of crime the perpetrators will go to prison which is the most effective measure of deterring the perpetrators from committing and a message about the level of social condemnation. this will be beneficial for justice and integrity in financial markets, which will restore confidence and this is equally important for all citizens of the european union. this directive shows that we are not blind to this problem but are determined to tackle it. but since no criminal law is meaningless without its consistent application, it is important to monitor how these criminal acts will actually be prosecuted.
written. - the kimberley process is an important innovative instrument in the fight against the blood diamond market. the european union is an active participant in the fight against such and other forms of financing of rebel movements and their allies involved in such criminal activities on the african continent. the involvement of the civil sector and industry in this process has been a good basis for creating an inclusive, cooperative and effective process, as evidenced by data showing that this process has been extremely successful in the 1990s as much as 15% of the world's diamond production was in the category of blood diamonds, and today this figure is less than 1%. i also welcome the commission's creative approach to linking greenland to the european union's certification scheme by associating greenland as an overseas territory.
written. - i support the report by mr vital moreira on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 2368/2002 concerning the inclusion of greenland in the implementation of the kimberley process certification programme. the kimberley process has proved to be a very successful instrument in the fight against 'war diamonds' that finance wars around the world, and the european union was tasked with initiating a process that would involve greenland in the implementation of the certification programme, even though it is not a separate country. at present, as much as 99.8% of all the world's rough diamonds are produced in kimberley process member states and it is desirable that as many countries as possible become involved in this programme. the territory of greenland is in a specific situation due to its geographical location and its political organisation. however, greenland is part of europe because it is included in the list of overseas countries and territories, which makes it closely linked to the european union. i support the inclusion of greenland in this process because it has the potential to benefit its economic development and the treaty on the functioning of the european union encourages the union's cooperation with overseas countries and the promotion of their economic and social development.
written. - the kimberley process is an important factor in regulating the import and export of rough diamonds. this amendment would involve greenland in the diamond certification procedure for exports to the eu. i supported this proposal because it is important to involve as many countries as possible in the kimberley process, which is an innovative way of combating diamond smuggling, especially from areas where the money so obtained is used to fight legally elected authorities. with the introduction of the kimberley process, the share of conflict-zone diamonds in the world market has decreased significantly. that is why i welcome the involvement of any country that wishes to be involved in this process.
written. - i support the report by mr vital moreira on the proposal for a council decision laying down the rules and procedures for the participation of greenland in the kimberley process certification process. this is a special regime for the trade of rough diamonds between greenland and the european union and the proposal also regulates the trade of rough diamonds between greenland and third countries in a way that is supervised by the union. in the light of the long-standing and special relationship between the eu and greenland and the increasing global importance of the arctic, it is important to initiate and implement the establishment of the rules and procedures for the participation of greenland in the kimberley process certification process under the proposed model, in the mutual interest of greenland and the european union.
written. - sepa is an interbank payment scheme that allows banks and other payment institutions participating in the single euro payments area to execute credit transfers according to standardised rules and procedures within that area. despite multiple efforts and strong campaigns on sepa migration by the european central bank and many member states, smes, smaller public administrations and local authorities are still not ready for a full migration. in view of the potentially severe consequences for citizens and businesses, the commission proposes to amend regulation (eu) no 260/2012 by introducing a vested rights clause allowing banks and other payment service providers to continue to process non-harmonised payments under legacy payment schemes together with intra-sepa credit transfers and intra-sepa direct debits for a period of six months after 1 february 2014. the commission notes that the bank of croatia has not provided any information on the number of credit cards issued by the bank of croatia to the public. compared to the same period last year, the total number of cards is down six percent. on the date of accession of croatia, a number of obligations from the legislative framework governing the financial services sector entered into force.
written. - i supported this proposal, which amends regulation 260/2012 establishing the transition from national credit transfer and direct debit schemes to harmonised intra-sepa credit transfer (sct) and intra-sepa direct debit (sdd) schemes, inter alia by providing union citizens with a single international bank account number (iban) that can be used for all euro-denominated scts and sdds. given that that regulation sets 1 february 2014 as the deadline for payment service providers and payment service users to adapt to the technical requirements entailing the transition to sepa credit transfers and sepa direct debits, and that in some member states the rates of transition to sepa are much lower than expected, i support the proposal to introduce a one-off transitional six-month period in order to avoid unnecessary disruption to payments.
written. - mr president, the increasing interconnectedness of the member states of the european union daily points to the obvious need for better coordination of a large number of our activities, particularly in the economic field. i have already spoken many times in this chamber about the importance of the functional integration of our common market, with particular emphasis on the need to eliminate as quickly as possible those shortcomings which clearly damage our economic system and which can be remedied by effective administrative and legal solutions. in this respect, the report by ms sharon bowles is an important component of the establishment of a single euro payments area (sepa), in which not only should we not, but we should not, differentiate between cross-border and national payments in euro. this report is a step towards breaking down another barrier between citizens in our community, this time in the financial domain, and i was very happy to support it because of its practical importance and usefulness. i thank mrs bowles for her efforts, particularly because this report was submitted to parliament under a simplified and accelerated procedure, and the rapporteur's responsibility was thus considerably increased.
written. - the cape town agreement aims to correct some of the provisions of the protocol which have caused difficulties in their implementation in several countries with larger fishing fleets. the commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down the detailed rules for the application of the measures referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 of this article. on the positive side, the agreement also allows the administration to exempt a vessel from the regulation requirements if the administration considers that compliance with the regulation would be impractical in view of the type of vessel, the weather conditions or the absence of a general danger, if the vessel complies with the necessary safety requirements and operates exclusively in the fishing zones described in the agreement. as the european union is not a signatory to the international maritime convention, it cannot be a signatory to the cape town agreement, but on the other hand, the member states cannot decide on their own to sign and ratify the agreement without the authorisation of the council on a proposal from the commission, with the consent of parliament, which i certainly support because i consider it right that the member states decide on this issue on their own. in croatia, as in the rest of the european union, the length of most fishing vessels is below 18 metres, so i believe that this agreement, which concerns only vessels of 24 metres and above, should be only the first step in a more ambitious project of a common security policy in the fisheries sector.
written. - i welcome the provisions of the cape town agreement as its implementation should contribute to improving the safety of fishing vessels. i also support the positive eu rules, which apply not only to member states with fishing vessels flying their flag, but also to third-country fishing vessels operating in their internal or territorial waters or landing their catch in their ports. these standards guarantee a common safety regime for all vessels and fair competition in eu waters. i believe that the entry into force of the cape town agreement will contribute to the safety of fishing vessels of 24 metres in length and above and pave the way for solving the problem of fishing vessels of less than 24 metres, which is the majority of fishing vessels, and in croatia, whose largest percentage of fishing fleets (almost 85%) is made up of vessels of less than 12 metres.
written. - i voted in favour of the rapporteur's proposal to support the cape town agreement of 2012 on the implementation of the 1993 protocol relating to the torremolinos international convention of 1977 on the safety of fishing vessels. i support the council's draft authorising member states to sign, ratify or accede to the agreement, all with a view to increasing the safety of fishing vessels. efforts should be made to increase maritime safety. the torremolinos protocol, which has not yet entered into force because the necessary conditions for its ratification have not been met, will thus enter into force. furthermore, the entry into force of the cape town agreement will allow for subsequent updating by submitting to the imo a proposal for several obsolete provisions of the torremolinos protocol.
written. - article 17 of the 1992 treaty on european union establishes the commission's fundamental role as the 'guardian of the treaty'. the commission has a duty to monitor the application of eu law and, where appropriate, to bring an infringement case against a member state that has failed to fulfil an obligation under the treaty. this maintains a legal order consistent with the union concept based on the rule of law. the commission has succeeded in reducing the number of new infringement proceedings in recent years. it opened 2900 such proceedings in 2009, 2100 in 2010 and 1775 in 2011. however, there has been an increase in late transfers over several years (1185 in 2011, 855 in 2010, 531 in 2009), most of which related to environment (17%), internal market (15%), transport (15%) and tax (12%). i believe that the implementation of the 'eu pilot' project should be more transparent for the complainants. the database containing all complaints should be made accessible. parliament must be able to monitor the commission in the area of monitoring the application of european union law. i believe that the participation of all member states in the eu pilot project is a sign that countries are also ready to cooperate in order to better enforce european law. in conclusion, i support this thorough report and stress the importance of good administrative practice within the european union.
written. - i support this report and i consider the subject matter extremely important. each member state is responsible for implementing european laws into national legislation. unfortunately, in the first months of its membership, croatia set a bad example by ignoring the european arrest warrant and passing a law that contradicts the european arrest warrant just before joining the eu. in this case, the european commission announced the initiation of a procedure to determine possible sanctions for infringement of the acquis, but the procedure nevertheless did not take place because croatia corrected the error by adopting a law in accordance with the european one. what i consider to be key in this example is the awareness of citizens of the benefits of european law. citizens are aware of the added value of the european union acquis and this should be the motivation for even closer cooperation in the field of the implementation of european legislation.
written. - the application of european union law is almost as important to the functioning of the union as the adoption of laws. the european union legal service and eu pilot, an online platform used by member states and the commission established to clarify the factual and legal background to problems arising from the application of eu law, which do not have a legal status, are of great importance to the union. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the establishment of a european data protection supervisor. the commission should also be able to provide information on the implementation of the eu pilot. the commission should also ensure that complaints and grievances addressed to parliament are treated with equal consideration as they are evidence of incomplete transposition and incorrect application of eu law. in its 29th annual report, the commission states that in recent years it has reduced the number of new infringement procedures from 2900 in 2009, i.e. 2100 in 2010, to 1775 in 2011. the report also noted a declining trend in the number of infringement cases, from 88% of cases closed in 2010, before the court of justice, to 60,4% in 2011. the commission therefore considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market.
written. - i supported the report by mrs eve lichtenberger on the 29th report on the monitoring of the application of european union law because i believe that the verification of the correct and timely application of european union legislation is one of the essential tasks of the european commission as the 'guardian of the treaties', which points out the omissions and delays by member states in the application of european legislation. it is important to highlight the example of latvia and other 'new members' such as estonia and lithuania, which can also serve as an example to the old member states in terms of the correct and timely application of european legislation. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the eu pilot programme, which is a tool for the european parliament and the council to assess the impact of the eu pilot programme on the european union's citizens.
written. - i voted for this report. i agree with the rapporteur that the commission's duty as the 'guardian of the treaty' of the european union is to monitor the application of eu law and, inter alia, to bring infringement proceedings against a member state that has failed to fulfil an obligation under the treaty. i would like to refer in particular to the rapporteur's observation that there has been a significant increase in the number of infringements related to the late transmission of legislation in the member states, as 763 additional infringements of eu law were initiated at the end of 2011 due to late transmission, representing an increase of 60% compared to the same figures last year. it's a disturbing statistic, all the more so because it's likely to be incomplete because it reflects those who are the loudest and most persistent in fighting for their rights. in this context, i support the rapporteur in recommending to the commission that it make alignment with eu law a genuine political priority in order to ensure that eu law is applied to the greatest possible extent in all member states, given that the rule of law is one of the union's fundamental values. the eu's new member states are also expected to adopt a common approach to the issue of asylum, with the aim of ensuring that the eu's citizens are able to access the eu's asylum system.
written. - i support the motion to protect the immunity of representative laura coma, as i did on january 14, 2014, when this matter was being discussed. article 8 of the protocol on the privileges and immunities of the european union expressly provides that members of the european parliament may not be subject to any form of investigation, detention or judicial proceedings for opinions expressed or votes cast in the performance of their duties. the commission has also received information from the italian authorities indicating that the italian authorities have not provided any evidence that the commission has taken action against the italian authorities for the alleged breach of the principle of proportionality. because of her views, she's facing a defamation suit. the topics listed in its agenda are the priorities of the work of the european parliament. in that context, it is perfectly legitimate to rely on article 8 of the protocol on parliamentary immunity. i believe that the member was doing her job and that she should not be prosecuted for expressing her political views and i therefore supported this motion by the european parliament to defend the immunity of ms laura coma.
mr president, mobility and freedom of movement are one of the union's fundamental values and a right that union citizens can enjoy. the commission should also be able to provide information on the number of applications for international protection lodged by the member states in accordance with article 21 of regulation (eu) no 604/2013. the aim of this simplification should certainly not be to reduce legal certainty. in this regard, it is important to harmonise the rules on administrative procedures and to allow for the multiple use of the original document or its certified translation. the commission has also concluded that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of article 107 (3) (c) of the treaty. the exchange of information and cooperation between administrative bodies can also contribute to more efficient and simpler administrative procedures.
written. - a large number of eu citizens do not live in their home member state but elsewhere within the union, and many more are temporarily resident in another member state for various reasons. all these people come into contact with the administration of the country they are visiting or in which they are residing. administrative formalities related to cross-border movement are generally complex because even if a citizen knows the language of the administration of a country, he may not be familiar with local administrative practice. the adoption of this regulation will simplify the formalities relating to the free movement of citizens across the borders of their member states, i.e. facilitate citizens' mobility within the union. i particularly welcome the rapporteur's initiative to increase the number of public documents covered by the proposal, for example documents relating to immigration status and health, and the introduction of additional multilingual forms of the european union for cross-border use, for example for educational certificates. this proposal shifts the responsibility for payment from citizens to the administration and facilitates the free movement of citizens across the european union, which is also one of the fundamental rights of eu citizens and for all these reasons deserves our support.
written. - the main purpose of this report is to increase the level of protection for workers working with hazardous chemicals. by aligning existing eu legislation on the classification, labelling and packaging of substances and mixtures (clp) with the united nations system for the identification of hazardous chemicals and the provision of information to users on related substances (ghs), we achieve better control of the chemicals market and indirect environmental protection. this proposal, which was agreed in negotiations between the eu institutions, is not only clearer from a legal perspective, but also easier to understand. this will ultimately facilitate the transposition of its provisions into national legislation. the harmonisation of definitions and terminology does not require any change in the scope or level of protection provided by the current regulation. however, it is clear that all five directives governing this area need to be reconsidered and improved as soon as possible. this would modernise the regulations and improve the level of health and safety protection when hazardous chemical mixtures and substances are present in the working environment. i support this proposal because by providing better safety conditions for workers who come into contact with chemicals, it will also save money in the health system.
in writing. - the regulation on the classification, labelling and packaging of substances and mixtures harmonises existing eu legislation with the un system (ghs). the aim is to ensure consistent legislation and an adequate level of protection of health and safety at work. to do this, the report before the vote today, which i support, suggests that we take concrete action to identify dangerous chemicals and to inform about the dangers associated with them, by using standard symbols or phrases on packaging labels and in technical safety data.
written. - the classification, labelling and packaging of substances and mixtures (clp) report aligns existing eu legislation with the globally harmonized system of classification and labelling of chemicals (ghs). it is a united nations system for identifying hazardous chemicals and informing users of safety measures by means of standard symbols, phrases and labels on packaging. the amendments to the five directives proposed by the commission are technical in nature and are included in this draft report. all five directives should be reconsidered as soon as possible in order to harmonise legislation and achieve an adequate level of health and safety protection when hazardous chemicals and mixtures are present in the working environment. the clp regulation entered into force in 2009. its aim is to protect workers, consumers and the environment by means of labelling, which indicates all potential harmful effects of the chemical. the clp regulation should facilitate global trade and harmonise the communication of information on the harmfulness of chemicals. i voted for this report because health and safety standards are a fundamental right of workers and should apply without exception to all sectors of the labour market.
written. - trade in substances and mixtures is not only a matter of the internal market, but also of the global market. in order to facilitate trade worldwide, while protecting human health and the environment, harmonised classification and labelling criteria, together with the general principles for their application, have been carefully developed over a period of 12 years within the united nations framework. the result is called the globally harmonized system of classification and labelling of chemicals. the clp regulation establishes general packaging standards to ensure the safe delivery of dangerous substances or mixtures. the correct labelling of hazardous substances and mixtures shall enable the hazard classification to be communicated to the user of the substance or mixture in order to alert the user to the hazard present and the need to avoid exposure and the resulting risks. for this reason, i support the amendment of council directives 92/58/eec, 92/85/eec, 94/33/ec, 98/24/ec and directive 2004/37/ec of the european parliament and of the council to align them with regulation (ec) no 1272/2008 on classification, labelling and packaging of substances and mixtures, but i also share the rapporteur's view that all five directives need to be recast in order to provide coherent legislation and health and safety levels when it comes to hazardous chemicals and other substances.
written. - i support the report by ms sari essayah on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive amending five council and european parliament and council directives to bring them into line with regulation (ec) no 1272/2008 on classification, labelling and packaging of substances and mixtures. the proposed directive aims to align terminology and references in the field of chemical classification and labelling with the un global harmonized system for the classification and labelling of hazardous chemicals (ghs). progressive alignment is envisaged with regulation (ec) no 1272/2008 of the european parliament and of the council on classification, labelling and packaging of substances and mixtures, which will replace the existing rules. this is expected to facilitate global trade, harmonise the exchange of information on the risks posed by chemicals and promote more effective legislation. since the harmonisation of those directives concerns the adaptation of terminology and references to the ghs, there will be no impact on the level of protection provided for by those directives and no new costs or additional investment for companies in occupational safety and health, which is essential to maintain the competitiveness of the economy and jobs. in croatia, these directives have been implemented in the occupational safety and health act and i support the report and the efforts to align the terminology for the classification, labelling and packaging of substances and mixtures with un standards.
mr president, the protection of intellectual property, in particular copyright and related rights, in a time of progressive technological development, the reproduction and distribution of content presents a major challenge for the legislator. it's our responsibility to protect both rights holders and collective management societies in this process, but at the same time to provide the consumer user with easy access to copyrighted content. in this respect, i consider it extremely important that the position of collective management organisations in the member states be demobilised, as this is the only way to achieve the digital single market trend. respect for the principles of free establishment and freedom to provide services, as well as the fact that online services are not limited by national borders, opens up new possibilities for rightholders. the development of this field of protection, as well as the wider involvement of operators, will certainly result in the development of creative industries and stimulate growth and employment in the member states.
mr president, i support the report by mrs gallo on the proposal for a directive on the collective management of copyright and related rights and the licensing of multi-country rights for the online use of musical works in the internal market, with the aim of pan-european licensing of musical works and reducing the transaction costs of users and providing equal market access for all. this directive is drawn up for the first time in such a way as to address the problem of the joint management of copyright and related rights, the issue of licences valid in more than one country and to include the need to apply the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality in transposition into national law. i think it will also benefit our special associations that deal with copyright protection and remuneration for phonogram rights in croatia and i expect that in this respect in the new digital environment both users and licensors and users will be satisfied.
mr. president, artists often feel that their work is not valued enough, and in today's world where money plays a crucial role in every individual's life, that feeling is quite measurable. both croatian artists, catering professionals and other users who are the mass users of the music industry in croatia, but also the croatian public, have recently been debating the justification and distribution of revenues generated by copyright management organizations. by harmonising this area at eu level, by providing a framework for the transparent and fair functioning of such organisations, i believe we will have more satisfied users, but also performers who are holders of these user rights. the creative industries are a significant contributor to gdp and employment, and we need to approach them carefully, but first and foremost fairly, to those who are most vulnerable. i consider it essential to have a transparent process for the collection and distribution of funds and to inform all actors in a timely manner of their rights and obligations. this document is a major step forward in the area of collective rights and i hope that its implementation will result in the satisfaction and well-being of all stakeholders.
written. - the distribution of copyrighted content, including books, audiovisual productions and recorded music, requires the issuing of licences by the various holders of copyright and related rights, such as authors, performers, producers and publishers. the eu should take care to take into account the cultural diversity and contribute to the flowering of the cultures of the member states in its action, while at the same time highlighting the common cultural heritage while respecting their national and regional diversity. collective management organisations have an important social and cultural role in promoting the diversity of cultural expression by allowing market access for authors of smaller and less popular repertoires. the purpose of the directive is to create a model for multi-territorial licensing of musicians' rights on the internet. the transparency and governance of services should guarantee prompt and fair remuneration for artists. the commission should be able to assess the impact of the directive on the market for the provision of electronic communications services. the commission has also examined the application of the state aid rules to the aid scheme for the construction of the airport in the united kingdom. i welcome a fairly balanced agreement that respects the collective enjoyment of rights and promotes the requirements of transparency and copyright management, and thus a guarantee of fair remuneration for artists.
written. - the widespread use of personal computers and the high availability of broadband internet connections have enabled citizens to access music works with unprecedented speed and ease over the past decade. the role and the aim of the legislative process must be to keep pace with these technological advances. in this respect, i agree with the report that collective management organisations are the best way to ensure that the author is adequately compensated. collective management organisations must be able to fulfil their task of pooling management costs for the benefit of their members and in the interest of legal certainty for beneficiaries, while defending and promoting cultural diversity. improving the functioning of collective management organisations in relation to their members, users and other such organisations benefits both users of copyright works and authors and artists. in particular, i welcome the balanced representation of categories of rightholders in the decision-making process, the inclusion of commercial actors and service providers in the legal framework, transparency and governance rules for both collective management organisations and for equivalent commercial services, and the creation of a model for multi-territorial licensing of online rights in musical works. i think it's important to hear the views of all the stakeholders on these issues. such dialogue is the only way to find a balanced solution that satisfies all.
mr president, the economic crisis that has shaken the european union for more than a few years has clearly shown us how deep and far-reaching can be the consequences of market manipulation and insider trading. this report is a good attempt to put an end to such practices and to limit them to the maximum possible with appropriate criminal sanctions. i am pleased that we are showing our determination to take market manipulation seriously and i hope that our legislative practice will continue in the next mandate of the european parliament with a clear definition of the legislative framework that will contribute to minimising said manipulation. i am convinced that this is the only way to achieve the political dream we share, namely a fully harmonised and functioning european union common market. in other words, a market in which there will be no difference in legal certainty and economic credibility regardless of the member state in which we are located and carry out business or market activities.
written. - this report ensures that serious market abuse is no longer sanctioned by administrative penalties, which were found to be insufficient under the old 2003 directive in the same area. the new directive proposes to make such conduct a criminal offence, punishable by at least four years' imprisonment for insider dealing and market manipulation, or by at least two years' imprisonment for unlawful disclosure. the commission has also found that the use of the term 'market manipulation' in the context of the investigation of the alleged misuse of the euro by the banks and brokers is not in line with the principles of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. i support this report because its purpose is to restore citizens' confidence in european financial markets and to improve investor protection. a crime is a crime, whether it was committed with a gun or a keyboard. in both cases, there is a victim to protect and a perpetrator to punish.
written. - i welcome the adoption of the report on the proposal for a directive on criminal sanctions for insider dealing and market manipulation. the criminal penalties of imprisonment proposed by this directive are a more appropriate way of sanctioning illicit and destructive behaviour of individuals and undertakings in the financial market, as opposed to administrative penalties in the past. although this is a sophisticated and often undetected form of fraud, we must be aware of the fact that the motive behind such behavior is criminal in nature. i consider that we must be guided by the principle that an individual may not exploit market imperfections to the detriment of other players, and therefore i call on the commission to monitor the implementation of the directive in national legislation after the entry into force of this directive and to review the effectiveness of existing legislation in the member states. the fact that in some member states no offenders have been detected and sanctioned in the last 2 years clearly speaks to the effectiveness of national governments in implementing and the success of existing legislation. investor confidence in financial markets and investor protection are particularly important in new member states such as croatia and i therefore welcome the new directive and its decisive measures as they aim to remove negative market manipulators.
written. - i supported the report by mrs mccarthy on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on criminal sanctions for insider dealing and market manipulation. in particular, the previous 2003 market abuse directive (mad 2003/6/ec) has not proved to be sufficient in combating insider dealing and market manipulation. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this directive by laying down detailed rules on the application of this directive to the activities of undertakings in the securities field. the commission considers that the aid is necessary to ensure that the beneficiaries of the aid are able to benefit from the aid. the lack of a common system of criminal sanctions across the union allows those responsible for market abuse to exploit the systems in some member states. this leads to a lack of confidence of citizens in the rule of law and the legitimacy of institutions. an example is the libor scandal, when it was revealed that banks linked to the london interbank offered rate (libor) were profiting from artificially inflated or reduced interest rates, with an estimated $17.1 billion in losses.
written. - this report is the result of the repeal of the previous regulation regulating the obligation of member states to report to the european commission on investments in energy infrastructure. the annulment was decided by the court of justice of the european union, following a request by the european parliament, which contested the legal basis on which the regulation was adopted. accordingly, a new regulation is proposed based on the correct legal basis, which is no different in substance and scope from the repealed regulation. it requires all member states to report every two years on investments in the production, storage and transport of oil, natural gas and electricity. the aim of the proposal is to provide the commission with accurate and timely information on the state of the energy sector in order to better regulate the common energy market and policy. i support this regulation because it will enable us to identify future energy demand and supply and reduce barriers to investment.
written. - the establishment of a common framework for the collection of data on energy projects under planning or construction will create a comprehensive energy picture of the european union. this will allow for a better development of the european energy policy. i support this report because its adoption will allow regular access to up-to-date data and information, which should enable the commission to make the necessary comparisons and assessments or to propose appropriate measures on the basis of the relevant figures and analyses, in particular with regard to the future balance between energy supply and demand on the european market. member states or their competent authorities and the commission shall ensure the confidentiality of the data collected from the company. the energy picture in the european union has changed considerably in recent years, with the eu's increasing dependence on energy from third countries becoming more visible. there is a need for better coordination between member states and eu bodies, especially when it comes to energy contracts with third countries, and this report provides for the information on such energy projects to be communicated to the commission. the report recognises smaller wind and solar power plants, further adding to the importance of renewable energy sources, which are expected to become an important part of future energy production in the european union.
in writing. - the work on this draft report on a highly relevant subject has seen the submission of many amendments aimed at simplifying the procedures for investment projects in energy infrastructure. in addition, work has been done to extend the scope of the legislation to include coal as an important element in the energy mix. it has a significant impact on the union's energy policy.
written. - the creation of a comprehensive picture of the development of investment in energy infrastructure in the union is a prerequisite for the development of european energy policy. the commission should be able to assess the impact of the measures on the energy market and to take appropriate measures to ensure that the union's energy market is not affected by the effects of the measures. in order to ensure that the commission has a consistent overview of the future evolution of the union's energy system as a whole, a harmonised framework for reporting on investment projects is needed, based on up-to-date information to be provided by member states. in order to facilitate the processing of data and to facilitate and secure the communication of data, the commission should take all appropriate measures relating to the use of integrated it tools and procedures to guarantee the confidentiality of the data or information communicated to the commission. i support this report which calls on the commission and the energy market observatory to provide for a regular, cross-sectoral analysis of the structural evolution and outlook of the union's energy system and, where appropriate, a more precise analysis of certain aspects of that energy system. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the definition of the concept of 'originating products' and the definition of the concept of 'originating products' and the definition of the concept of 'originating products' in accordance with article 4 of regulation (eu) no 1308/2013.
written. - i supported this report because i believe that a regulation which will provide a harmonised framework for reporting on investment projects planned or under construction in the member states relating to the production, storage and transport of oil, natural gas, electricity, coal, biofuels and carbon dioxide is a good example of how to reduce the administrative burden and costs of the member states. in addition, this regulation will contribute to strengthening energy security by identifying potential infrastructure shortcomings and reducing the risk of insufficient or inappropriate investment in energy infrastructure. it should be underlined that this regulation also reduces the capacity threshold of installations using renewable energy sources, so that the data collected on the state of the eu energy system will be even more precise and complete as it will also include installations of lower capacity, such as croatian wind farms. i am pleased that investment projects of croatian wind power (we) such as the zelengrad-obrovac pv, which is under construction, and the ogorje and glunča pv, which are planned, will now also be part of the eu energy system.
written. - investment projects in the field of energy infrastructure are of particular importance to the european union. in the context of the new energy policy, which aims at secure supply, mitigating climate change and ensuring competitiveness, investment in energy infrastructure is key and private economic operators are playing an increasing role in this investment. the republic of croatia, as a member of the european union, has an important role in the field of energy infrastructure and energy infrastructure projects and is included in the list of 250 priority projects of common european interest. projects in croatia include the construction of a 45-kilometre high-voltage transmission line linking lika and banja luka and a 215-kilometre konjsko brinje transmission line. the list of projects also includes the construction of an lng terminal in krk and the construction of new ones, as well as the extension and upgrading of existing pipelines with a total length of 308 kilometres. the new tools for monitoring investment projects should provide smes with better visibility, reduce investment uncertainty and improve the implementation of investment projects, as well as data confidentiality and investment security, which is why i want to support this report.
written. - i supported the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the reporting by the commission on investment projects in the field of energy infrastructure in the european union. reliable data on energy investment is the basis for planning and policy-making in this area and a clear overview of current and planned investments in the energy sector is needed. the proposed regulation requires member states to provide the european commission with information every two years on investments in planned energy projects as well as carbon capture and storage projects. according to un figures for 2011, the energy industry was responsible for 30.91% of the eu's greenhouse gas emissions, which speaks volumes about the importance of the energy sector in the fight against climate change. it was at the last plenary session of parliament that i drew attention to the importance of reliable and accurate data in the energy sector, during the debate on carbon capture and storage (ccs) technology. in particular, in its report on the future of ccs technologies, which are considered a key element in reducing greenhouse gas concentrations, the european commission took data from zero. the commission notes that the ccs project was not part of the restructuring plan, but was part of the restructuring plan. in line with the above, i consider it crucial in the development of public policies to have reliable and accurate data on investments in the energy sector.
written. - mr president, the aim of the regulation before us is to provide the european commission with accurate and timely access to figures, statistical analyses, expert reviews and other qualitative and quantitative information relating to the state of the energy sector in individual member states, so that the commission can carry out its tasks in planning the overall energy policy of the european union in a sound and structured manner. it is logical that, particularly aware of the importance of a coordinated approach to this issue, i have supported the proposal for a regulation prepared for us by mrs valean. as we all know, the energy situation has changed considerably in recent years and investment in energy infrastructure has become a key issue for the security of the european union's energy supply. in this context, the issue of the community's energy supply necessarily affects the functioning of our internal market, but is also of crucial importance for the gradual transition to a sustainable energy system that we have embarked upon as a community. in order to give the european commission a consistent overview of future developments in the eu's energy system as a whole and to plan our public policies accordingly, i believe that the harmonised framework for reporting on energy projects proposed by ms valean is not only necessary but also indispensable. so i congratulate her on her job.
written. - the selection of a member of the court of auditors, because of the great complexity and importance of this duty, has always been a delicate business. the court of auditors shall be composed of a president, a vice-president and a vice-president, who shall be appointed by the union. the report on the proposed appointment of klaus heinrich lehne as a member of the court of auditors is acceptable because, although a lawyer by profession, mr lehne has answered satisfactorily questions on his future activities in the event of his election as a member of the court of auditors and his appointment is in line with many german audit bodies which are composed of lawyers.
written. - i voted to appoint my colleague, klaus-heiner lehne, as a member of the court of auditors. his past legal career, as well as his mandates as a member of the bundestag and the european parliament and as chairman of the committee on legal affairs, guarantee that mr lehne will perform his duties as a member of the court of auditors with quality.
written. - one of the key roles of any parliament is to maintain a transparent and independent political decision-making system. our role as members of the european parliament is undeniably bound up with the same principle at the level of the european institutions. for this reason, i support this report and its central idea a more important role for the european parliament in decisions concerning the appointment of members to the european court of auditors. this might avoid the scenario we witnessed last year, where the impression was created that the european parliament was asked for an opinion only to fill in an existing form and where the members of the court were appointed despite the negative opinion of the parliament. the european parliament's greater role in such a procedure would also allow for greater transparency and accountability for the members of the council. the committee on budgetary control has done a good job with this report and i sincerely hope that the recommendations contained in the report will be useful for the future work of the court of auditors.
written. - i support this report on the future role of the court of auditors which will contribute to improving not only the relationship between the court of auditors and the european parliament but also to improving the court's business. it sets out the future and the future role of the court of auditors, the definition of the traditional das guarantee statement model, new dimensions and challenges in the work of the court, cooperation with national audit institutions, the new environment for the court's work and the restructuring of the court's structure. in addition, the procedure for appointing the members of the court of auditors is further defined, with an emphasis on consulting the european parliament. the court of auditors is one of the key institutions for protecting the financial interests of the european union, encouraging the establishment of sound financial management systems and building efficient public sectors. in the republic of croatia, the main partner institution of the court of auditors is the state audit office, which aims to improve the quality and efficiency of the public sector work. the court of auditors is also a partner of the national audit office and the eu programme implementation system audit agency, which audits the system established for the management of eu funds. external audit institutions are essential for building and maintaining a lawful, purposeful and efficient public sector at the level of each member state and the european union as a whole. that is why i support this report which improves cooperation between the court of auditors and the european parliament.
written. - the european court of auditors is the eu institution responsible for auditing the union's finances. the court of auditors aims to organise and develop auditing in the public sector and in public administration in an effective manner. complete, accurate and easily accessible information on budget implementation and policies in democratic societies is essential for effective supervision and decision-making. the european union and its member states need an independent external auditor who can act as a guardian of the financial interests of its citizens. the report, which was intended to stimulate debate on the future role of the court of auditors and its way of functioning, rightly highlights the question of how to integrate the court of auditors more fully into the work programmes of the other institutions of the union. the court warns of risks, provides assurances and guidance to union policymakers on how to improve the management of public finances and ensures that citizens know how their money is spent. in this way, the court contributes to strengthening the democratic legitimacy and sustainability of the european union. in view of the growing importance of eu funds, the court of auditors is assuming an increasingly important role in the spending of european union funds and it is important to determine whether its existence and management are appropriate to that purpose. the court of auditors should be integrated as much as possible into the union's main strategies and adapt its functioning in order to achieve maximum synergies.
written. - i supported the report on the future role of the court of auditors, which expresses the unacceptability of the council's decisions to appoint members of the court whose candidacies had previously been rejected by parliament. despite the absence of such a legal obligation under the tfeu, the council has regularly followed the recommendations of the parliamentary committee on the admissibility of candidates for the court of justice. appointments contrary to parliament's recommendations may undermine the court's credibility and jeopardise good cooperation with parliament, which is essential for an effective eu budgetary control system. the equal status of the council and the parliament in the appointment of the members of the court ensures its legitimacy and independence. the annual obligation to lodge a statement of assurance (das), which the court of auditors has been submitting to parliament and the council since 1994, makes a significant contribution to the control of the legality and regularity of the use of the financial resources at all levels of union expenditure. in addition to continuing to examine the legality and regularity of the budget, i believe that the 800 staff of the court of auditors should in future devote more attention to analysing the economy, efficiency and effectiveness of the use of public funds entrusted to the commission and to other budgetary beneficiaries, since as much as 80% of budgetary expenditure is managed by the national authorities. the sender report provides useful guidance on how the court of auditors can continue to fulfil its priority function of protecting the interests of european taxpayers by ensuring maximum value for their money.
written. - this report emphasises that legislation proposed and adopted at european level should be simple, effective, efficient and easily understandable and accessible in all the official languages of the member states. the economic crisis has put pressure on the resources of national administrations and a commitment to clear and easily transferable legislation would help to alleviate some of that burden. social aspects also need to be considered. quality legislation does not mean scope, but efficiency of the system, taking into account workers' rights, freedom of movement and non-discrimination. that's why i supported the amendments to the report that my law club submitted.
written. - i support this report. since the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, the legislative opportunities for both the member states and the european union, namely the european parliament, have changed considerably. i would like to stress in particular the strengthening of the role of national parliaments in the framework of european legislation. in 2010, the european parliament received 41 reasoned opinions claiming that the draft legislative act did not comply with the principle of subsidiarity. in 2011, that number stood at 77, and this certainly shows a shift in the strengthening of the role of national parliaments. the more intensive dialogue between national parliaments and the european parliament is certainly welcome and therefore the number could be higher. the committee on constitutional affairs often has on its agenda reports which are purely procedural in nature, i.e. which align the lisbon treaty with the rules of procedure, and if we draw a parallel with the national level, we can understand why dialogue is necessary and how complex the implementation of european legislation is.
written. - i supported the report on regulatory adequacy, subsidiarity and proportionality in the european union because it contributes to achieving smart and sustainable growth that benefits citizens, companies and workers, which is a shared responsibility of the european commission, the member states of the european union and the other institutions. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, including the countries of the former soviet union, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe. the impact of the sheer volume of acts and their complexity is felt by citizens and businesses alike, and they are calling on the institutions to reduce the number and simplicity of laws. the european commission's action programme for reducing administrative burdens has succeeded in simplifying the laws and reducing their volume by 25%. the commission is continuing to eliminate unnecessary regulatory burden in cooperation with other eu institutions and member states through the regulatory fitness and performance programme (refit). refit has a role to identify administrative burdens, inconsistencies, and ineffective measures and to monitor the implementation of european union acts into national legislation. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the refit programme, in particular through the use of the european commission's annual work programme for the period 2014-2020 and the annual work programme for the period 2014-2020.
written. - i did not support this report by mr karima which deals with the issues of subsidiarity and proportionality primarily because, as a social democrat, i believe that it was necessary to consider further the social aspects and the social partnership. better law implies the efficiency of the system taking into account social aspects, non-discrimination, workers' rights and freedom of movement. i have particularly stressed the importance of the active participation of member states in the eu pilot, which in any case makes it possible to reduce the number of infringement procedures against union law. it is also of paramount importance that parliament has access to the preliminary infringement procedure as well as to the infringement procedure itself, and that the commission follows its obligations under the revised framework agreement governing relations with parliament, which obliges the commission to make available to parliament information relating to the aforementioned procedures.
written. - the principle of subsidiarity is a general principle of the european union which regulates the union's competences. the concept of subsidiarity was introduced by the european parliament exactly 30 years ago, in february 1984, when it adopted the draft treaty on european union. today, 30 years later, this report proposes further steps in the development of legislation, in the context of the expansion of the democratic legitimacy of the european union and the preservation of the european union's social acquis. further steps to regulate this issue should be taken to facilitate the whole procedure on which subsidiarity is based it often happens that due to short deadlines or lack of funds national parliaments cannot properly implement this principle and in the future this procedure should be improved and made more efficient. i also agree that more attention should be paid to the system of timely involvement of national parliaments in a balanced way that does not represent an inefficient proportion of additional bureaucracy. any attempt to regulate the principle of subsidiarity more effectively for the mutual benefit of the european institutions and national parliaments is worth supporting.
mr. president, i feel it is my civic and moral duty to explain my vote on this report. with due respect to all those who are working to eliminate all forms of discrimination, whether it be sexual, racial, religious or any other inequalities of our citizens, i must point out that mrs lunacek's report is not just about that. it goes much further and calls for privileges for one group of people, it calls for special protection and additional rights. discrimination, even if it is positive, is not good and acceptable. i am absolutely and unreservedly for the equality of all citizens before the law and i sincerely hope that through mutual respect and esteem we will one day reach a more tolerant and we will no longer hear about homophobia which today is repeated as a mantra and calls us all with traditional values.
mr. president, it is our duty to fight against all forms of discrimination, violence and harassment against any minority group. it is for this reason that, as i support the elimination of discrimination on grounds of sex, race, ethnic or national origin, disability or health, property and social status, i strongly support the elimination of all forms of discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation and gender identity and that is why i have supported this report. last year in croatia, unfortunately, a referendum was held on the definition of marriage, which was strongly influenced by the catholic church. but despite this, the croatian parliament is now considering a draft proposal for a law on civil partnerships that will treat same-sex partners in the same way as married ones in matters of pension insurance, the tax system and inheritance of property. yet, it does not provide for equality in adoption and in community designation. i would like to emphasise once again that i supported this report because i believe that the development of civil society is a prerequisite for the development of a democratic society based on the values of tolerance, non-violence, equality and equal opportunities.
mr. president, i supported the first amendment and voted against the second amendment to this resolution by my colleague lunacek, for a very clear reason. on the one hand, i do believe that the dignity of every human person must be respected, that homophobia has no place in europe, that it must not be tolerated, but the debate we had yesterday, and even the intervention by my colleague jakovina, shows that unfortunately this resolution and the debate in the european parliament were abused to change the constitution of the republic of croatia, that is, the will of two thirds of the citizens of the republic of croatia who took part in that referendum and said that marriage is a life-long union between a man and a woman. the european parliament cannot be used to change the constitution of a member state or, as was said yesterday, to define precisely such a constitutional definition and the will of croatian citizens as homophobic. this is simply unacceptable and that is precisely why i voted against this second part, this second amendment, because i believe, once again, that the role of the european parliament is to emphasise that no one should be discriminated against, not to promote gender ideology.
written. - i support this report because i believe it is time for the european parliament to support efforts to protect minorities in our society, minorities whose fundamental rights can in theory be derived from previous eu directives and treaties, but who in practice continue to be subjected to discrimination, insults and attacks on a daily basis because of something they have no control over: their sexual orientation. the european commission replied that such measures had already been taken to ensure equality on the basis of sexual orientation and gender identity, but that these measures were below standard compared to the comprehensive approach it uses to protect other groups of citizens. the european union's fundamental values since its inception have been respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law, human rights and the rights of persons belonging to minorities. at a time when almost 50% of the members of a group feel discriminated against, singled out and under constant threat of attack, action by the european institutions is necessary. the european institutions must act so that solidarity in the eu, with both minority groups and all citizens, does not become a forgotten prerequisite for a just society.
written. - regarding the report on the european union plan against homophobia and discrimination on the grounds of sexual orientation and gender identity, i consider that the european union protects the fundamental rights and freedoms of all its citizens and i voted in accordance with this position. in its response to the report's proposal, the commission also recalled that provisions explicitly prohibiting discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation are already an integral part of european law. human rights are universal and indivisible. therefore, attempts to categorize fundamental rights make it difficult to ensure equal protection of citizens. although the report refers to the principle of subsidiarity, the exclusive competence of the member states in the area of family law has not been consistently respected. certain provisions appear to be intended to put political pressure on member states to influence indirectly possible changes to national rules governing marriage and parenthood. promoting an ideological agenda that divides citizens can hardly be the right way to achieve social cohesion within the union.
in writing. - one of my tasks as a member of the european parliament is to assess whether proposed bills are acceptable at national level or are being pushed through in brussels. the lunaček report is not only contradictory and highly controversial, but also contains wording that i personally find unacceptable. i believe that the proposals contained in the report, for example in relation to education, health programmes, should first be seriously discussed at national level. that is why i could not support this resolution in the vote. as regards discrimination, the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, which entered into force in december 2009, already protects the fundamental civil, political, economic and social rights of all european citizens, as well as of any person living in the eu. article 21 of section 3 (equality) of that document explicitly provides for the prohibition of discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation. thank you.
written. - mr president, from my public activities in the republic of croatia and in the european parliament, it is clear why i supported the report of our colleague ulrike lunaček. her report is a clear signpost to the european union that it must continue to fight decisively against all forms of discrimination and against discrimination against our citizens and citizens who do not belong to the heterosexual majority. i want to make a promise from this place to all those who have elected me to this high office that i will continue, in every place and with all my strength, to fight so that every form of inequality related to sexual orientation is eradicated or, in those places where this is still not possible for some reason, at least reduced to the lowest possible level. in conclusion, i would like to make it clear that i also supported this report because, contrary to some members from my country, but also from some other member states, i do not believe that it infringes in any way the principle of subsidiarity, which we are obliged to respect. this report is a non-binding proposal from the european parliament, which as european officials shows our commitment to equality, calling on the member states to respect it, but respecting to the end their right to do so or not to do so. i sincerely hope they will respect it.
mr president, in developing a single market in which all participants have equal rights and obligations, it is important to develop and improve the instruments of competition. in this process, it is of the utmost importance to provide consumers with protection and to make information about their rights available to them, i.e. to strengthen protection instruments such as consumer associations. it is particularly important to monitor technological developments and innovations in the field of advertising in order to take appropriate measures in time to combat misleading advertising. this is particularly true for those activities where the share of online sales has traditionally been high and consumers are therefore more exposed to the risk of fraud. in order to ensure that the rules on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data are applied in a uniform manner, it is necessary to provide for the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data by the competent authorities of the member states. here, that's what i was actually going to say.
mr president, the aim of this directive is to further strengthen the rights of consumers in all member states and it is for this very reason that i was very happy to support it. it is clear to all of us that the european union's single market must be able to protect all those involved in the market processes if it is to be fully functional and fully harmonised, if it is to be in line with legislative standards and if it is to be credible in business practices. to put it simply, we must be able to protect those who provide a service and those who use it equally. until now, that balance has been, and still is, disturbed. in reality, consumers are in reality much less protected than producers and their sensitivity has increased further in recent years due to the expansion of the european market. this directive represents a step forward in consumer protection and is an attempt to make the single european market a source of products of proven safety and quality for all consumers. i hope that in the years ahead we will continue to develop our legislation in this direction.
mr president, i voted today in favour of the report by mr rochefort on the implementation of the unfair commercial practices directive, a european union legal instrument that has been in place since 2005 and which, it must be admitted, has not been transposed in time into the national legislation of the member states by the deadline set in the directive, which is 2007. what is its essence? the report and the directive are intended to provide additional protection for consumers, particularly in relation to cross-border transactions, and in particular to false but attractive advertisements that can be found on the internet. we must make an extra effort to find legal mechanisms that will not allow deception, and that consumers, and by the way consumer protection is one of the important policies of the european union, remain unprotected in our internal market. in this respect, we must also make a great effort at national level.
mr. president, the unfair commercial practices directive was passed in 2005 to boost consumer confidence and make it easier for businesses, especially small and medium-sized businesses, to do business outside the country. this directive encourages all member states to prevent unfair behaviour such as giving false information about the composition, origin, durability and quality of products, as well as the use of aggressive methods of promotion which influence consumer choice. today i have supported the report because it insists on the correct and full implementation of this directive in all member states. the strict and high-quality implementation of this directive will contribute to the confidence building that is essential for economic growth and development.
written. - personal consumption accounts for as much as 56% of european gdp and consumer confidence in the market is therefore crucial to achieving and sustaining economic growth. a strong and effective european consumer protection policy can therefore increase consumer confidence and indirectly create the new jobs we so badly need at this time. the unfair commercial practices directive is the eu's main tool in the fight against false advertising and consumer fraud. however, the fact is that it is not implemented equally in all member states. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the conditions for the participation of third countries in the union's programmes in the field of scientific and technical research and technological development, in particular in the field of nuclear safety. furthermore, it is necessary to better link and facilitate the cooperation of national authorities in the area of consumer protection. i therefore welcome the establishment of the register of good practices announced by the commission by the end of 2014. in addition, the commission also started to develop a consolidated database on consumer legislation. both of these things will be strengthened by national regulators and legislators. i support this report and call on the european commission to monitor the uniform implementation of the directive in all parts of the eu.
written. - for the purposes of this report, the commission has carried out an analysis of the state of the judiciary in the eu. the comparison and assessment of the effectiveness of the judicial systems of the member states has been carried out with a view to better defining the policy of the judiciary. as its scope focuses on the parameters of justice systems that contribute to improving the business and investment climate in the eu, the analysis relates exclusively to civil, commercial and administrative law. the evaluation of the functioning of the judicial system should be carried out in its entirety in such a way that it is not detached from the social, historical and economic situation of the member states or from the constitutional tradition from which that judicial system originates. this is also a very sensitive area in which national prerogatives must be respected. like my colleague from the s&d club, i believe that the report contains provisions which are adapted to the member states. the proposed amendments, which aim to rebalance the text and put the emphasis on both the member states and the european parliament, were unfortunately not accepted. however, this does not mean that this report is not a valuable tool for identifying difficulties encountered by member states, such as the length of judicial proceedings, transparency and independence of the judiciary.
in writing. - mr zwiefka's report focuses on civil, commercial and administrative law, which are important areas for the legal system and whose functioning is a source of legal certainty, which is also essential for a speedy economic recovery. improving the quality, independence and efficiency of judicial systems and reducing judicial time will help to restore their credibility, as shortcomings in the functioning of the judicial system undermine the trust of citizens and businesses in judicial institutions and do not help to channel the investments and resources needed to overcome the crisis and to revive our economy.
written. - the purpose of the justice scoreboard is to contribute to the development of national justice systems and to strengthen the quality, efficiency and independence of the judiciary. the focus of this report is exclusively on civil, commercial and administrative law, where the judicial system is of particular importance for economic recovery. the report calls on the commission to move forward with the exercises in accordance with international treaties and in cooperation with the member states. the equality between member states and the different structural specificities and traditions between member states should thus be taken into account. the parties agree to cooperate in the fight against corruption and to promote the development of effective judicial systems, including the rule of law, and to promote the rule of law in the country. an efficient and independent judicial system also contributes to the development of trust and stability. predictable, timely decisions are important components of an attractive business environment. the deficiencies in the functioning of the judiciary undermine the confidence of citizens and businesses in judicial institutions, especially in these times of economic, social and financial crisis. the commission should also be able to provide information on the legal and administrative situation of the member states, in particular on the legal and administrative situation of the member states, and on the legal and administrative situation of the member states.
written. - i supported this report because i believe that an independent judiciary contributes to the economic development of each member state, as well as to improving competitiveness and increasing foreign investment. the commission has also concluded that the legal framework for the enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters is not yet in place. the exchange of best practices for ensuring an efficient and independent judiciary is of particular importance, as is the comparative analysis of justice systems that are essential for building cross-border mutual trust.
written. - i support this report because i believe that the new commission instrument can serve as a good incentive that some member states need to achieve higher standards in the judiciary. the instrument is also compatible with the other two programmes previously supported by the european parliament, namely the rights and citizenship programme and the 2014-2020 justice programme. it is of particular importance that citizens of the union have equal access to good administration of justice wherever they live or travel within the union, which will be possible, inter alia, by strengthening judicial cooperation between member states. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and to monitor the implementation of the new rules and regulations, including the implementation of the new rules and regulations. progress by lower ranking member states will bring the eu as a whole to a higher level of judicial development, and thus strengthen the foundations of the union.
mr president, i have already stressed on several occasions in this parliament the importance of the potential for new jobs that lies in renewable energy sources and smart energy systems. it seems to me that it is not only necessary, but crucial, to encourage all regions and local authorities to consider the benefits of investing in smart energy systems as a potential source of new jobs. but not forgetting that this is a huge opportunity for a construction industry that is currently on its knees, and which is still one of the main areas for job creation. i would like to take this opportunity to express my support for the report before us. not only because it highlights the positive environmental effects of developing smart energy systems, but especially because it recognises that they have the potential to provide employment for many of our citizens. this economic potential is particularly important in the context of the empowerment of local and regional economies.
written. - under the 2014-2020 european and structural investment funds regulations, member states are obliged to channel the resources of these funds towards investing in a smart, sustainable and inclusive europe. the cohesion fund also makes investments in this area possible. so far, a minimal number of regions have taken advantage of this facility. gussing in austria, for example, has managed to transform itself from a poor and peripheral region into a model of self-sufficiency by producing energy for its needs from renewable sources. examples include islands such as madeira in portugal or samsø in denmark. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance in the context of the union's macro-financial assistance. in addition to encouraging development in the region through employment, investment and so on, the environment is also protected. that is why i support this report.
mr president, as the report says, small farms are under demographic, market and technological pressure today. however, they play an important social, environmental and cultural role, and their sustainability is in the interest of all of us. i come from a country where there are an exceptionally large number of small farms. the negative trends are particularly striking in my home region of slavonia, where the number of family farms is falling by 10% a year. at the same time, these are the areas of croatia most affected by depopulation. the common agricultural policy must be sensitive to the needs of small farmers, as 72% of farms in the european union are less than 2 ha. i therefore welcome this proposal which calls for much needed measures to preserve the croatian and european countryside such as incentives for associations of small farmers and packages of favourable credit for farmers.
mr president, the small farms in my country, but also in europe, are facing various problems which require a broader approach, and i have therefore voted in favour of this report, which i consider to be only a small step towards restoring dignity to those who work in them, live off them and produce genuine domestic products. this report brings to light and reminds us once again of the real and serious problems facing small farmers, such as market price instability, difficult access to funding from eu programmes, weak negotiating position, etc. i consider it essential to take account of the specific needs of small economies in order to strengthen their competitiveness, sustainability and profitability. at the same time, it is important to start a stronger fight against depopulation in rural areas, and one way to do this is to invest in infrastructure, education and healthcare, using eu funds, but also assistance from member states in the form of loans, credit guarantees and financial leasing. i supported this report because it advocates a thousand-year-old national tradition and family heritage, but i take this opportunity to point out the different positions in the member states, which is also worth bearing in mind, as i emphasised in the rapporteur.
mr president, i supported mr siekierski's report on the future of small farms because they are an important element of the european agricultural model and rural development. their role is essential to enhance the vitality of rural areas, to provide employment for young people by increasing the range of agricultural and food products and to preserve cultural and traditional values. i welcome the introduction of support schemes for small farmers under the first pillar of the common agricultural policy, but these measures are still insufficient to improve the situation of small farms in the european union because the amounts of direct payments are small and do not offer enough opportunities for development. i therefore see the solution to the problem of small farms in conjunction with other policies, such as cohesion policy, which could finance the necessary infrastructure, and the european social fund, which would provide measures for social integration and education. we have favorable natural conditions in croatia and we are traditionally an agricultural country, let's take advantage of the incentives we now have from the european union.
mr. president, i supported this report on small farms. according to the croatian state statistical office, in 2010 there were 141 000 registered small farms, with almost 330 000 people somehow connected to them or running them. it is true that year by year this figure is decreasing, but it is still large enough and speaks of the importance of these small family farms for croatia. i agree with the rapporteur that such small farms have been treated unequally under the existing eu cap and therefore there is a need to simplify processes and remove administrative barriers for small farmers, especially when applying for eu funds. i think that through these funds, both the cohesion fund and the european social fund, more work needs to be done in the area of social integration, education and training.
mr president, small family farms are the basis of agriculture in the republic of croatia, but also in many other member states, especially from the fifth wave of enlargement. i supported this report, which calls on the member states and the european commission to take measures to promote the sustainability of small farms and rural areas under the new cap. the agriculture and rural development fund can finance communal social and economic infrastructure, healthcare, childcare, the development of the internet, the development of small and medium-sized enterprises in rural areas, all that is necessary for the development of rural areas and the prevention of depopulation and displacement trends. the new cohesion and agriculture regulations allow for the combination of funds and lifelong learning, vocational training and knowledge transfer in rural areas can be financed from the european social fund and combined with infrastructure investments from the agriculture and rural development fund.
written. - i thank the rapporteur for the initiative to discuss the future of small farms in the european union. although farms do not contribute to national gdp directly as much as large producers, it is necessary to raise awareness of the fact that the existence of such organisations represents a social component of the survival of rural areas. de-agrification and depopulation of rural areas are trends that we must stop. if this cannot be achieved by actively implementing the new cap, i welcome the initiative to better understand the needs of small family farms in the post-2020 period. i think that there is a need to understand small farmers better because they are not able to have the information available to their larger competitors nor do they have the experience needed to carry out certain administrative procedures required by the european union. finally, i would like to stress the importance of this report for croatia, as a country where small farms are the traditional form of agricultural production and where as many as 90% of farms have less than 5 hectares of agricultural area. the survival of small farms, both croatian and european, does not depend so much on the consolidation of land as on agricultural policy measures adapted to small farmers and therefore i believe that this initiative is another step forward towards modifying the common agricultural policy in favour of small farmers.
mr president, e-commerce has indeed grown, almost 20% a year in 2012. by the way, the digital economy is the fastest growing branch of the economy. however, 57% of traders consider that the cross-border delivery of goods purchased online is the biggest obstacle to the further development of the internet or the digital economy. i therefore supported this report, firstly because it stresses the importance of establishing a european digital market and secondly because i believe it is also important to work towards removing barriers to the cross-border delivery of products purchased in e-commerce, or on the internet. in doing so, i believe that consumers must be protected, and especially that the equality of all eu citizens must be taken into account, as we have noticed that the delivery of goods purchased online for croatian citizens is sometimes considerably more expensive than in other eu countries. this has to be taken into account for the overall competitiveness of the european union.
- the electronic market grew by 20% in 2012 and is worth 520 billion euros. it is forecast to continue to grow at an annual rate of 10%. that is why quality regulation of this market is necessary. the fragmented market with many different delivery systems without clear guarantees for the security and quality of the delivery of cross-border shipments weakens citizens' trust in national and cross-border electronic services. as many as 50% of consumers don't buy online because they don't have confidence that the product will reach their doorstep. if we add to this the high delivery costs and the long waiting period for delivery, it is clear that additional regulation at european level is needed. it is important to support the amendments to this report proposed by the s&d group in the european parliament, which relate to consumers, workers and business. even in a situation of economic crisis, when any economic activity is welcome, our priority must always be consumer protection, quality of service and a responsible employment policy.
in writing. - the growth of online commerce is becoming increasingly important and we are therefore witnessing a corresponding levelling of the market for parcel delivery related to electronic commerce. as a constantly developing economic segment, it requires a defined regulation which can take account of the needs of all market players. the data available to us still show that there are significant obstacles. among the main ones, it is worth noting the high cost of delivery. the report therefore sets itself the objective of reducing the barriers to such trade and moving towards a more efficient european economic education, which focuses on the needs of consumers.
written. - i support the report because i believe that the availability of efficient and high-quality delivery services is a key element in the online purchase of goods and that they must be promoted by ensuring free and fair competition in the market. many consumers are still reluctant to buy online, especially cross-border, because of uncertainty about available delivery options, costs or reliability. it is necessary to offer efficient systems that guarantee that the package will reach its intended destination safely within a reasonable time. i would point out that the high cost of cross-border or remote delivery is one of the main reasons for consumer dissatisfaction. i agree with the rapporteur's call to the commission to explore the possibility of creating a pan-european trust mark for e-commerce that would contribute to ensuring the quality and reliability of integrated delivery services, increase transparency and legal certainty for consumers and producers, and increase the competitive advantage of entrepreneurs, contributing to both stable economic growth and job creation.
written. - the importance of parcel delivery for the growth of e-commerce in europe is widely recognised. in 2012, the b2c (business to consumer) electronic market in the european union grew by 20% and an additional 10% growth is expected for the whole european region in the period up to 2016. various studies clearly show a strong trend of increase in the number of e-shopping users in croatia. despite the general trend of the increase of electronic commerce, but also the different proportions of electronic purchasing within the eu, what unites consumers across the union is their suspicion towards this type of purchase due to the transparency and the cost of delivery of the goods purchased. the commission notes that the price of postal services in croatia is not the same as the price of postal services in the eu. in the overall process of further developing further e-commerce, with the establishment of an integrated single market for parcel delivery, special attention needs to be paid to small and medium-sized enterprises as well as to adapting delivery to customers in more difficult to reach and remote areas, as this report rightly underlines. it is precisely the removal of consumer distrust, together with the improvement of the quality of access and the reduction of delivery costs, that is one of the preconditions for the further development of this form of trade.
the european steel industry today employs 350 000 workers and provides indirect employment for millions more. that's a big number, but before the crisis, it was way higher. official figures say that the crisis has led to the dismissal of 65,000 workers in the last few years. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the union industry has benefited from the exemption from the anti-dumping duty imposed by regulation (eu) no 1225/2013 on imports of certain flat-rolled products of iron or non-alloy steel originating in the prc. the commission therefore concluded that the union industry was not able to benefit from the measures in force. at the same time, competition from countries such as china is investing in new plants and increasing steel production by using lower energy prices and cheaper labour. the commission therefore concluded that the union industry suffered material injury within the meaning of article 3 (5) of the basic regulation. the european steel industry urgently needs help in the form of concrete measures and strategies. this report is a good first step, but it is up to the commission to come forward with proposals that have both executive and legislative powers as soon as possible.
written. - i supported this report which considers the action plan for the european steel industry as an important element in preventing further relocation of steel production outside europe. the commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are not imputable to the state and that the commission has not found any evidence that the measures in question are imputable to the state. the commission considers that the measures in question are imputable to the state and that the aid is compatible with the internal market. due to the limited resources in europe, energy prices in the eu have increased significantly in recent years, causing a noticeable weakening of the competitiveness of european industry in the world. the european union has competencies, know-how, infrastructure and industrial installations that should not be reduced or abandoned because of short-term profitability or the opening of other hypothetical markets, but it is important to adapt them to the requirements of the future.
written. - i supported this report because i believe that it is this action plan that will ensure that europe is prepared to face competition when global demand for steel is expected to increase. i believe it is important that the eu, as the second largest steel producer in the world, whose industry is essential to the functioning of many other sectors, retains its place on the global stage and prevents the further displacement of this industry beyond its borders. i also support the promotion of a policy of industrial production development aimed at preserving jobs and creating new ones and i am very pleased to point out that the croatian steel industry is on the road to recovery after all the difficulties it has encountered and that croatia, with its producers adria čelik d.o.o. and abs sisak d.o.o., will be able to contribute to this trend and be an active participant in european production.
written. - the history of the european union is directly linked to the steel industry, which is why the regulation of this issue is of extreme economic as well as symbolic importance. i believe that this report, supplemented by a number of amendments by my colleagues, represents an acceptable plan for maintaining the competitiveness of this industry, while emphasising its sustainability. i would particularly like to welcome the chapters of the report that relate to the additional protection of workers' rights and the importance of social dialogue among all stakeholders. the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the new rules on the environment, which will be published in the official journal of the european union in the form of a report. the commission also found that the union industry was not able to compete with the union industry in the union market. the adoption of this report is a step towards that objective, laying the foundations for its achievement, and i therefore support it.
written. - i supported the european commission's action plan for a competitive and sustainable steel industry in europe because the industry currently employs 420,000 people and has a market share of 11% of world production (the eu is second only to china, with 45% of world production). the commission has set a target of increasing total industrial production within europe from the current 15,2% of gdp to 20% by 2020 in certain industrial sectors. steel is an important raw material for other key industries in the european union such as the construction and automotive industries, which together use 40% of steel in europe, but it is also important for engineering, electrical engineering and renewable energy sources. the quality of european steel is its high-tech properties, as well as the fact that currently 13,7% (2008) less raw material is used for its production than in 1980.
written. one of the main reasons for introducing a european financial transaction tax was to seek justice for our citizens. the justice they've been waiting for since 2008. the crisis that has gripped our country for more than five years was caused by the greed of the banking sector and speculation based on financial bubbles from soap operas. nevertheless, the greatest price of the exit from the crisis was paid by citizens with a reduced standard of living, unemployment, more liberal labour legislation, etc. the financial transaction tax (ftt) was conceived as a way for the main perpetrators of the crisis to at least partially compensate for the damage they had caused. unfortunately, lobbying and obstructionist tactics by financial power centers have long prevented its implementation. i call on the european council and the european commission to take courage and to take a step forward on this issue. if they do not, we can only conclude that we have learned nothing from this crisis.
the commission's green paper on the 2030 climate and energy policies is a good example of how the european council can help to ensure that the union is able to compete effectively in the global marketplace. i also believe that this climate policy should not become an anti-industrial policy in order to keep the european union globally competitive. i can therefore support the two-pronged framework because i believe it is the best way to contribute to reducing greenhouse gas emissions while not jeopardising industrial and economic growth. recent studies have shown that 95% of global warming is caused by human activities, compared to 90% in the fourth assessment report in 2007. so we must do everything in our power to preserve the stability of our ecosystem. the union is also at the forefront of technological innovation in the field of renewable energy sources. i stress that the continuation of this policy with binding targets for renewable energy sources will further strengthen the union's position in this area. it has also been demonstrated that the development of renewable energy sources contributes to the goal of reducing greenhouse gas emissions, reducing the need to import fossil fuels and increasing the diversity of our energy sources.
mr president, it is clear that we must adapt this regulation to the lisbon treaty because the reform would remain a dead letter on paper if we do not establish a legal control mechanism. i also agree with some speakers who said that this fisheries policy has remained far from reality and does not take into account the specificities of the member states, so i am talking about croatia here, so there are completely different situations in different countries and therefore i believe that member states should be allowed to develop a regional fisheries policy. we need to create a legal framework, i know it's difficult, but we need to strengthen it because it would be really harmful to let go of the reform that they have achieved by just increasing the budget. however, i doubt that parliament can exercise control over fisheries policy because we do not have the instruments or the committee members to do so.
mr president, i welcome the commission's proposal with amendments from the committee on fisheries. they amend the council regulation establishing a community control system for ensuring compliance with the rules of the common fisheries policy. the change in the old system, the so-called comitology, by the lisbon treaty requires an effective change of powers between the commission, the council and parliament. i think it is right that we are discussing this point in plenary, given that it will be evaluated during the year, as will future control regulation to bring it into line with the common fisheries policy. i consider that the rapporteur's proposal confers on the commission the right powers over the items of the common fisheries policy, which will be classified as implementing acts. i also hope that future commission acts will be tailored to the needs of fishermen across the union and will take into account the specificities resulting from long-standing traditions in the member states. for this reason, i support the view that the european commission should report three years after the entry into force of this proposal.
mr president, commissioner, it is well known that consistent application of the competition principle ultimately leads to lower prices, higher quality and better protection for consumers. the commission has also taken into account the fact that the market share of the union industry is still relatively low, and that the union industry is still in a difficult situation. for this reason, i welcome the conclusion of the agreement on cooperation in competition between the european union and switzerland, the third largest economic partner of the european union. in view of the traditionally high economic interconnectedness of switzerland and the european union, this agreement represents a further step in consolidating good relations and successful cooperation. the commission will continue to monitor the application of the competition rules in the context of the competition rules of the union. regulation harmonisation and close cooperation in this area contribute to the increase of cross-border trade, thereby stimulating growth and production. i hope that the european union will continue to make agreements like this with other countries to reduce the possibility that companies that operate globally do not abuse their position in the world market. i thank mr. george sabin cutaş for this recommendation.
mr president, citizens often ask me, as we are a new member of the european union, what interest they have in the european parliament and what we are actually doing there. i think this is one of the good decisions that affects many of our citizens and passengers. as you know, i come from croatia, where tourism represents 15% of gdp and is a very important link between air transport, tourism and passenger rights. as i come from dubrovnik, which is almost exclusively an airline destination, this topic interests me very much and i am very concerned that passengers can finally exercise their rights. so, it's about having clear information in time, it's about compensation, and i agree with these three hours. i think it's a compromise solution. i also think that passengers should be given all the other rights that mr bach has put forward here and i congratulate him on this remarkable dossier and i believe that we will continue to work and improve more and more the rights of passengers, but not just before the elections, but that we will think about passengers, that is, our citizens, in all the other dossiers. so, a uniform application of the rules across the european union that's what i'm advocating. i want us all to be treated equally when it comes to consumer rights, and here, consumers are passengers.
madam president, can you imagine being in a foreign country, where you don't understand the language, you don't know anyone, you have no money and you're afraid to ask for help? can you imagine yourself in a situation... (the chairman interrupts the speaker)
let me congratulate you, madam president, on your tolerance and openness in your approach and conduct of the sitting, and on the issue i have to speak about, regardless of the legal status of undocumented migrants, i consider it particularly important that special attention be paid to a particularly vulnerable group among them, namely migrant women. unfortunately, in addition to the difficult economic and social conditions of life, migrant women are exposed to various forms of violence, such as domestic violence, forced marriages, sexual abuse, so-called honour crimes and human trafficking. they are also often victims of the black labor market with its many consequences. the commission should also be able to provide information on the impact of the measures taken on the health and safety of women and girls, including on the impact of the measures taken on the health and safety of women and girls, on the health and safety of women and girls, and on the impact of the measures taken on the health and safety of women and girls. i therefore welcome the report by mrs nicolai, which calls on the member states to ensure that the rights of such vulnerable groups in society are protected and to invest more resources in the institutions directly and indirectly involved in tackling these problems.
madam president, i have today supported this report by my colleague, mrs norica nicolai, on undocumented migrants in the european union, because i believe that this is a serious human rights problem, and that it is not only a matter of concern for the institutions of the european union, but also for other international organisations such as the united nations, the council of europe and the international labour organisation. there is no doubt that trafficking in human beings puts people, that is, women, undocumented migrants in very difficult situations in the member states of the european union where they are under pressure from those who abuse and exploit them, and also they have no possibility to protect themselves legally because of the lack of those recommendations that this very report from the european parliament gives to the member states, both in terms of health care, and in terms of reception centers, and in terms of labour legislation in the member states, and i hope that this will help to solve this difficult problem that has recently become present in croatia.
madam president, i supported this report because i believe that the problem of migrants, especially undocumented female migrants, in the european union is a serious problem and i am pleased to be able to participate in trying to solve it. migrant women seeking a better life go to other countries and, with their best intentions, become victims of human trafficking, physical, sexual and psychological abuse, forced labour and similar inhumane situations. the commission should also be able to provide information on the number of cases of irregular migration in the member states, the number of cases of irregular migration in the union and the number of cases of irregular migration in third countries. we need to address the legal uncertainty faced by migrants and provide them with access to basic living conditions in host countries.
written. - i support this report which deals with a very important subject. i think that the report is very complex in its subject matter and that other committees should also deal with this issue. migrants are a shared and joint responsibility of all member states equally, and when it comes to a group that is more vulnerable and that is often the target of the worst crimes, as is the case here, this is of particular importance. the union must take care of the most vulnerable and protect their rights. in addition to undocumented migrants, the issue most often arises is that of the children of these women and their families. given that their lives without legal status are extremely difficult, i would like to emphasize the aspect that i consider most important, which is education. i mean, multiple education, and undocumented immigrants and training in counseling for that group. women who find themselves in such a lawless status often have strong economic, social and political reasons for doing so, and as such are subject to risky situations such as forced labour, physical abuse, etc. the number of women in trafficking is a particularly high risk problem, exceeding 65%. because of the impasse in which this group finds itself, i believe that education as a long-term solution, along with an operational short-term solution, is of the utmost importance.
written. - the fundamental rights of migrant women in the european union must be protected and guaranteed, and therefore the best possible cooperation between member states and with civil society organisations dealing with these issues is needed. as an example of good practice, i would mention the work of the centre for peace studies in croatia, which provides free legal assistance and advice in the areas of all types of discrimination and in the areas of citizenship, temporary residence, permanent residence, asylum and subsidiary protection. the european union must find a way to recognise the value of the work of women who, despite being undocumented, provide useful services and contribute to the functioning of the society that has welcomed them. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on migration and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on migration and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on migration and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on migration and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on migration and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on migration and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on migration and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on migration and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on migration and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on migration and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on migration and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on migration and asylum.
madam president, it is becoming increasingly difficult to find seasonal workers in the european union, particularly in tourism and agriculture. employers therefore increasingly need workers from outside the european union. it is estimated that some 100,000 workers from these countries come to the european union each year to do seasonal work. i welcome the adoption of this directive because it will improve the situation of these workers. it lays down rules to prevent the exploitation of workers and simplifies the rules for their entry and residence in the european union. i believe that it is of the utmost importance for every worker, whether from the european union or coming to work temporarily from a country outside the union, to feel safe, protected and it is essential to ensure decent working and living conditions. we in the european union are proud of the level of protection of workers' rights, and this directive guarantees the same rights to workers from third countries.
madam president, as i come from the youngest member of the european union whose citizens were third-country nationals until 1 july, i supported the adoption of such regulations because many croatian citizens also worked seasonal jobs outside their homeland, not because they wanted to, but because they were unfortunately forced to, sometimes for political reasons, sometimes because of the bad economic situation. i supported the proposal because i consider that a special procedure for third-country nationals applying for employment in the union during seasonal employment is necessary, and in particular the amendment defining the rights of seasonal workers is relevant. a maximum of 90 days is particularly welcome if we consider that items such as health care, safety, working conditions and employers' obligations to seasonal workers are met. i can therefore say with certainty that this is a regulation which will make it easier for third-country nationals to work, and i am particularly pleased that the demographic picture of third countries has been taken into account and that the maximum period of residence for workers has been set at nine months.
madam president, i supported the report because i believe that social dumping and the protection of workers' rights are important issues that are being raised here and that is why we must have a solution that we can be proud of. for this reason, i fully supported the rapporteur's proposals, which specifically refer to stronger protection of the rights, working conditions and adequate accommodation of seasonal workers and the obligation of member states to ensure the implementation of these rules through the establishment of mechanisms for the supervision of employers, recruitment agencies and other intermediaries. it is equally important that member states put in place mechanisms through which seasonal workers can seek legal protection, either directly or indirectly through trade unions or other associations. seasonal workers must have access to judicial protection without fear of possible consequences. i considered it necessary to support the proposal that the above apply to third-country nationals already in the european union who are not authorised to work under the existing rules and to those who do not have a regulated status in a way that would allow them a transitional period during which they could apply for seasonal work.
the need for seasonal workers outside the european union is common in most member states and also in the republic of croatia, especially in summer periods. this report and the directive seek to prevent illegal work and provide a single legal framework for member states to adequately address the issue of their stay and employment in different occupations. i supported the introduction of an accelerated procedure for third-country nationals to access seasonal employment in the european union and the definition of the conditions and terms under which they are granted residence. the commission has also provided a number of additional information to the member states on the application of the rules on the recognition of higher education diplomas and the conditions for granting such diplomas.
written. - as the croatian economy is based on tourism and related activities, i consider the legal regulation of the position of seasonal workers to be extremely important. branches of the economy such as tourism and agriculture, which tend to be seasonal, are often dependent on unforeseeable circumstances, the effects of which can be felt in the labour force. the question of the rights and obligations of seasonal workers must therefore be settled in detail. for example, third-country workers, whether or not they are resident in a member state, must have the right to decent working and living conditions and to transparent and clearly-defined rules on seasonal work permits. therefore, seasonal work permits should be based on a concluded employment contract or, at a minimum, on a binding offer. the temporary limitation of the validity of seasonal work permits would reduce the possibility of abuse of this instrument in the labour market.
written. - i support this proposal as it is the first post-lisbon legal instrument dealing with legal migration and is part of the comprehensive package of measures proposed in the 2005 policy plan on legal migration. migration flows and labour mobility are always better managed by the establishment of fundamental rules such as this directive, rather than by repression. this union-wide framework to regulate the rights and prevent the exploitation of workers from non-eu countries provides added value in terms of the protection of these workers. the commission should also be able to provide information on the impact of the measures taken on the environment and the environment protection. i particularly support the provision in the commission proposal which sets a maximum permissible period of 6 months to prevent irregular immigration. i also welcome the introduction of a new article on sanctions and an article on monitoring and inspections. foreign nationals of third countries coming to the member states of the union for the purpose of seasonal employment deserve equal treatment and should be provided with an effective mechanism to enforce their rights.
written. - i supported the report by mr moraes on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purpose of seasonal employment. in view of the fact that the economies of the member states of the european union need third-country nationals in terms of seasonal employment in certain jobs in different economic sectors (agriculture, tourism, etc.), i consider that this directive sets out in a good way the conditions for entry and stay of seasonal workers in the eu and defines their rights. this directive constitutes a continuation of the efforts made by the european union to develop a common policy on migration since the adoption of the stockholm programme. i believe that it will contribute to the fight against illegal migration and to the improvement of the working and living conditions of seasonal workers. seasonal workers will have a valid employment contract, working hours, holidays, health conditions and protection at work. in case of violation of their rights, employers will be punished with heavy fines, which will contribute to the suppression of excessive exploitation.
written. - years of work and commitment by iccat have resulted in saving the atlantic tuna from extinction. it was justified to introduce a ban on imports of atlantic bigeye tuna from countries which did not comply with the rules laid down. i support the lifting of the ban on imports of atlantic bluefin tuna and atlantic bluefin tuna products from bolivia and georgia as they have started to comply with the signed rules. the adriatic sea, especially the part belonging to croatia, is one of the few seas where tuna, due to the preserved fishery of small blue fish and the characteristics of the separated coast, comes to feed and grow. the increase in the fishing quotas allocated to the republic of croatia in the last two years from 376 tonnes to 390 tonnes shows that the atlantic tuna stock is increasing. all the indications and the frequent complaints from croatian fishermen that large flocks of tuna are scattering their small blue fish and destroying their nets, lead us to conclude that there is a need to increase the tuna quota for the republic of croatia. this is also evident when we compare the data that croatia had a quota of about 1300 tonnes until a decade ago, and no significant decrease in the tuna population was observed. the scientific method has identified worrying data on the disappearance of tuna in the world's seas and has successfully launched a programme to conserve atlantic tuna: the same should be done when we have relevant indicators of a strong recovery and allow an increase in fishing quotas for the republic of croatia.
written. - the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (iccat) is the only regional organisation that monitors the state of biohazard of tuna and tuna-like species in the atlantic, mediterranean and associated marginal seas for the conservation and protection of natural stocks. the iccat convention on long-night management (cnt) provides for the establishment of a system of fishing quotas for the union's fishing fleet, which is based on the iccat convention on long-night management (lnn). as iccat has recognised the efforts made by countries to improve their level of protection, i have supported this report on the repeal of regulation (ec) no 827/2004 prohibiting the import of atlantic bigeye tuna from bolivia, cambodia, equatorial guinea, georgia and sierra leone.
written. - in 1998, the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (iccat) adopted resolution 98-18 concerning the unreported and unregulated catching of tuna by fishing vessels in a certain area of the atlantic ocean. the commission has also taken into account the fact that the fishing opportunities available to the union are limited to the areas defined in the relevant iccat convention. the council and the fisheries committee of the european parliament rejected the commission's proposal to ban tuna imports from bolivia, cambodia, equatorial guinea, sierra leone and georgia because the committee considers that it is necessary to impose so-called sanctions on tuna imports only from georgia and bolivia, which are in the opinion of the fisheries committee in violation of resolution 98-18. as a member of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, i have supported this statement because i believe it contributes to sustainable and balanced environmental development and environmental protection in accordance with international regulations.
written. - i believe that the eu-gabon protocol, provided for in the fisheries partnership agreement between the two parties, based on the principle of sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources, will help to establish responsible fishing in the gabonese fishing zone. although the protocol allows the catching of tuna and other migratory species, it should be borne in mind that the activities of european union fishing vessels in the gabonese fishing zone are subject to the laws and regulations of gabon and that the prohibition on catching other protected species must accordingly be respected. the promotion of experimental fishing for a period of no more than 12 months and scientific cooperation on responsible fishing must be based on the principle of non-discrimination in technical conservation measures between the different fleets fishing in those waters and on the principle of sustainable management of fisheries resources and marine ecosystems. access by foreign fleets to fishery resources in the gabonese fishing zone must be controlled and allowed only if all conditions are met. of great importance are computer systems that will help in the exchange of information and documents.
written. - i support this proposal because it has an economic, an economic and a social objective. the proposal aims to encourage cooperation between the parties, which will lead to prosperity in the fisheries sector and ensure that eu citizens have a stable, safe and healthy food supply in the long term. the proposal also makes clear that the principle of preserving the marine environment will be respected, and that fisheries management will be guided by an ecological and precautionary approach. this will ensure that the impact of fishing activities on the marine ecosystem is limited and that marine resources are protected. both sides are certainly benefiting. in croatia, too, fishing plays an important social and economic role, although the fishing industry is not at the level it should be. efficient and sustainable management and management of marine and coastal areas is still not sufficiently emphasised, and we must therefore always promote sustainable blue development so that future generations have healthy food supplies.
written. - greenland, being part of the kingdom of denmark, a member of the european union, and given its geostrategic position in the arctic, is of particular interest to the european union. the excellent relations and cooperation between the european union, on the one hand, and greenland and the kingdom of denmark, on the other hand, have also been confirmed by the implementation of the council decision for the period 2007-2013. i support this report, which seeks to continue this cooperation for the period 2014-2020. i believe that focusing on fewer areas in which financial support will continue is a very good choice, as it will increase the impact, effectiveness and visibility of what the union is doing in this cooperation. i would also like to stress that, in improving relations and developing cooperation in sensitive areas such as exploration and exploitation of mineral resources, it is very important to bear in mind the value, but also the vulnerability, of the arctic ecosystem, and in this regard to respect high safety, social and environmental standards. in view of the climate change that is evident, greenland will certainly face a series of consequences of this change in its near future, in a positive as well as in a negative sense, and the european union must keep a watchful eye on developments and be ready to respond, as a responsible and reliable partner.
written. - i supported the report on the relations between the european union and greenland and the kingdom of denmark. the 2006 joint declaration by the european union, greenland and denmark defined the common priorities of the partnership and served as the basis for cooperation in the period 2007-2013. as the partnership/cooperation agreement expired on 31 december 2013, there is a need to adopt a new partnership framework for the period 2014 to 2020. in view of the geostrategic importance of greenland and the arctic and, therefore, the interests of the european union, further cooperation between the european union and greenland is needed, in particular in areas such as energy, climate change, environment, natural resources (where the exploitation of natural resources must apply the highest safety, social and environmental protection standards).
the arctic region, which includes the world's largest island, greenland, has attracted additional attention in recent years, largely due to the impact of climate change in that part of the world. gradual melting of the ice leads to the exploitation of natural resources, including minerals, gas and oil, and easier navigation allows for sustainable sea passage between europe, asia and the americas. climate change will undoubtedly have a negative impact on the flora and fauna, as well as on the traditions and way of life of the inhabitants. economic development, especially mining and oil and gas extraction, is likely to pose serious and obvious threats to an already fragile ecosystem. the proposal for a council decision on relations between the european union, of the one part, and greenland and the kingdom of denmark, of the other part, establishes a framework for cooperation between the parties for the period 2014-2020. however, in order to prevent over-exploitation of natural resources, it should be emphasised that eu financial assistance under this partnership should be concentrated on addressing challenges such as: increasing the skills of the workforce, including scientists, shaping sustainable diversification of the economy and improving greenland's information systems and its competitiveness in the field of information and communication technologies.
written. - the territory of greenland is in a specific situation because of its geographical position and its political organisation. under part iv of the treaty on european union, greenland falls within the category of overseas territories and countries, which makes it part of europe. with a gdp per capita of $36,000, greenland's economy is very prosperous, as is its standard of living and its level of human rights. however, greenland is more exposed to climate change than other areas, which plays a major role in the development of the economy. its economy is mainly dependent on the export of fish, which accounts for as much as 80% of greenland's total income. we should not overlook the great potential of natural minerals, primarily gems, gas and oil. the adoption of this commission proposal for a programme until 2020 will allow for the strengthening of the relationship between the european union on the one hand and the kingdom of denmark and greenland on the other, which is of paramount importance for the economies of both parties, as well as for the sustainable use of natural resources and the preservation of the arctic ecosystem.
written. - i welcome this report because i consider that cooperation between the european union and greenland and the kingdom of denmark is important for all three parties. in view of the common objectives of the partnership, the social and political foundations, and taking into account the geostrategic importance of greenland and the arctic for the eu, i support further cooperation with these countries, and for the establishment of a new programme for 2014-2020, as the old programme is no longer operational as of 31 december 2013. the new partnership programme will facilitate consultation and policy dialogue on objectives and areas of cooperation of common interest, in particular in areas such as: energy, climate change and environmental protection, natural resources including raw materials and excluding fishery products, and maritime transport, research and innovation are just some of the areas of great interest to the eu and to the citizens of the member states.
written. - almost daily, we are confronted by the media with the devastating effects of natural and man-made disasters. no country or region is spared. natural, social and geophysical factors can greatly influence the frequency of disasters and the extent of economic losses. as the citizens of the republic of croatia have suffered enormous material damage caused by floods over the past two years, i consider it extremely important to emphasise the preventive nature of this motion for a resolution, which emphasises raising awareness of the risks of disasters, their increasing frequency but also their unpredictability, and the importance of information in preventing and mitigating such disasters. the union should also support the development of a comprehensive and coherent approach to the prevention of and response to emerging threats to human health and the environment, including through the development of a comprehensive and coherent approach to the prevention of and response to emerging threats to human health and the environment.
written. - this report is a contribution to the green paper published by the european commission last year. calls for better prevention and information to citizens, and for the exchange of information and best practices between member states. in the event of natural and man-made disasters, cooperation between member states is of particular importance. natural and other disasters do not know national borders, and therefore the protection against them should have a common dimension. croatia is a country that, because of its geographical position, suffers from central european floods in winter and mediterranean fires in summer. our experienced rescue and protection services are trained to operate in almost any conditions and can provide assistance to any country that requests it. i welcome this report, which calls on other member states to follow good practice.
written. - i support this report. unfortunately, because of its geographical location, croatia is prone to floods and fires. these disasters often have a devastating effect on the biosphere of the affected areas. environmental accidents such as water and soil pollution have a direct and long-term negative impact on the health of the population. in the light of the discussion on the instruments for stability which we had last december, i would like to stress again the importance of joint action. for example, croatia sends its canadian volunteers to neighboring countries every summer to help put out fires. due to the unsystematic way of working, it often happens that during the biggest fires in croatia, croatian canadians have to fly and put out fires in the neighborhood. if we could build a coordinated prevention system, it would also reduce costs because it's cheaper to invest in prevention than it is to repair the damage. i would like to stress in particular the importance of the participation of local authorities in decision-making on natural disaster management planning. only through cooperation can high-risk areas be assessed more accurately and subsequently classified and the cause of the disaster assessed accordingly.
written. - i supported the natural disaster and man-made disaster insurance report today because it stresses the importance of preventing information. it encourages the development of partnerships between insurance companies and research institutes to pool resources and knowledge in order to make citizens aware of the possibilities of risk prevention and loss avoidance in the event of disasters as soon as possible. the european union solidarity fund is the union's fundamental mechanism for action in the event of a disaster. the republic of croatia received over 2 million kuna from this fund for flood damage in 2013. the commission should also be able to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 21 to supplement this regulation by establishing a list of the types of insurance cover that are covered by the scheme.
written. - natural and man-made disasters have a profound effect on every person they strike, not only materially but also psychologically. i supported this report because i believe that systematic information to citizens and good preparation are half the job well done. but despite the preventive measures, there is a need to bring greater order to the disaster insurance market. insurance companies must provide accurate information to their customers, to avoid that after one surviving disaster, citizens experience another one - one in which they cannot get insurance money for the damage they believe they are insured for. the commission should be able to assess the impact of the measures on the financial markets and the financial markets in general. in conclusion, i hope that member states will really recognise the importance of risk prevention when forming their disaster insurance investment strategies.
written. - natural disasters affect people in remote areas the most because they often leave them completely isolated, without electricity, water and heating, since croatia has a significant population in hard-to-reach areas such as islands, this type of insurance i consider extremely important. according to the croatian insurance bureau, croatian citizens spend over ten million euros on insurance, and that number is growing every year. in line with the european parliament's call on member states to create and maintain crisis response units to mitigate the consequences of such crises, i am pleased to note that the republic of croatia is one of the trend leaders and the winner of the european award for the successful implementation and testing of e-call in the context of emergency services. insurance against natural disasters such as earthquakes, floods, droughts, storms, cold and fire, but also against man-made disasters such as explosions, chain-collision accidents in traffic and the like are the most important insurance constitute a basic public good and are the basis for developing solidarity and building a common spirit. the protection and rescue of citizens in the wake of and after these disasters also highlights the need for a stronger link between local and regional authorities and higher authorities - both national and european, as this report rightly points out.
written. - i support the motion for a resolution which stresses that prevention is the most important factor in protecting people and avoiding losses caused by unforeseen events. the european union must develop as a society with a high level of citizen awareness of natural and man-made risks and i welcome the linking of research institutes and insurance companies with the aim of preparing citizens to be more capable of dealing with risks. this is also a call on the croatian government to take preventive measures to mitigate the consequences of natural disasters, to encourage citizens to raise awareness of the risks of natural disasters by examples of practice from the european union. since the state, and ultimately the local community, bears the bulk of the burden of direct or indirect costs, i believe that additional work must be done on the implementation of appropriate preventive measures to mitigate any consequences.
written. - mr president, there are three main reasons why i supported the report by our finnish colleague sampa terha. firstly, i am pleased that the report recognises that the european union insurance market is very diverse precisely because of the unequal exposure of member states to different risks and natural disasters and that the predictability of these same risks and disasters depends on a whole range of different meteorological, hydrological and geophysical factors. in this respect, this report clearly underlines the need for the free framework that the insurance market in the different member states must maintain. this is useful and good because it is clear that uniformity in this case would not be desirable at all. second, although the report goes against the 'one size fits all' principle, it clearly emphasises the importance of ensuring that policyholders, regardless of the member state, are accurately and clearly informed about the advantages and disadvantages of the insurance contracts they sign. in times of various market and other manipulations, this item is particularly important. in conclusion, the principle of preventing disasters of all kinds, whether natural or man-made, is an equally important part of the report, as is the one that encourages member states to inform their citizens about the benefits of voluntary insurance. i congratulate colleague terh on a job well done. thank you very much.
written. - i supported the decision to consult the european economic and social committee on the structure and organisation of the social dialogue in the context of economic and monetary union. the purpose of this consultation was derived from the commission's communication on strengthening the social dimension of economic and monetary union. i consider it useful to continuously strengthen the social dialogue at eu level, including employers, trade unions and civil society, and in this regard i also support the activities of the croatian representatives in the european economic and social committee, whom i recently met.
written. - i supported the adoption of the european parliament's calendar of sittings because i believe that it regulates the dynamics of the european parliament's sittings in an appropriate way and in accordance with current practice. the adopted calendar of parliament's sittings for 2015 maintains twelve plenary sessions of parliament in strasbourg of four days each and thus confirms strasbourg as the seat of the european parliament. in view of the increasing scope of parliament's work and powers following the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, i believe that the planned mini-plenary sessions in brussels will also contribute to the efficiency of the work.
written. - i have supported the appointment of sabine lautenschläger as vice-chair of the supervisory board of the european central bank for a term of 5 years. on the basis of a hearing of the committee on economic and monetary affairs held on 3 february 2014, a favourable opinion was delivered on the proposal of the european central bank to appoint sabine lautenschläger as vice-president. the opinion shall be based on the candidate's answers to the written questionnaire, the candidate's answers during the hearing at the relevant committee, as well as her professional qualifications. i consider that her qualifications, confirmed by her long experience at deutsche bundesbank and the federal financial supervisory board of germany in various capacities, would make a positive contribution to her new role as vice-chair of the supervisory board of the european central bank.
madam president, i voted in favour of this agreement between the european union and the swiss confederation. the commission has in the past raised a number of concerns about practices involving swiss companies and the market as they have a significant impact on the eu market. although switzerland is not a member of the european union, it belongs to the schengen agreement and therefore it is very important, and very important, that information that can affect the member states of the european union, must be transparent and available to all countries, so that information, which could affect the various economic and social changes that are happening in switzerland. the same applies to croatia, it is very important to note that we want to maintain a positive relationship with switzerland because many swiss companies operate in croatia.
madam president, i am pleased that, after concluding agreements on cooperation in competition with the united states, canada, japan and south korea, we are now moving towards concluding similar agreements with switzerland. as is well known, switzerland is the european union's third largest economic partner and second largest recipient of foreign direct investment. this is a significant indicator of the importance of this agreement, especially when we consider that the swiss economy and the eu economy are closely integrated and very strongly interlinked. i believe it is crucial to further strengthen international cooperation in the enforcement of clear competition rules, especially in view of the increasing abuses of these rules. the commission notes that the agreement between the two parties is not a mere legal instrument, but rather a legal instrument that is binding on the parties and enables them to take action against the infringement of competition law. as such, the european union's agreement with switzerland is of immense importance for regulating trade and foreign investment. for the reasons stated above, i was very happy to support the recommendations of my colleague cutaşa.
written. - switzerland is the eu's third largest economic partner and second largest recipient of foreign direct investment. our economies are closely interconnected. the agreement with switzerland is an important step for the european union, especially considering the strategic importance of its geographical position for the eu and the number of parallel investigations carried out by both judicial systems. the eu and switzerland have similar rules and practices which facilitate the implementation of the agreement. i believe that we need international cooperation in the enforcement of competition rules. the commission has also found that the conditions for the granting of the aid are not met. it is therefore necessary for the commission and the swiss competition commission to continue the fight against cartels. they harm consumers and hamper innovation and have a negative impact on the competitiveness of both economies. i am convinced of the success of this agreement with mutual respect and i am glad that croatia is part of this international agreement.
written. - i support the report proposal on the agreement between the european union and the swiss confederation on cooperation in the application of their competition laws. the commission notes that the agreement between the two parties is not binding on the parties and that the parties have not yet reached an agreement on the terms of the agreement. switzerland is the eu's third largest economic partner and second largest recipient of foreign direct investment. our economies are closely integrated but many anti-competitive practices affect cross-border trade. foreign trade between switzerland and croatia has been declining and in 2013 it fell by 13,23% compared to 2012. this regulation will also open a wider door to the swiss economy for croatia as an eu member. i would like to commend the implementation of the agreement which will be facilitated by the similarity of rules and practices between the eu and switzerland. the eu should build on this experience and continue to conclude 'second generation' agreements with other partners, regardless of the complexity of the differences in rules and practices.
written. - i supported the recommendation of my colleague cutaşa, with a strong general advocacy of respecting the competition rules. the commission has also taken note of the fact that the swiss authorities have not yet provided any evidence that the measures taken by the commission to comply with the competition rules are in line with the competition rules. this is primarily the case for european businesses, but also for states and citizens who are obliged to comply with internal rules prohibiting anti-competitive behaviour in their dealings with other member states. the european union should really work on such 'second generation' agreements with all the eu's other economic partners, because if it doesn't, we are putting our economy and our businesses at unnecessary risk. they rightly expect protection, since they themselves must abide by the strict rules we set to protect the free and single market. finally, we must also keep in mind that consumers will be the biggest losers from the negative effects of unfair competition.
written. - the conclusion of new agreements on the implementation of competition policy should be encouraged and promoted. the committee on economic and monetary affairs unanimously welcomes the agreement with the swiss confederation. the swiss confederation is the eu's third largest trading partner and the second largest recipient of foreign investment, and the eu and swiss confederation economies are closely linked in many cross-border trades. the implementation of the agreement will be facilitated by the similar practices in place in the eu and the swiss confederation, and the eu should continue to conclude second-level agreements with other trading partners, irrespective of certain differences in regulations and practices that exist. in this age of globalized companies, and global value chains, of non-competitive behavior, of cartels exploiting market dominance, it's optimistic to see agreements being made between countries that are willing to abide by them. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the financial interests of the union. i hope that the swiss parliament will support this proposal and that the european union and the swiss confederation will further enhance their already intensive cooperation in the future.
written. - i supported the recommendation of mr cutas on the council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and the swiss confederation on cooperation in the enforcement of competition law. the eu is in the process of concluding a bilateral cooperation agreement with switzerland to structure and facilitate cooperation between the commission and the national competition authority and to allow for the exchange of confidential information. the agreement will regulate the transfer and use of information between the commission and the swiss competition commission and the provisions on information protection. such an agreement is very important in an increasingly globalised world and is important in terms of cross-border cooperation between the eu and neighbouring countries. the commission notes that the measure is not intended to create or maintain a dominant position in the market for the supply of electricity to the electricity market. the commission has also received comments from the croatian authorities on the application of the competition rules to the acquisition of the rights of defence of the republic of croatia.
madam president, as i have already said, the swiss confederation is not a member of the european union, but it is a member of the schengen area and is a very important vital partner for the countries of the european union. there is therefore a significant interest for the european union to ensure cooperation and a high degree of consistency between the laws of the european union and switzerland, which is why i voted in favour of this resolution. for croatia as a new member, this resolution is very important because many swiss companies are located in our country and it is important that this resolution can be considered a model for future bilateral cooperation, i.e. contracts. however, there are parts of this agreement that need to be harmonised in order to make transparent information exchange available and i hope that we will do so in the future.
madam president, the oral question by mr cutaşa, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, reflects the european parliament's concern to continue actively promoting cooperation on the implementation of competition at international level. the european union has bilateral agreements on competition with the united states, canada, japan and south korea, and it is this recent agreement with switzerland that will further contribute to regulating this important aspect, a key aspect of the european union's internal market and a level playing field for all in this vast market. i consider that this type of cooperation agreement on competition is very welcome in a globalised economic environment where cartels and cross-border legal measures need to be prevented. i also believe that croatia, as a new member, is in the right situation and that through its national competition authorities it participates in all forms of cooperation with countries other than the european union member states.
written. - i support the proposal for a report on the european union cooperation agreement on the implementation of competition policy and the next steps. following the conclusion of agreements on cooperation in competition with the usa, canada, japan, south korea and switzerland, i also welcome the initiative on cooperation with india. i believe that the council and the commission should promote this type of bilateral agreement until multilateral cooperation is fully in place. the commission therefore considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market and that it is compatible with the internal market if it is granted in accordance with the conditions laid down in the guidelines on state aid for environmental protection and energy efficiency [18].
written. - unlike weapons of mass destruction and landmines, the trade in conventional weapons was not regulated by legally binding international regulations. the arms trade treaty (att) intends to change that flaw. the arms trade treaty establishes a common international standard for regulating international trade in conventional arms, and to some extent, ammunition and component parts. the att has established the first global regulation of the legal trade in firearms, which will prevent illegal trade. it will also help to counter international terrorism and organised crime, and curb serious violations of human rights and international humanitarian law. furthermore, the treaty regulates the trade in the types of weapons most commonly used in local wars, terrorist attacks and coups. member states are required to establish a national control system for arms transfers and for assessing the risk that these arms could endanger peace and security or be used to commit violations of international humanitarian law, human rights and terrorism. for this reason, i support this report and express the hope that it will contribute to disarmament and arms control.
written. - unlike the trade in weapons of mass destruction and landmines, the trade in conventional weapons is not yet regulated, and currently the un arms trade treaty serves as the common standard for regulating trade at the international level. the un arms trade treaty also serves as a means of preventing the illicit trade and use of non-conventional weapons and promoting peace, security and stability. its ratification would play a significant role in the fight against terrorism, corruption and instability. the eu is not in a position to ratify the att, only the member states can do so, but the commission is advocating the introduction of provisions of the treaty that would fall within the union's competence, within the eu's trade policy. the ratification of such a treaty by member states would complement certain regulations that are insufficiently elaborated for the eu by the existing un treaty. for example, drones, military technology and tear gas are not included in the un's import, transfer and brokering clause. according to the stockholm international peace research institute (sipri), the eu exports 26% of the world's arms exports, and 61% of those exports go outside the eu. i support this report with the new provisions on the creation of arms control regulations and the promotion of confidence among member states.
written. - we are witnessing, unfortunately, the daily sale and trafficking of weapons, from those of mass destruction, to those used for the purpose of maintaining state order and the needs of defense. i consider it necessary to reduce the possibility of any exploitation and misuse of the production and sale of arms for the purposes of terrorism and other forms of violence, and to underline the need to place arms under strict control by the national authorities of the member states. this treaty will enable global arms control and will prevent its sale on the black market, in order to prevent all forms of terrorism in the world and the sale and trafficking of arms by organized crime. as a result of the above, serious violations of human rights and international humanitarian law will also be prevented. we have seen many hotbeds of war, terrorist attacks, and countless innocent victims. i voted for this report because i believe it is our duty to do at least what is in our power to stop this and contribute to reducing the hatred that erupts through weapons.
written. - the arms trade treaty is a historic achievement in establishing international standards related to regulation and transparency in arms exports and imports, control of trade in conventional arms and ammunition, increased responsibility of arms manufacturers and protection of human rights in general. this treaty serves as an example of how joint cooperation can achieve concrete objectives and contribute to the protection of human rights and security, not only at union level but also at a broader, global level. in addition to increasing transparency, the treaty also achieves more responsible trade by applying high common international standards for imports, exports and transfers. from the very beginning, croatia has supported the international efforts that led to the conclusion of the arms trade treaty and is currently one of the 116 countries that have signed it. on 21 january 2014, at a session of the croatian parliament, the legislative committee discussed the draft law on the ratification of the arms trade treaty and unanimously supported the adoption of this law. the treaty makes a particular contribution to promoting peace, stability and security, thereby helping to pursue the primary objectives and core values of the union. the report under discussion today is an additional incentive for member states to take steps to ratify the treaty and thus contribute to the successful implementation of all that this treaty stands for and is therefore worth supporting.
written. - i supported the adoption of the recommendation on a council decision authorising member states to ratify the arms trade treaty in the interest of the european union. following years of negotiations, united nations resolution a/67/l.58 on the arms trade treaty was adopted in april 2013. it was necessary to establish common international standards and regulate the trade in conventional arms in order to combat the illicit trade that favours international terrorism and organised crime. in view of the alarming un estimates of almost one million out of eight million weapons produced per day being lost or stolen and mostly ending up in the wrong hands, i believe it is important to move quickly towards ratification of the arms trade treaty at member state level, as this will prevent gross violations of international human rights and humanitarian law. due to the war events of the 1990s, croatia is well aware that conventional weapons pose a threat not only during the armed conflict but also after its end. i consider that the signature of this treaty by the member states is in the interest of the european union and that it will send a strong message to third countries that have not yet done so.
written. - the arms trade treaty aims to regulate international trade in conventional arms and eradicate the illegal arms trade. the parties shall cooperate in the implementation of the convention on the prohibition of the use, stockpiling, production and transfer of anti-personnel mines and on their destruction. i believe that it will also prevent or substantially reduce the illegal arms trade, organised crime and international terrorism. as this is the first attempt to regulate the arms trade in a legally binding way, i believe that the ratification of this treaty will significantly raise the european standard of arms regulation. i therefore voted in favour of this motion for a resolution, which gives parliament its consent to authorise the member states to ratify the arms trade treaty in the interests of the european union.
in writing. - i support the recommendation of the arms trade treaty as it is an important in creating an international standard for regulating the trade of illicit arms and thus contributing to peace, security, reducing human suffering, promoting inter-state cooperation, transparency and state responsibility. unlike weapons of mass destruction and land mines, the trade in conventional weapons has not been subject to a legally-binding global instrument, which highlights the importance of adopting the arms trade treaty. as major countries that are importers and exporters of weapons such as the us and india refrained from signing the treaty, it is vital that the eu, with roughly 26 % of weapons exports, takes this opportunity to present itself as a leader with this treaty. croatia was involved in speculation over illegal arms exports to syria as recent as last year, which is why i would like to highlight the importance of this treaty and support its aim of contributing to reducing the international illicit arms trade. with a transparent exchange of information, this treaty will help us maintain and improve social and economic standards that can otherwise cause a great lack of stability, poverty, regional tensions, terrorism, corruption and, if in the hands of the wrong people, violence as well as major breaches of basic human rights.
madam president, today i of course supported the resolutions we have supported the ratification of the arms trade treaty in the member states of the european union. it is a major negotiation process that took several years and resulted in an agreement at the united nations general assembly last april. the fact is that the international trade in conventional weapons is worth, in monetary terms, $70 billion a year, and the un estimates that nearly one million out of every eight million weapons produced daily are lost or stolen and end up in the wrong hands. that means that this is the kind of conventional weaponry that we need to regulate. the european union accounts for as much as 26% of global arms exports and 61% of exports go outside the european union. i believe that by swiftly ratifying at the national level, we can send a strong message about conventional arms control.
written. - i support the arms trade treaty which for the first time introduces internationally agreed legal procedures related to the trade in conventional arms. it is a historic achievement in establishing international standards and regulates international trade in conventional arms. this treaty is an important message that joint cooperation can achieve concrete objectives and define international standards that help in the effort to combat the illegal arms trade and implement and promote the values that bind us. the treaty also promotes peace, stability and security, both at european and global level, and thus contributes to the achievement of the union's fundamental objectives. a more transparent and accountable arms trade contributes to peace-building and humanitarian efforts and to combating the illicit trade in arms. the fight against illicit trafficking is one of the key elements in the area of ensuring world peace and security and should be addressed at the global level, which is precisely what this treaty is doing. the un general assembly adopted the arms trade treaty on 3 june 2013, after which the treaty was opened for signature and ratification and has been signed by 116 countries to date, including croatia. it is necessary that the institutions of the european union and the member states take all measures to cooperate in connection with the ratification of this treaty and to ensure the implementation of the obligations arising therefrom.
madam president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on this well-done job, since this is a very sensitive subject and we know that five years ago the attempt to protect trade in the european union failed. the compromise reached confirms the need to adopt this regulation and this project, however controversial it may have seemed. the positive change is that we used to seek compensation for the injury to the union industry in the amount of the injury suffered, and this regulation imposes a penalty that will be higher than the injury caused to the european industry, so i hope that the council will also recognise the importance of this report, especially as no one expected that a solution could be reached due to the time limit, but also due to the content. i am aware that it is only possible to create jobs and economic growth through an aggressive industrial policy that addresses investors, businesses and research, and that we therefore need effective instruments for market protection, which is one of the reasons why i supported this report.
madam president, i have today supported the adoption of the report by mr fjellner on dumping and subsidised imports. i think that this proposal for a regulation on protection against dumped imports from countries which are not members of the european union and on protection against subsidised imports from countries which are not members of the european union is precisely the right way to protect our economic interests. global open trade and the world trade organisation provide opportunities for job creation, but also imply fair competition without those trade-related measures that undermine such competition. i therefore believe that the proposals which will be made available to the european commission following this regulation are precisely the right instruments to defend our trade interests against those countries and markets which pursue a low-price policy in order to come and threaten our production in some way.
madam president, i supported this report and the proposal for a regulation on protection against dumped and subsidised imports from countries outside the european union. free trade is one of the drivers of economic growth and development and the creation of new jobs, but the import of products below market price leads to market distortions and it is therefore very important that all member states, including the republic of croatia, apply the common commercial policy of the european union in a high quality manner. the commission has not found any evidence that the measures in force are likely to have a significant impact on the situation of the union industry.
written. - this report aims to modernise the legislation dealing with anti-dumping practices and subsidising imports. in drawing up this proposal, the european commission has been guided by three basic premises: increasing the efficiency of legislation, preventing harmful countermeasures by third countries and increasing transparency. presumably bearing in mind the different positions and interests of european producers and importers, some of whom suffer injury from dumping and others benefit from low-priced imports, the report is structured in such a way as to try to satisfy both sides. in its desire to balance the text, the commission has gone even further than what it is obliged to do under the agreements with the world trade organisation. however, i welcome the amendments incorporated by the s&d group in the proposal which limit the trade preferences that can be granted to third countries in the event that they do not respect high social and environmental standards.
- dumping and subsidised imports from non-eu countries are one of the main threats to the functioning of the eu economy. the commission also found that the union industry's sales prices to unrelated customers in the union were significantly higher than the sales prices to unrelated customers in the union. recognising the extreme importance of regulating this issue, i am pleased that the european parliament is deciding on this issue on an equal footing with the council. given that the anti-dumping regulation and the regulation against subsidised imports from countries not members of the european union have not been substantially revised since the end of the uruguay round in 1995, it is high time to modernise the measures and adapt them to the new global market conditions, which have changed significantly since then, in order to achieve greater efficiency, effectiveness and protection of european producers. the commission has not found any evidence that the union industry has been able to recover from past dumping practices.
madam president, this is a review of procedure, not content. however, it should be noted that as of 1 january 2014, new rules are in force no overfishing is allowed in the european union. we also have new principles for sustainable fishing, namely reform of the fisheries policy, a ban on discarding of excess catches, but we want to simplify the rules and a new control regulation. i voted in favour of this proposal, but i have a little doubt about the extent to which parliament can exercise control over this regulation, but i understand that we had to bring the documents into line with the lisbon treaty, and we are doing that. however, as i said, this is a revision of procedure, not of substance, and we need to find a way to control effectively and to allow member states to set up their own control system and to conduct a regional fisheries policy.
madam president, i have supported the report by rapporteur thomas on the proposal for a regulation establishing a community control system to ensure compliance with the rules of the common fisheries policy. this is an aspect that is now in the process of alignment with the lisbon treaty and does not substantially change the control regulation in force since 2010. i think we have to take all the measures to make sure that the control regulation is consistently implemented and to make sure that that implementation is exactly the kind of implementation that across the european union we have the same results on the ground. i believe that all measures, including controls, must be proportionate to the fisheries to which they relate. the european commission has been given the right powers and i hope that its future acts will take into account and bear in mind the specificities of countries and regions and adapt appropriately to fisheries practices and ensure the sustainability of fisheries throughout the union. that is the key to sustainable fishing in our seas.
in writing. - mr thomas' report concerns a proposal for a regulation amending regulation no 122/2009 establishing a community control system to ensure compliance with the rules of the common fisheries policy. the lisbon treaty has brought about a new classification of competences between the european bodies. the boundary between implementing acts, delegated acts and co-decision may sometimes be vague and not well defined: the first is a technical act, the second leaves room for manoeuvre to the commission and finally codecision is the more political procedure. the alignment of powers must not, however, lead to a transfer of the co-decision powers of the european parliament, which, i recall, is the only european institution directly elected by the citizens and whose important role in the process of defining the rules must be preserved.
the commission has also decided to extend the period of validity of the new scheme to the period from 1 july 2013 to 31 december 2013. this amount represents the eu contribution while croatia has provided a share of eur 2,9 million, for a total of eur 11,6 million, for the implementation of the measures set out in the operational programme for fisheries. fishing is a traditional economic activity in coastal croatia and therefore the common fisheries policy is of particular importance to croatia. the implementation of the common fisheries policy rules is governed by a control system designed to ensure that only the allowable quantities of fish are caught, to collect the data needed to manage fishing opportunities, to clarify the roles of eu member states and the commission, to ensure that the rules are applied to all fishermen in a fair manner, with harmonised sanctions across the eu, and to ensure that fishery products can be traced back and checked throughout the supply chain, from net to table. the report sets out a set of principles which must be met and in the context of which parliament will exercise its scrutiny of the acts provided for in the revised regulation. i support this report and the proposal to delegate powers for a period of three years, after which the commission will have to report on the acts adopted during that period and assess their effectiveness in achieving the objectives of the regulation and the cfp.
written. - i support this proposal for a regulation establishing a control system for the common fisheries policy because it is the only way to make the common fisheries policy coherent, but i express my doubts about the division of powers and the possibility for parliament to take over the exercise of control. it is important to emphasise that the member states will be able to set up their own control system and allow regional fisheries policies to develop, and i am thinking primarily of the specificities of croatian fisheries, but no matter how sceptical i am about the role of parliament, the reform could remain a dead letter on paper if we do not establish a legal control instrument and that is why i am in favour of creating a legal framework and aligning the regulation with the lisbon treaty.
written. - i consider consumer protection and equality to be a very important segment of the eu's functioning. this is precisely the objective of the new legislative framework proposed in the directive on equipment and protective systems intended for use in potentially explosive atmospheres. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to apply the principle of equal treatment to the placing of products on the market. this proposal requires that instructions, safety notices and labels on products must be clear and understandable. procedures are simplified and modernised, i.e. administrative procedures are reduced. the free movement of goods on the european market is being improved. the ultimate aim is that every european consumer, whether in france, croatia, germany, romania or any other member state, can be sure that they are buying a safe and quality product. this increases citizens' confidence in the european single market.
in writing. - the european commission proposes amendments to the directive on equipment and protective systems intended for use in potentially explosive atmospheres. the new rules, which will apply to potentially explosive work environments or where there are sources of ignition, review the manufacturing processes and minimise the risks arising from the use of certain potentially dangerous products. in this way, by introducing a simplified regulatory framework for products, it allows for a more consistent implementation of technical standards.
written. - i support the inclusion of equipment and protective systems intended for use in potentially explosive atmospheres in a harmonisation package of nine eu directives. the design and manufacturing phases must be considered in order to ensure effective protection of users and third parties. the directive to which this report refers regulates potentially explosive atmospheres such as mines and introduces changes such as: clearly defining the obligations of economic institutions, ce marking of products to confirm compliance with the rules of the european market, and clear standards and procedures for placing products on the market. harmonised european standards are needed to facilitate the task of demonstrating compliance with the essential requirements, in particular with regard to standards relating to the design, manufacture and testing of equipment, and if they are complied with, the product can be considered to comply with those essential requirements and i therefore support this report.
written. - potentially explosive environments are not just fuel depots or chemical plants, but sometimes public places that we pass through on a daily basis, like gas stations. the market for protective equipment for such spaces is therefore important not only for the professions and professionals exposed to potentially explosive environments in industry but also for the many citizens who use cars for transport to their workplace on a daily basis. competition and the free movement of these goods is both necessary and a good thing, and i therefore welcome the contribution of this directive to improving the free movement of goods in the european union, and in that respect i welcome the directive itself. as with the other amendments to the directives in the harmonisation package, these address issues of ensuring market surveillance of our products and better consumer protection, essential prerequisites for a more competitive common market. one of the key items is the modernisation of the current procedures, which we intend to achieve by enabling the necessary documentation to be submitted to the competent european authorities in electronic form, which will significantly reduce the bureaucracy with regard to the identification of the manufacturer in the supply chain.
written. - i support the report by mrs roith, calling on the european parliament and the council to harmonise the legislation of the member states on equipment and protective systems intended for use in potentially explosive atmospheres. the directive is part of a package which aligns the harmonisation of member states' legislation for nine sectors or products with the so-called new legislative framework consisting of regulation (ec) no 765/2008 of the european parliament and of the council and decision no 768/2008/ec of the european parliament and of the council of 2008. in the accession negotiations, croatia has aligned its national legislation with that legislative framework in the field of equipment and protective systems for potentially explosive atmospheres. i believe that the report not only highlights the need to harmonise the legislation of the member states on safety and the use of equipment and protective systems intended for use in potentially explosive atmospheres, but also improves the application of the legislation of the european union in accordance with the lisbon treaty and increases mutual trust between consumers and product manufacturers.
written. - i have supported this proposal which is one of the 9 proposals of the harmonisation package as an important part of creating a single market of the european union in which the law of fair competition and safe products will govern. this report concerns the modifications to european commission proposal 94/9/ec related to equipment and protective systems intended for use in potentially explosive atmospheres. that directive contributes to the objective of harmonising the laws of the union and ensures the safe, free and improved movement of its products. it will also ensure that all industries benefit from simplified and equal rules. in the opinion of the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission, this proposal does not contain any substantive changes other than those indicated as such in the proposal and, as regards the codification of the unchanged provisions of the previous acts and of those amendments, the proposal is limited to the codification of existing acts without substantial changes to them.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this proposal. manufacturers must demonstrate that equipment and protective systems intended for use in potentially explosive atmospheres have been designed and manufactured in compliance with the essential requirements. experience has shown certain weaknesses and inconsistencies in the implementation and enforcement of legislation related to the quality of products, leading to the presence of non-compliant or dangerous products on the market and, consequently, a certain lack of trust in ce marking. i am in favour of this proposal because like all other products, ones with ce marks must ensure that they are properly labelled in order to guarantee eu consumers their right to accurate information. this is particularly important when it comes to equipment and protective systems intended for use in potentially explosive atmospheres, as great potential danger can arise from the use of such products.
written. - i consider consumer protection and equality to be a very important segment of the eu's functioning. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the directive and will continue to monitor the implementation of the directive. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to apply the principle of equal treatment to the placing of products on the market. this proposal requires that instructions, safety notices and labels on products must be clear and understandable. procedures are simplified and modernised, i.e. administrative procedures are reduced. the free movement of goods on the european market is being improved. the ultimate aim is that every european consumer, whether in france, croatia, germany, romania or any other member state, can be sure that they are buying a safe and quality product. this increases citizens' confidence in the european single market.
in writing. - some amendments were needed to the current directive setting out the essential safety requirements to be met by explosives for their placing on the eu market. the essential requirement is that each explosive is designed, manufactured and supplied in such a way as to minimise the risks to the safety of human life and to avoid damage to property and the environment. it is therefore necessary to identify the appropriate procedures that manufacturers must apply to demonstrate the conformity of their products before they are made available on the eu market.
written. - i fully accept the suggestions that a higher level of consistency is needed to avoid legal uncertainty regarding the availability and control of explosives for civilian use on the market. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 264 concerning the conditions for the placing on the market and the conditions for the use of the products referred to in this regulation. economic operators should be responsible for the compliance of explosives with this directive in order to ensure a high level of protection of public interests such as the health and safety of persons and public security and to guarantee fair competition on the union market. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the conditions for the authorisation of explosives for use in the manufacture of explosives. the directive establishes a clear and proportionate distribution of obligations corresponding to the roles of each economic operator in the supply and distribution chain. i consider that member states should take all appropriate measures to ensure that explosives can be placed on the market only if they do not endanger the health and safety of persons and if they are properly stored and used for their intended purpose, and i therefore support this report.
written. - in the republic of croatia, the ministry of the interior has been implementing the operational action "peace and well-being" since 1994. this action relates to the prevention of violence, violent behaviour and the misuse of pyrotechnic means, weapons and explosives for civilian purposes during a specific celebration. the estimated time of the holiday period is christmas and new year. the misuse of pyrotechnic and other explosive substances, and their use by minors and adults, most often results in a series of serious injuries due to improper use. in addition to fireworks, minors are very often exposed to explosive devices and firearms, although police actions reduce this number every year. the minister of police for the past new year's period has reduced the period of use and sale of pyrotechnics to the period from december 27 to january 1, however, he remains concerned about the availability of such funds on the market. i have supported this report because i believe that controls on sales and the controls on the persons involved should be strengthened so that the number of victims of such products can be significantly reduced.
written. - civilian applications of explosives and explosive substances are many. they are used for mining in engineering, shipbuilding, construction, mining, oil and gas extraction, geological exploration, automotive, automotive industry, agriculture, medicine, demining, film art and fireworks, and even in space technology. in view of the wide range of activities in which explosives form an important part of the civil sector, it is necessary to achieve the objective of this directive, namely to make the manufacturing industry of civil explosives as competitive as possible, as part of the harmonisation package. of course, whenever the use of explosives for civilian purposes is mentioned, it is worth recalling alfred nobel, the inventor of dynamite. it is a known fact that nobel, shocked by the way the world was using his patent, used the money he earned to establish a fund to reward those who have made the greatest contribution to humanity. as a citizen of the european union, and a nobel peace prize winner, i am particularly in favour of the aspect of market surveillance which will prevent the misuse of civilian explosives production, which is why i have expressed my support for the overall report in the first place.
written. - i support the report by mrs roith, which amends directive 93/15/eec, a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the making available on the market and supervision of explosives for civil uses. the directive is part of a package which aligns the harmonisation of member states' legislation for nine sectors or products with the so-called new legislative framework consisting of regulation (ec) no 765/2008 of the european parliament and of the council and decision no 768/2008/ec of the european parliament and of the council of 2008. in the accession negotiations, croatia has aligned its national legislation with the said legislative framework in the field of explosives for civil use. the commission should be able to assess the impact of the measures on the environment and the environment protection of the union's forests and ecosystems. the commission has also taken note of the fact that the report on the implementation of the directive on the protection of the health and safety of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work, published in the official journal of the european union, has been published in the official journal of the european union.
written. - as i come from croatia, which not so long ago had a war, i supported the report on the harmonisation of the legislation of the member states concerning the availability of explosives for civilian use on the market and their supervision because i am well aware of the need to control explosives, and in particular weapons left over from the civil war in croatia. although this report puts particular emphasis on reducing bureaucracy here i would say that we must also take special care about consumer protection more than when it comes to other products and more systematic monitoring of the entire market for explosive devices must be carried out to prevent the possibility of their misuse.
written. - i consider consumer protection and equality to be a very important segment of the eu's functioning. this is precisely the aim of the new legislative framework proposed in the non-automatic weighing directive. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to apply the principle of equal treatment to the placing of products on the market. this proposal requires that instructions, safety notices and labels on products must be clear and understandable. procedures are simplified and modernised, i.e. administrative procedures are reduced. the free movement of goods on the european market is being improved. the ultimate aim is that every european consumer, whether in france, croatia, germany, romania or any other member state, can be sure that they are buying a safe and quality product. this increases citizens' confidence in the european single market.
in writing. - the harmonization of the directive amends certain requirements for non-automatic weighing instruments. member states will have to take all the necessary measures to ensure that only instruments which meet all the essential requirements and bear the ce marking can be placed on the market. manufacturers will therefore have to apply and select the appropriate conformity assessment procedures to demonstrate the conformity of their products, in order to ensure free movement in the internal market and to protect consumers against the consequences of incorrect weighing results.
written. - i support this report which harmonises the laws of the eu member states with the existing european commission directive on non-automatic weighing instruments. the existing directive requires manufacturers to apply the prescribed procedures to ensure that their products meet the requirements of the european union and thus obtain authorisation to place them on the market. the inconsistent implementation of harmonisation in the member states makes it difficult for economic and other competent institutions to implement and interpret this legislation, which has the effect of creating unequal market conditions and the emergence of unsafe products on the market. the harmonisation is important in the case of non-automatic weighing instruments, given their wide range of applications: for the determination of mass for the calculation of tolls, customs duties, taxes, premiums, for the determination of mass for the application of laws or regulations, in medical practice for the purposes of monitoring, diagnosis and treatment, for the preparation of medicinal products on prescription in pharmacies and in many other applications.
written. - the denotative meaning of the word scale is clear - a scale is a measuring instrument used to determine the mass of a body by using the action of gravity on that body, and can also be used to determine other quantities, parameters and characteristics related to mass. but in a connotative sense, the scale usually represents balance, harmony, harmony. it is therefore interesting that this directive combines both these meanings - it is about regulating the market in scales as part of a package of harmonisation and approximation of legislation concerning that market at the level of the european union as a whole. the commission notes that the measures provided for in this decision are in accordance with the opinion of the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011. the competent authority for the supervision of this market, the national metrology office, is pleased with the new legislation which finally solves many practical problems encountered by metrological inspection on a daily basis, as well as frequent infringements that prevented the regular use of legal standards without being regulated as infringements at all. for this reason, i support the report as a whole, and in particular the amendments aimed at strengthening market surveillance.
written. - i support the report by mrs roithovae calling on the european parliament and the council to harmonise the legislation of the member states on non-automatic weighing instruments. this report amends the proposal for a european commission directive 2009/23/ec. the directive is part of a package which aligns the harmonisation of member states' legislation for nine sectors or products with the so-called new legislative framework consisting of regulation (ec) no 765/2008 of the european parliament and of the council and decision no 768/2008/ec of the european parliament and of the council of 2008. in the accession negotiations, croatia has aligned its national legislation with the said legislative framework in the field of non-automatic weighing instruments which require the participation of the operator during weighing in order to obtain and confirm the result of the weighing operation or the determination of the mass of the body being weighed. i believe that the report not only highlights the need to harmonise national legislation for the non-automatic weighing sector but also improves the application of european union legislation in line with the lisbon agreement and increases mutual trust between consumers and producers of products.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this proposal as it is important for ensuring free movement of non-automatic weighing instruments. it sets out essential requirements that non-automatic weighing instruments must comply with in order to be made available on the eu market. producers of non-automatic weighing instruments must prove that the instruments have been designed and manufactured in complete compliance with the necessary requirements. in the past, there were certain weaknesses regarding the quality of products, which led to the presence of dangerous products on the market. we must minimize or, if possible, eliminate products that do not meet all the necessary requirements. because of this, it is extremely important that all customers in the european union have accurate information about the quality of non-automatic weighing machines.
written. - i consider consumer protection and equality to be a very important segment of the eu's functioning. this is precisely the aim of the new legislative framework proposed in the electromagnetic compatibility directive. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to apply the principle of equal treatment to the placing of products on the market. this proposal requires that instructions, safety notices and labels on products must be clear and understandable. procedures are simplified and modernised, i.e. administrative procedures are reduced. the free movement of goods on the european market is being improved. the ultimate aim is that every european consumer, whether in france, croatia, germany, romania or any other member state, can be sure that they are buying a safe and quality product. this increases citizens' confidence in the european single market.
in writing. - a revision of the directive on the harmonization of the laws of the member states relating to electromagnetic compatibility has been carried out. the amendments we considered necessary concern the essential requirements to be met by appliances for their placing on the eu market, with particular attention to the unintentional generation, transmission and reception of electromagnetic energy. the new regulatory framework was adopted to address some of the shortcomings and improve the functioning of the single market, in order to ensure equal treatment of non-compliant products and equal assessment of notified bodies.
written. - i support the report on electromagnetic compatibility and the harmonisation of the legislation of the member states to ensure the protection and safety of consumers in the european market and equal and clear measures for all economic operators and competent authorities. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the conditions for the authorisation of the placing on the market of devices for use in the electricity supply and distribution sector. the commission directive on electromagnetic compatibility has been implemented in croatian legislation through the electromagnetic compatibility code which applies to a wide area of electrical and electronic equipment including appliances, systems and fixed installations. this ensures harmonised standards in the field of electromagnetic compatibility. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation.
written. - technological advances from ancient times help us to live more comfortably, carefree, and even longer and better. one of the most important such achievements in the last few centuries was certainly the invention of our brilliant scientist nikola tesla - alternating current. with his help, the first hydroelectric power station in europe was opened in the croatian town of šibenik almost 120 years ago. today, it is not unusual to have several electrical devices in every room, from household appliances to desktops and laptops to mobile devices and the like. since all these devices emit electromagnetic radiation, one device can interfere with another, or disable it completely. the electromagnetic compatibility of electrical equipment is therefore a key consideration in the design of electrical equipment. development and modernisation in this respect also depends on a legislative process that must keep pace with technology and science. i welcome the amendments to this directive aimed at enhancing competitiveness and safety and i particularly welcome the amendment to add the obligation to describe and explain the drawings, layouts and operation of the appliances concerned, which is a step forward in terms of consumer protection and facilitating supervision by competent authorities and professional staff.
written. - i support the report by mrs roith, calling on the european parliament and the council to harmonise the member states' legislation on electromagnetic compatibility. the directive is part of a package which aligns the harmonisation of member states' legislation for nine sectors or products with the so-called new legislative framework consisting of regulation (ec) no 765/2008 of the european parliament and of the council and decision no 768/2008/ec of the european parliament and of the council of 2008. in the accession negotiations, croatia has aligned its national legislation with that legislative framework in the field of electromagnetic compatibility, i.e. the ability of an appliance or system to operate correctly in its electromagnetic environment without introducing unacceptable electromagnetic disturbances into that environment. i believe that the report not only highlights the need to harmonise national legislation in the field of electromagnetic compatibility, but also improves the application of european union legislation in line with the lisbon treaty and increases mutual trust between consumers and product manufacturers.
written. - i supported the report by mrs roith because it is important to harmonise the laws of the member states and the criteria must be uniform in all the member states as regards the criteria on electromagnetic compatibility. this regulation will ensure consistent application of the law in the member states and the correct application and interpretation of the law by economic operators and institutions, which should ultimately lead to the elimination of unsafe products and unequal conditions on the market. simplifying the regulatory environment for products opens up the scope for a more consistent implementation of technical standards, which contributes significantly to the functionality of the common market, thus ensuring equal treatment of products with all non-compliant products and economic operators. it is commendable that products produced before the date of entry into force of this regulation have also been taken into account in such a way that these products are exempted from the new obligations, thus preserving valuable jobs in the eu. increasing consumer protection and reducing red tape will contribute to the free movement of goods within the eu, ensuring simpler and better supervision in the eu single market.
written. - i consider consumer protection and equality to be a very important segment of the eu's functioning. this is precisely the objective of the new legislative framework proposed in the directive on electrical equipment designed for use within certain voltage limits. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to apply the principle of equal treatment to the placing of products on the market. this proposal requires that instructions, safety notices and labels on products must be clear and understandable. procedures are simplified and modernised, i.e. administrative procedures are reduced. the free movement of goods on the european market is being improved. the ultimate aim is that every european consumer, whether in france, croatia, germany, romania or any other member state, can be sure that they are buying a safe and quality product. this increases citizens' confidence in the european single market.
in writing. - this report deals with the harmonization of the member states' legislation on electrical equipment designed to operate within certain voltage limits. the changes introduced will have a beneficial effect on both producers and consumers. the obligations of economic operators will be clarified and the member states' authorities will be given more effective tools to carry out surveillance checks, thereby reducing the presence of non-compliant and unsafe products on the market. all this is clearly to the benefit of the security of european citizens.
written. - i welcome the introduction of a simplified environmental regulator for electrical equipment for use within certain voltage limits which allows for more consistent implementation of technical standards. this will contribute to improving the functioning of the single market by ensuring equal treatment of non-compliant products and economic operators on the eu market with the aim of reducing non-compliant and unsafe products on the market. for all these reasons, i supported this report because it will ensure that croatia has better quality, legal regulation and services for electronic devices on the eu market.
written. - the electrical equipment industry is an example of a modern value-added industry that every developed economy must preserve and sustain. the trend towards financialization and the banking sector in recent decades can be partly explained by the decline in real production in industry, which is also a trend in croatia. fortunately, in certain areas such as the production of transformers, telecommunications devices and the like, this branch of industrial production in croatia is on the level of developed countries of the world. however, while electrical equipment is the foundation of our modern electronic society, it can also be dangerous or even deadly if its manufacturer does not comply with safety rules, and it is therefore of the utmost importance to conduct timely and effective surveillance of this market, especially in the interests of the safety and health of our citizens. therefore, in addition to improving the competitiveness and harmonisation of electrical equipment in the territory of the member states, this directive also pays particular attention to those aspects - control and protection of consumers, that is to say, end-users. with that in mind, i would commend amendment no 5, where parliament puts particular emphasis on the safety of children, the elderly and the disabled in those cases where electrical equipment is not intended for professional use.
written. - i support the report by mrs roithovae calling on the european parliament and the council to harmonise the legislation of the member states relating to electrical equipment intended for use within certain voltage limits. the directive is part of a package which aligns the harmonisation of member states' legislation for nine sectors or products with the so-called new legislative framework consisting of regulation (ec) no 765/2008 of the european parliament and of the council and decision no 768/2008/ec of the european parliament and of the council of 2008. in the accession negotiations, croatia has aligned its national legislation with the aforementioned legislative framework in the field of electrical equipment, i.e. the ability of the appliance or equipment to operate correctly within certain voltage limits. i consider that the report not only highlights the need to harmonise national legislation in the field of electrical equipment intended for use within certain voltage limits, but also improves the application of european union legislation in accordance with the lisbon agreement and increases mutual trust between consumers and producers of products.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this proposal as electrical equipment is designed for use within certain voltage limits and should ensure that quality requirements for this type of equipment are clearly defined. the most important are the safety objectives that electrical equipment must comply with in order to be made available on the eu market. ce marking should guarantee product quality and safe use of equipment, because safety is vital when we are talking about electrical equipment within high voltage limits. likewise, it is important to preserve trust in the ce mark and to emphasise quality as a number one priority when it comes to electrical equipment within certain voltage limits.
written. - i consider consumer protection and equality to be a very important segment of the eu's functioning. this is precisely the objective of the new legislative framework proposed in the directive on lifts and safety components for lifts. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to apply the principle of equal treatment to the placing of products on the market. this proposal requires that instructions, safety notices and labels on products must be clear and understandable. procedures are simplified and modernised, i.e. administrative procedures are reduced. the free movement of goods on the european market is being improved. the ultimate aim is that every european consumer, whether in france, croatia, germany, romania or any other member state, can be sure that they are buying a safe and quality product. this increases citizens' confidence in the european single market.
in writing. - the amendments to directive 95/16/ec seek to approximate the laws of the member states on the subject of lifts and safety components used. the aim is to ensure the highest levels of safety through regular and extraordinary testing, maintenance and verification procedures. the modernisation of current procedures also allows the provision of the eu declaration of conformity in not only paper format but also in electronic format, with a significant reduction in red tape making it easier for manufacturers to prove conformity to the essential requirements.
written. - i support this report because it argues that economic operators should be responsible for the conformity of lifts and safety components for lifts, in order to ensure a high level of protection of public interests, such as health and safety, and consumer protection. in order to protect the health and safety of users, it is also necessary for manufacturers to examine samples of safety components for lifts made available on the market. the manufacturer shall keep the technical documentation at the disposal of the national authorities for 10 years after the safety component has been placed on the market. i also support the intention to make elevators more accessible to people with disabilities, and to strictly enforce them with regard to the safety of children and the elderly.
written. - the new legislation of 2008 established a common legislative framework for the harmonisation of legislation with the aim of completing a single, secure and competitive market. the necessary changes concern the declaration of conformity, the ce marking and other standards. the commission should be able to assess the impact of the transposition of this directive on the market for lifts, in particular by taking into account the impact of the transposition of this directive on the market for lifts. in addition, i welcome the addition to the proposal that the availability of security papers in a language understood by the end user is very important, especially as the security aspect is important for strengthening the confidence of users and thus the competitiveness of this market.
written. - i support the report by mrs roith on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the making available on the market of lifts and safety components for lifts. the directive is part of a package which aligns the harmonisation of member states' legislation for nine sectors or products with the so-called new legislative framework consisting of regulation (ec) no 765/2008 of the european parliament and of the council and decision no 768/2008/ec of the european parliament and of the council of 2008. in the accession negotiations, croatia has aligned its national legislation with that legislative framework in the field of lifts and safety components for lifts. i believe that the report not only highlights the need to harmonise member states' legislation on lifts and safety components for lifts, but also improves the application of european union legislation in line with the lisbon agreement and increases mutual trust between consumers and manufacturers of lifts.
in writing. - it is essential that lifts and safety components for lifts comply with health and safety requirements in order to be made available on the eu market. manufacturers must demonstrate that a safety component for lifts has been designed and manufactured in compliance with the essential health and safety requirements that add on to the ce design. it is important to ensure that all steps are aligned in order to ensure that necessary bodies are notified and to ensure consistency of the overall regulatory environment for such products. croatian citizens, as a part of european union, share these common goals in which safety and confidence in the quality of products is essential. i voted in favour of this initiative which stresses the need to restore consumer confidence in the quality of products on the market and the importance of reinforcing market surveillance.
written. - i consider consumer protection and equality to be a very important segment of the eu's functioning. this is precisely the objective of the new legislative framework proposed in the simple pressure vessel directive. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to apply the principle of equal treatment to the placing of products on the market. this proposal requires that instructions, safety notices and labels on products must be clear and understandable. procedures are simplified and modernised, i.e. administrative procedures are reduced. the free movement of goods on the european market is being improved. the ultimate aim is that every european consumer, whether in france, croatia, germany, romania or any other member state, can be sure that they are buying a safe and quality product. this increases citizens' confidence in the european single market.
written. - i support the objective of this directive to harmonise the pressure vessel market and i believe that the republic of croatia will also benefit from this. the commission notes that the production of pressure vessels is an area of interest for croatia, since for many years we have had a competitive industry producing mobile and stable pressure vessels for propane, butane and other gases. in this respect, croatia has always adhered to european standards and practices, and i am confident that it will continue to do so. i would welcome amendment no 28 to extend the deadline for objections by a member state or the commission from two to three months after receiving information from the manufacturer of simple pressure vessels, as i believe that the possibility of better control of production is necessary to protect end users.
written. - i support the report by mrs roith, calling on the european parliament and the council to harmonise the legislation of the member states on mass-produced simple pressure vessels. the directive is part of a package which aligns the harmonisation of member states' legislation for nine sectors or products with the so-called new legislative framework consisting of regulation (ec) no 765/2008 of the european parliament and of the council and decision no 768/2008/ec of the european parliament and of the council of 2008. in the accession negotiations, croatia has aligned its national legislation with that legislative framework in the field of series-produced simple pressure vessels, i.e. welded vessels with an internal pressure of more than 0,5 bar, intended for air or nitrogen and which are non-combustible. i believe that the report not only highlights the need to harmonise national legislation in the field of simple pressure vessels, but also improves the application of european union legislation in line with the lisbon treaty and increases mutual trust between consumers and producers of products.
in writing. - it is essential that simple pressure vessels comply with safety requirements in order to be made available on the eu market. manufacturers must demonstrate that a simple pressure vessel has been designed and manufactured in compliance with the essential safety requirements and in line with ‘ce marking’. to ensure compliance and that necessary bodies are notified, as well as for the sake of consistency of the overall regulatory environment on products, it is important that all necessary factors are aligned. all eu citizens want to trust the quality of their products and through this initiative and the importance it puts on reinforcing market surveillance, we can restore consumer confidence in the quality of products on the market.
written. - i consider consumer protection and equality to be a very important segment of the eu's functioning. this is precisely the objective of the new legislative framework proposed in the measuring instruments directive. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to apply the principle of equal treatment to the placing of products on the market. this proposal requires that instructions, safety notices and labels on products must be clear and understandable. procedures are simplified and modernised, i.e. administrative procedures are reduced. the free movement of goods on the european market is being improved. the ultimate aim is that every european consumer, whether in france, croatia, germany, romania or any other member state, can be sure that they are buying a safe and quality product. this increases citizens' confidence in the european single market.
written. - the need for a new directive arises from the inconsistent implementation of the existing directive in the member states. the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the measures on the environment and the environment protection of natural resources, including the impact of the measures on the environment. i support this report and consider it necessary to adopt a common transitional solution allowing economic operators, within a reasonable period of time, to make available on the market and use measuring instruments that have already been placed on the market in accordance with the directive now in force.
written. - measurement is an important basis for establishing coherent standardisation systems, which in turn is the basis for a simpler market for goods, from private traders using their own scales on the market to determine the price depending on the weight of goods sold, to the conclusion of large industrial contracts involving several hundred tonnes of supply. the si system of measurement units is accepted in most parts of the world, but it depends to a large extent on correct measuring instruments that are properly calibrated and calibrated to a commonly agreed standard in accordance with the latest scientific and technical developments. that's why these laws are frequently changed to keep up with the latest security developments. the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the harmonisation of the laws of the member states relating to the making available on the market of measuring instruments addresses precisely this market aspect, with the aim of placing this market on an equal legal footing in all member states. i consider these amendments to be important not only because they remove unnecessary red tape from the already highly competitive market for measuring instruments in the european union, but also because they concern consumer protection in the european environment. for example, ensuring that the language in which instructions are provided and the safety aspects of measuring devices are understood by end-users is a commendable amendment.
written. - i support the report by mrs roith on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the harmonisation of the laws of the member states relating to the making available on the market of measuring instruments, which calls on the european parliament and the council to harmonise the laws of the member states relating to measuring instruments. this report amends the proposal for a european commission directive 2009/23/ec. the directive is part of a package which aligns the harmonisation of member states' legislation for nine sectors or products with the so-called new legislative framework consisting of regulation (ec) no 765/2008 of the european parliament and of the council and decision no 768/2008/ec of the european parliament and of the council of 2008. in the accession negotiations, croatia has aligned its national legislation with that legislative framework in the field of measuring instruments. in particular, the legislative framework lays down rules for the following measuring instruments: water meters, gas meters and volume converters, effective electricity meters, heat energy meters, measuring systems for continuous and dynamic measurement of the amount of liquids other than water, automatic weighing scales, taximeters, real measurements, dimensional meters and exhaust gas analysers. i believe that the report not only highlights the need to harmonise national legislation in the field of measuring instruments, but also improves the application of european union legislation in accordance with the lisbon treaty and increases mutual trust between consumers and product manufacturers.
written. - while the existing measures directive contains essential requirements and conformity assessment procedures, i welcome this report and the efforts to harmonise member states' legislation on the making available of measuring instruments on the single market. i believe that it is also necessary to introduce additional tools that contribute to simplifying the regulatory environment for products and to allow for a more consistent implementation of technical standards in the eu common market. we agree that inconsistent implementation in the member states, together with complex regulations, puts economic operators and institutions in an unenviable situation, leading to unequal market conditions and also to product safety in the market. those amendments regulate the obligations of economic operators, harmonise standards and other essential provisions contributing to the improvement of the quality of products and services in all member states. the single market is one of the synonyms for the eu, so this is an important step because establishing the same measurement rules across the eu means a boost in confidence for both producers and consumers. when we talk about measurement instruments, we must not forget the controls that member states must carry out, because only with effective tools and market controls can we reduce inequalities and eliminate products of questionable safety from the market.
written. - in the light of the intensive development of air transport and the increase in the number of passengers, and therefore all the irregularities associated with travel, it is necessary to regulate in detail all the compensation arising from travel contracts. clearly defined rules on the liability of air carriers for delays, lost baggage, and associated flights are important for the realisation of passenger rights. i therefore consider it extremely important that technical irregularities, unless they are the result of circumstances beyond the control of the passenger, should not be regarded as a reason for not paying compensation to the passenger. the clarity regarding the final calculation of the ticket must also be clearly defined so that passengers are not misled when purchasing tickets and estimating the price range. the commission notes that the airport services agreement concluded between ryanair and ams was signed on the same day as the agreement between ryanair and ams.
written. - air transport has become an important form of passenger transport in recent years, and the percentage of passengers travelling by air within the borders of the european union is increasing daily. the commission notes that the airport services agreement concluded between ryanair and ams was signed on the same day. that is why i support further regulation of air traffic. the biggest problem in air traffic regulation and passenger rights is currently the lack of information about passengers' rights, and the lack of clear regulation laws that benefit airlines. the concern is that airlines do not automatically recognise passenger rights that belong to them, so passengers have to claim their rights individually from large international companies. i believe that it is extremely important that the new regulation provides citizens with clarification of their rights and effective legal remedies to protect the strong implementation of the new code. in this respect, it is important to avoid any ambiguity in the regulation that could be used by airlines or consumers by establishing a clear and exhaustive but also balanced list of exceptional circumstances that will not put additional time pressure on the aircrew when starting the aircraft to justify non-payment of compensation.
written. - in view of the increasing number of air passengers and the difficulties they face in exercising their rights, it is necessary to adapt the existing legal framework in order to ensure a more effective application of air passenger rights throughout the european union. i believe that the proposal for a regulation does a good job of promoting the interests of air passengers in such a way that carriers must respect a high level of protection of passengers in the event of cancellation or long delay of departing flights, while also ensuring that the financial consequences for the air carrier sector do not jeopardise their activity. i supported the proposal for a regulation to help passengers obtain prompt and adequate compensation for damage suffered through no fault of their own.
written. - action at european union level is necessary to maintain the proper functioning of the internal market. entrepreneurs increasingly have cross-border activities that need to be regulated by eu legislation. council regulation no 1346/2000 on insolvency proceedings is based on the fact that, due to the wide disparities in substantive law, it is not possible to introduce insolvency proceedings with a uniform scope throughout the union. this also applies to the very different laws on pledge rights in the community. i consider that specific rules on the applicable law should be provided for in the case of particularly significant rights and legal relationships (e.g. rights in rem and employment contracts). the national proceedings (including only assets in the state of the proceedings) should also be allowed alongside the main insolvency proceedings with a single scope. in order to make insolvency proceedings with cross-border effects more effective, it is necessary to consolidate the provisions on jurisdiction, recognition and the law applicable in this field in a single community legal act. it should be binding and directly applicable in the member states. in conclusion, i would like to stress the good functioning of this regulation, even 10 years after its entry into force.
written. - the reporter did a quality job when it came to this report. such regulations are of great interest to business entities as they contribute to a clearer interpretation of bankruptcy proceedings when it comes to companies with ownership or debts located in more than one country. in bankruptcy proceedings, and in particular in pre-bankruptcy settlements, creditors are normally the ones who should be in a more favourable position. however, if in a composition procedure the debtor decides on the process independently, the creditors are placed at a very disadvantage. such a process is socially very dangerous because there are cases, as for example in croatia, where debtors themselves become the largest "creditor" and a situation is created in which settlement proceedings are decided not by creditors but by debtors. in the case of croatia, where pre-bankruptcy settlements are worth almost eur 6,38 billion, the epilogue takes on a broader scope when we understand that the settlement procedure is led by a settlement board appointed by the minister of finance, and it is the ministry of finance that is often one of the main creditors. i would like to say that the unification of bankruptcy proceedings is a good thing not only for businesses but also for member states and their citizens. in this way, we want to make it known that laws that are not in the interest of society, and this is clearly seen in the example of croatia, must be changed and brought into line with general norms at the union level.
written. - cross-border insolvency proceedings occur when the debtor's assets or liabilities are located in more than one country or if the debtor is subject to the jurisdiction of the courts in more than one country. i voted in favour of this report because its purpose is to improve the efficiency of the opening of insolvency proceedings for the resolution of cross-border cases and to ensure the smoother functioning of the internal market and stability in the context of the economic crisis.
written. - bankruptcy is a judicial procedure for the joint settlement of creditors, the liquidation of the bankruptcy debtor's assets and the distribution of the collected funds to creditors during which it is possible to implement a bankruptcy plan to maintain the bankruptcy debtor's activity, in times of economic crisis additional regulation of this area is of extreme importance. the bankruptcy code of the republic of croatia is also subject to the laws at the level of the european union. in the republic of croatia, according to the latest data from the financial agency, the initiation of pre-bankruptcy settlement has been requested by more than 5800 companies in total, of which 614 or 10,4% have settled so far, and almost 3500 companies have gone or will go bankrupt. of the over 5,800 cases filed, 82.6% have been resolved so far. parliament's observation in the report, namely that 'there are certain areas of bankruptcy law where harmonisation is both cost-effective and feasible'. it cannot be ignored that 'the lack of harmonisation between national insolvency laws creates competitive advantages or disadvantages and difficulties for companies with cross-border activities which could become obstacles to the successful restructuring of insolvent companies'. there are many arguments in favour of the reform process, the last but not least of which is the one on modernising eu bankruptcy law to shift the focus from the winding up of the company itself to providing second chances for businesses.
written. - given the existence of the possibility of cross-border insolvency proceedings, it is important to regulate at the level of the european union to address possible problems and conflicts in the case of cross-border insolvency proceedings. in the event of debtor's liability or bankruptcy in more than one member state, the bankruptcy laws in the eu member states today differ significantly and it is not possible to solve the problem in a simple way. we need to find a compromise in communication and coordination to establish a plan to deal with cases like this that would be simple to implement involving all member states. i welcome this resolution because i believe it will help to resolve bankruptcy cases in more than one member state and contribute to the rapid resolution of such proceedings, which will also help the courts both in croatia and in all other member states of the european union.
mr president, as we discuss ukraine, i cannot help but recall the events in my own country, when people took to the streets in the 1990s and waved croatian and european flags, and then came milosevic's aggression and unfortunately europe was not able to stop it. instead of strategy, they sent us all sorts of lords, who invited all sides to dialogue, while milosevic continued to prepare the war machine. so i am really afraid here of what yanukovych and his nomenklatura will do, what putin will do after the olympic games in sochi and whether we are ready to respond to this eventual situation of even more direct intervention of russia in ukraine. i support what my colleagues have said before about the preparation of sanctions, i support, of course, all the measures by which we will send a very clear message today that the citizens of ukraine will not...
written. the most famous mass protests of our time seem to be symbolically linked to the names of squares where mass discontent erupts into political revolt. tahrir, taksim and most recently the kiev maidan. today, therefore, processes are taking place on the eu's borders that are as important for the further development of the european idea as those taking place within the eu. ukraine, unfortunately, today has all the prerequisites to become a failed state. it will be enough to continue to tighten internal relations and for some new conflict between east and west. thirty years ago, the fate of a country in a conflict zone was decided not by democratic means and dialogue but by force. i hope those days are over. unfortunately, all those who point out that ukraine today is a dangerous and unpredictable place are right. i don't just see a division between the west and the east, but also a division between the haves and the have nots. in this, the government bears far greater responsibility than its opponents. recent events call for a thoughtful response to the question of how far russia and the eu can be partners in these areas and how far they remain rivals. i support the current efforts of eu officials to ensure that the ukrainian protagonists can find a peaceful and sustainable way out of the deep crisis their country is in.
madam president, relations with russia have indeed always been, and will remain, crucial to the security of europe. the very fact that the european union is russia's first trading partner, that russia is our third trading partner, indicates this, as do other areas, for example the fight against terrorism, or as was the case in south-eastern europe, where for the first time both russian troops and our european armed forces troops worked together under nato. however, moscow's behavior in the case of ukraine has also shown that russia is willing to strengthen its position to the detriment of european interests, but primarily to the detriment of the sovereignty of a country like ukraine to decide for itself which path to take. and that's why the solution is in a common european policy, not in dividing ourselves in our relations with moscow.
mr president, although it is late for such an important debate, i would like to remind my colleagues that we have a group of students in the gallery who have come from various parts of bosnia and herzegovina and thus show the interest of the younger generations in the european perspective of bosnia and herzegovina, so i welcome them. (applause) i'm going to go.
mr president, the enlargement of the european union should include all the balkan countries. it is a prerequisite for stable peace and further development of these countries towards genuine democracy and prosperity. the situation varies from country to country, but some of the problems to be solved are very similar. these include, first and foremost, the rule of law, good and efficient public administration and the protection of human rights, the fight against corruption and organised crime and the eradication of poverty, and the danger of a return to the glorious past and nationalism. obviously, and this is what the proposed resolutions tell us, things are changing the slowest in bosnia and herzegovina, where the functional state exists only in the hint. i'm convinced that it's not up to us to impose solutions on the country. the citizens of bosnia and herzegovina need to find those solutions. so far, the political elites, who are not in any sense, have shown neither the will nor the ability to find them, but still not... (the president interrupts the mp.)
mr president, first of all, i would like to congratulate montenegro on its progress on the path of european integration. at the same time, i regret that the name dispute still prevents macedonia from joining other countries in the negotiation process. however, i would like to comment in particular on the situation in bosnia and herzegovina, whose 1,000 km border with croatia has recently become the border with the european union. however, neighbourhood with the european union goes beyond mere border touching. this should be motivated, but it also implies obligations such as the regulation of trade relations with the aim of preserving traditional trade. unfortunately, after discussions with the leaders of bosnia and herzegovina's political parties, led by commissioner füle, the expected consensus on the necessary changes did not emerge. the country thus found itself at the forefront of the western balkan countries aspiring to eu membership. i regret that the status of bih remains unchanged as the country is already chronically blocked by the current internal political impasse which, among other things, prevents some constituent peoples from adequately electing their representatives.
mr president, while all the other countries of south-eastern europe have already acquired candidate status or are moving in that direction, bosnia and herzegovina is unfortunately stagnating, and the main reason for this stagnation is the political struggle between separatist and centralist forces that are reinforcing each other and pushing the country further and further away from europe. separatism and centralism are the main brakes of bosnia and herzegovina's european future. the european union is committed to the peaceful settlement of the conflict in bosnia and herzegovina. there are also still strong unitarian forces in bosnia and herzegovina that have clearly not learned the lesson from the bloody break-up of yugoslavia because sarajevo centralism is no better for bosnia and herzegovina than belgrade centralism was for the former yugoslavia. instead of these extreme positions of centralism and separatism, it is precisely the federal solutions emphasised in this resolution that open up a european perspective for bosnia and herzegovina. and that is the main message of this resolution and that should be the main orientation of the common european policy towards bih. i therefore congratulate rapporteur doris pack, i appreciate the efforts made by commissioner füle on behalf of the commission, now is also the time for the council to engage more, and the member states, to show the leadership of the european union as a force for peace in bosnia and herzegovina, in south-east europe... (the president interrupted the member.)
mr. president, as a supporter of the enlargement of the european union, i thank the commissioner, the minister and our rapporteurs. i am in favour of an engaged approach by the european union towards bosnia and herzegovina with an emphasis on its federalisation, which is the main message of our report and our resolution. the implementation of the sejdić-finci judgment must lead to constitutional reform that will also strengthen the rights of croats as a constituent people. i believe that the key to success, but also the responsibility of european policy, is to focus on the role of croats in bosnia and herzegovina, who only as an equal people can help the political cohesion and institutional functionality of the country and its economic development and accession to the european union. i welcome the progress made by montenegro in the accession negotiations, in particular the opening of chapters 23 and 24, but i also call on montenegro to resolve the issue of the succession of military assets of the former sfry and i call for the restitution of the croatian school military sailing ship jadran which has been used for civilian purposes. i appeal to the minister... (the president takes the floor.)
mr. president, i would like to support the report of the esteemed colleague pack and with particular emphasis on the 19th amendment which stresses the importance of the principle of federalism and legitimate representation. this approach is feasible, as evidenced by a recent statement by the slovak minister of foreign affairs and former european union special representative in bosnia and herzegovina, miroslav lajčák, who in that role was best acquainted with the real situation in that country. in a recent interview, he told sarajevo that the constitution adopted in 1995 as part of the peace agreement that ended the war in bosnia and herzegovina simply does not meet european standards today. commenting on the position of the croats, lajčák assessed that the croat people in bosnia and herzegovina are the most vulnerable and the smallest, and therefore feel very threatened and fight not to lose their status as a constituent people. i sincerely hope that this report will encourage them and give them new strength.
written. the republic of croatia is the newest member of the european union and its negotiating path, which has lasted for more than a decade, has set the framework for all further negotiations and possible enlargements of our community. in supporting the efforts of all the countries we are discussing tonight, i would like to stress in particular that the republic of croatia stands at their disposal in overcoming all obstacles and is ready to extend to them a hand of friendship, with whose help it will bring its negotiations to a successful conclusion as soon as possible. the government of the republic of croatia, the prime minister and other officials of the republic of croatia confirm my words with their actions, just as the president of the republic of croatia does tirelessly with his foreign policy activities. however, while welcoming the progress these countries have made so far, i also feel it is crucial to stress that the past experience of enlargement of the european union clearly demonstrates the importance of the future member states actually preparing for full membership through thorough negotiations, rather than simply serving as a 'simulator of democracy'. we cannot allow such a 'simulation of democracy'. we are clear that two things must be ensured before a new wave of enlargement: the internal consolidation of the european union and the rigorous preparation of the new member states, which will not undermine this internal consolidation, especially not in economic terms.
madam president, commissioner, i support the action plan to support inland waterway transport. the proposed measures are important and will contribute to improving the transport connectivity of the european union. however, there are a few shortcomings that we must try to overcome. first, the link between the action plan and strategies where waterways are the backbone of achieving objectives such as the danube strategy. secondly, a clearer budgetary link and identifying the sources of funding, what will be financed from the budget of the european union, what from the budget of the member states and why we can provide favourable sources of funding through the european investment bank, the ebrd and other sources. the commission notes that the measure is not intended to provide a guarantee to the beneficiary. we cannot fund different priorities and objectives across the union. in the republic of croatia, the importance of waterways is also recognised, we are preparing the danube sava, vukovar sisak osijek slavonski brod projects and we know that this is an important backbone for economic development.
it is true that at the end of the legislature there is not much time to analyse and grasp everything that should be done, but i agree with the content of the white paper, namely the naiades ii proposal, in terms of encouraging river transport. there is much that can be done on inland waterways, not just in raising the quality of waterways. in particular, we expect the european commission to draw up a plan to increase the possibilities of restoring one of the most efficient and historically practical transport systems, proven since ancient times. greater connectivity and navigation by rivers is very important especially in eastern croatia, for example, the capital zagreb was once navigated by the sava river and today should be re-established navigation to sisak and beyond. all the connections and communications that once existed, and are now abandoned or non-existent, need to be reestablished. for example, in istria, where i come from, there used to be a navigable river mirna, which should be re-established, at least for tourism purposes. the commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market if it is granted to a firm in difficulty.
mr president, passengers often fail to exercise their rights and it is our task to ensure that the law is applied uniformly throughout the european union. passengers have a right to clarity and information, and i hope that the situation with delays, damages and unwanted events that are costing the company will be resolved slowly. i'm glad that in this proposal we have a list of extraordinary circumstances and that we finally know what extraordinary circumstances are. in any event, the passenger should be compensated in the event of the company's insolvency. the right passengers should not depend on whether we have a connecting or a single flight and i believe this is a great help to croatian tourism because it is very dependent on air connections. so i'm glad we're on the verge of passing this resolution.
- ecology and renewable energy are areas where the european union is a model for all countries in the world. the commission's official figures show that most of the 2020 climate targets will be met, a major success for the union and its policies. yet, the eu spent €537 billion on fossil fuel imports in 2011 alone, and that figure is growing. the paradox of the simultaneous increase in the share of renewable energy and the dependence on fossil fuel imports shows that measures taken so far may not have been ambitious enough. the billions we spend on energy imports could have been put to much better use by investing in renewable energy research, modern infrastructure and energy efficiency. the price of energy from fossil fuels will only rise in the future, and that's why i'm advocating for setting the bar high when it comes to climate and environmental goals for 2030. today it may seem like a liability, but tomorrow it will pay off as an investment.
written. - i believe that with this proposal parliament is sending a clear message to the council, which should be discussing this issue in march. the disregard for the environmental consequences and climate change caused by industrial production is not in keeping with the times in which we live. i have just made a speech on the environment action plan 2020 in which i stressed that sustainable economic development and a green economy are of interest to all member states. my position remains the same on the 2030 framework for climate and energy and i support a compromise approach. i would like to highlight one important segment when it comes to the republic of croatia's contribution. the base year from which the percentage of co2 emissions reductions is calculated is 1990. in that period, the croatian economy was at a high-quality industrial level. the war that croatia experienced during the 1990s completely devastated our industry, destroyed large plants and, consequently, significantly reduced the impact on the environment. in view of this, i advise my colleagues in parliament and the commission to pay particular attention to such cases. the commission has also received comments from the united kingdom, the united kingdom and the united kingdom on the application of the scheme to the electricity sector.
written. - i voted for this report because i believe that climate protection is a political agenda for all progressive forces that think about future generations. not only is this the programme of the social democrats, but it should be the programme of all political groups. i welcome parliament's vision for a new framework for climate and energy policy in the first place, and i believe that binding energy targets should relate to energy efficiency, and i believe that we should strive to avoid energy import dependency and fossil fuel dependency. there is a huge potential in the use of renewable energy sources which will certainly create the right conditions for the creation of new jobs which are important for us in europe, which has always been the policy of the social democrats.
written. - the 2030 climate and energy policy framework will build on the significant progress already made in this area. it must draw lessons from the current framework and identify where improvements can be made. the worrying data showing that the eu is the largest importer of fossil fuels with an annual value of over eur 500 billion is a clear sign that changes in the union's energy strategy are needed. the objectives set by the 2020 strategy, which the commission expects to be exceeded, need to be revised and made more ambitious. the example of croatia clearly shows that the emphasis on renewable energy sources is paying off, given that the country has reduced its co2 emissions in recent years. the commission notes that the average annual energy consumption in the eu is around eur 10 billion, which is a significant increase compared to the average annual energy consumption in the eu. the changes proposed by the commission in the 2030 strategy should aim at reducing dependence on fossil fuels while further increasing the share of renewable energy sources, in order to preserve the environment and prevent further climate change. in addition to achieving this objective, the new strategy needs to be balanced in order to achieve an energy system that contributes to the competitiveness of the european union's economy, providing internationally competitive prices and affordable energy for final consumers.
written. - i supported the report by colleagues delvaux and szymański which should provide a framework for eu climate and energy policy up to 2030. the procedure for this case will be completed by the next european parliament, but it is crucial to send a political message of the european union's commitment to climate protection before the elections and to provide the framework for a final international agreement on greenhouse gas reductions in paris in 2015. the objective of a 40% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 is ambitious enough on the one hand, but realistic enough on the other hand, and takes into account the needs of economic development. after the last climate conference in warsaw in november last year, i organized a roundtable in croatia that brought together relevant experts and expanded the public debate. this year we are also joining the eu emissions trading system where we will be able to increase greenhouse gas emissions not covered by that system by 11% by 2020 compared to 2005. in order to ensure the achievement of the greenhouse gas emission reduction targets by 2020 and beyond, croatia is in the process of adopting a low-carbon development strategy by 2050. i support the report and believe that this will demonstrate the eu's commitment to reducing the impact of climate change and stimulate the development of low-carbon technologies and the creation of new jobs in clean and green industries.
written. - i did not support this report but it is important to europeanise european policy and establish an independent energy policy of the european union. we need to have binding targets and if we can't agree on all three targets then i'm prepared to make a compromise proposal that supports two targets, which are energy efficiency and renewable energy. i am aware that energy in europe is very expensive and that we have three times more expensive gas and twice as expensive electricity than the united states and that these unacceptably high prices are making european products uncompetitive, and i agree that we must direct our action towards a single market, encouraging renewable energy and reducing taxes on energy, which are enormously high in some member states. i am in favour of a european incentive system, one rather than 28 different systems. we also need to balance climate, energy and environmental policies. it also requires a 40% cut in greenhouse gas emissions by 2030, but also that greenhouse gas reduction alone cannot be the only goal and therefore we need to aim to have 30% renewable energy in production by 2030 and to bring energy efficiency up to 40%.
written. - madam president, there are three basic guidelines that i would like to support in particular in the report before us. first, the european environment agency recently found that the european union reduced its emissions by 18% between 1990 and 2012. as you know, that's very close to our goal of reducing emissions by 20% by 2020. it therefore seems to me quite logical that we should increase our target to at least 30%, in line with the opinion of the development committee. second, i think it's crucial to reconcile our climate and our development goals. this is what this report has done very well to recognise, particularly by highlighting the potential for new jobs. i believe that this potential can only be realised by coordinating our climate and energy policies in a timely and targeted manner with sustainable development, which we have emphasised in recent years as crucial. thirdly, i believe it is extremely important to better align our external energy policy because it has a strong impact on our internal market. in conclusion, i am pleased that we are showing the will to remain committed to good climate and energy policies, but i stress once again how important it is that we make the most of these good policies in economic terms as well.
mr president, i voted for mrs ferreira's motion and i will explain why. it is true that banks may at any time have the need to trigger a mechanism, which is not in the sphere of action of different powers but is an integral part of the banking union. the mechanism we are talking about today will be even more effective if the second stage of the banking union is applied under the greek presidency. i was happy to support final version 4 of elise ferreira's resolution on credit institutions, the mechanism that should provide security for the european banking and financial system in times of crisis. i would like to emphasize in particular the importance attached to this report by the honourable member elisa ferreira, who i hope will soon recover and be with us again in the econ committee and in plenary sessions. as regards the european banking and financial system, it is very important that mechanisms are put in place to make it even more efficient. the approach available to that end is this resolution.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. the current situation of bank resolution decisions being taken exclusively at national level and on the basis of non-harmonised legal frameworks distorts competition and ultimately undermines the internal market. as long as the rules on resolution, the practice and the approach to burden-sharing remain national and as long as the financial means to finance resolution are collected and spent at national level, the internal market will remain fragmented. i therefore consider that the establishment of a single european resolution mechanism proposed by the regulation is of key importance for creating a level playing field. i am convinced that the establishment of a single resolution mechanism will increase the stability of banks in the participating member states and prevent spillovers to non-participating member states, thereby facilitating the functioning of the internal market as a whole. the single resolution mechanism (srm), complemented by the single supervisory mechanism (ssm), through which the european central bank assumes ultimate responsibility for the supervision of all euro area banks, is a key step towards finalising the banking union.
in writing. - the current financial and economic crisis has shown that the functioning of the internal market has been under threat and that the risk of financial fragmentation is increasing. in order to boost the economic recovery in the union and restore consumer and market confidence, it is necessary to close the current gap between national and european policies and to improve the integration of the internal market for banking services. the strengthening of economic and monetary union is an indispensable step in european integration, with the essential aim of stabilizing and moralizing the internal economy.
written. - i support this resolution on the rescue of credit institutions and certain investment companies under the single rescue mechanism and the single bank rescue fund. the lack of supervisory and resolution mechanisms for banks and certain investment firms in some euro area member states has led to a worsening of the banking crisis. the establishment of the single resolution mechanism (srm) and the single resolution fund (srf) are the next essential steps in establishing the banking union and preserving the integrity of the single market. the single resolution mechanism will ensure the financial stability of the banking system and avoid bailing out the banking system with taxpayers' money, and protect savers. the resolution mechanism includes a single resolution fund, which will be financed by 6000 banks operating in the euro area and used in the event of a crisis. the establishment of a single resolution mechanism and a single resolution fund, in addition to the already existing single supervisory mechanism, will ensure the stability of the financial system and strengthen the single monetary union.
in writing. - the creation of a banking union is a decisive step in response to the economic crisis but it needs to be both unpretentious and adequate. we need constructive cooperation with the council in order to put in place efficient measures and funds that will foster economic stability and growth. in croatia, as in other countries with a small open economy, the crisis reduced capital inflows and made them more expensive, and it weakened exports. it is therefore important not to rush into potentially destructive would-be solutions, neglecting our responsibilities to our citizens and undermining their trust in us as their representatives. nevertheless, bearing in mind the urgency of the matter and the need for a quick solution, we must ensure that banks are operating on a safe legal basis, enabling them to shoulder their burdens themselves without putting unnecessary pressure on taxpayers or the economy.
written. - i support this proposal because it seeks to further protect the rights of consumers. i consider that the provision of accurate information on the country of origin of the meat, the place of birth, rearing and slaughter, and in particular the transparency and visibility of the same on the packaging of the products, is necessary in order to give consumers a concrete view of the products they consume. the various recent meat-related scandals we have witnessed highlight the need for regulations that will be ready to prevent similar incidents in the future. there are rules that apply to beef and i think that such rules are needed for other types of meat, including pork, sheep and goat, whether fresh, chilled or frozen. consumers are also concerned about the standards of animal husbandry and transportation for ethical reasons, but also for reasons of environmental protection, and it is precisely this information that could be made available to consumers through specific insight into the exact origin of the meat product.
in writing. - regulations have focused on country-of-origin or place-of-provenance labelling for fresh, chilled and frozen meat of swine, sheep, goats and poultry. i voted against this resolution because a balance must be struck between the consumer’s need to be informed and the additional cost to operators and national authorities, which ultimately has an impact on the retail price of products. consumers require, first and foremost, information on the place where the animal was bred. a marking system requires traceability norms at all levels of production and distribution of the meat, to ensure the link between the labelled meat and the animal or group of animals from which it was obtained. information with regard to food characteristics and especially country of origin should not be illusive. following several food scandals, consumers both need and want stricter rules on traceability and better information.
in writing. - the european union has ensured that developing countries enjoy trade advantages through the generalised scheme of tariff preferences (gsp scheme), which is part of its common commercial policy in accordance with the general provisions governing its external action. to provide legal certainty and stability under the new gsp scheme, it is necessary to upgrade the provisions on transparency and predictability. this act should establish rules on the procedures for temporary withdrawal and for adoption of general safeguard measures, in particular with respect to deadlines, rights of parties, confidentiality and review. one of the concerns is to improve developing countries’ access to the eu market by granting them preferential treatment for their exports. the provisions consist of a general arrangement and two special arrangements, including the special incentive arrangement for sustainable development and good governance (gsp+), charging no duties on imports of more than 6 000 tariff lines from beneficiary countries. the gsp is intended to work as a reliable motivation for countries which want to commit themselves to implementing core international conventions.
written. - the european greenhouse gas emissions trading scheme is an international scheme for greenhouse gas emissions trading within the eu. the european emissions trading system (eu ets) is a cornerstone of european policy to combat climate change and a key tool for reducing industrial greenhouse gas emissions. the eu ets is the first and largest international greenhouse gas emissions trading scheme, covering more than 10,000 power plants and industrial installations in 30 countries. the trading system itself is synchronised and regulated to the extent that it operates on the principle of limiting the permitted amount of greenhouse gas emissions, the so-called quotas, that may be emitted by the various installations covered by the directive e.g. factories, power plants, aircraft operators and the like. the third phase of trading from 2013 to 2020 is underway, and it should be noted that croatia became an integral part of this system on 1 january 2013, half a year before its accession to the european union. the republic of croatia shall apply a single eu-wide greenhouse gas emission allocation quota at this stage. by 2020, emissions are expected to be 21% lower than in 2005. such planned reduction of the number of allowances over time in a way that reduces the total amount of greenhouse gas emissions is certainly worth supporting
mr president, one of the important policies of the european union is the neighbourhood policy. it's a good relationship policy. europe is synonymous with the development of human values, synonymous with democracy. we must not leave the citizens of ukraine without hope. in december, we voted in this house for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a european neighbourhood instrument. it is defined as one of the instruments of direct support to the european union's external policies by providing increased support to partners committed to building democratic societies. the report also stresses the need for a differentiated approach. i support parliament's efforts in the negotiations and consider it important that he goes to kiev. we must not ignore the facts, i condemn any violence, we must also have in mind the welfare of the citizens. our duty is active presence.
written. - the protests that began more than two months ago as a result of president yanukovych's decision not to sign an association agreement with the eu, and which i witnessed, indicate the discontent and disappointment of ukrainians with their political government. i support the european aspirations of the ukrainian people and their desire to join european values. i condemn all forms of human rights violations and excessive violence. violent conflicts even lead to death and suffering, and those responsible must be punished. i also deplore the economic and diplomatic pressure from russia, and i call for the much needed political dialogue not only between the ukrainian authorities and the protesters, but also between russia, ukraine and the eu. i believe that further escalation of violence must be avoided at all costs and that the situation in ukraine must not turn into a catastrophic one like that which occurred in the early 1990s with the breakup of yugoslavia. i call for an end to the violence and for an immediate but peaceful solution to this unacceptable crisis, and for a number of reasons i support this resolution.
written. - as one of the sponsors of the european parliament resolution on the situation in ukraine, i supported the european union's position condemning the escalation of violence and the prevention of public gatherings. i share the view of the eu institutions and the member states to take further action to resolve the crisis in the country, to hold accountable those who led to the violent treatment and death of several protesters. i look forward to continued engagement by the eu and other international organisations and express my solidarity with the ukrainian people and support for their european aspirations.
written. - i supported the adoption of this resolution by the european parliament, especially after the repression of the ukrainian authorities against pro-european protesters. by voting in favour of this resolution, i wanted to express my solidarity with the ukrainian people and their right to sovereignty and self-determination in determining the relationship that ukraine wishes to establish with the european union. in advocating open dialogue between the eu and russia, i also believe that the european union must clearly and unequivocally oppose any attempt to limit ukraine's sovereignty or to create a zone of exclusive russian influence in the territory of the former soviet union.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution. in ukraine, peaceful protests turned into a general movement against the authorities. five people have died in the clashes and at least 2 000 have been injured. i condemn the use of force against peaceful demonstrations, and i want to express my full solidarity with the ukrainian people, as this situation is unacceptable. i express my condolences to the families of the victims and i call on the ukrainian authorities fully to respect civil rights and fundamental freedoms. unfortunately, little has been done for freedom of speech, and civil rights have been endangered. the people of ukraine should have the right to decide in which direction their country will move and develop. fair and democratic presidential elections should be held to represent their views.
written. - in accordance with the principles of the union and the un, two structures founded on the values of preserving peace and security and respecting human rights, the situation created by the conflict in syria indicates disastrous and unacceptable consequences. the dire humanitarian situation in syria and neighboring countries is facing catastrophic death and displacement, with 9.3 million people in need of aid inside syria alone, a 230% increase in just one year. the number of refugees also increased by 460 percent, to about 2.35 million in lebanon, jordan, turkey, iraq, egypt and north africa. i welcome the efforts made so far and encourage the efforts to be made in the future. the total amount of eu humanitarian aid now stands at over €1.6 billion, and i commend the fact that the eu is the largest donor in this crisis and the leading provider of humanitarian aid to syrians. the end of this situation lies in a political solution. i support the geneva ii peace conference as the first step in the effort to find a political solution to the conflict. however, despite the diplomatic success of organising a meeting between the two opposition parties, further efforts are needed as no firm agreements have been reached and as many as 1,870 syrians have lost their lives during the peace negotiations. the scheduled resumption of negotiations represents a hope for a settlement and for that reason i support it and this resolution.
written. - i sponsored the motion for a resolution of the european people's party and supported the joint resolution because i believe that europe should be united and determined when it comes to the situation in syria. against the background of all the points in the joint resolution which concern very important segments that need to be dealt with urgently (fulfilment of the ceasefire conditions, delivery of humanitarian aid, destruction of chemical weapons, release of the sakharov prize laureate and other political prisoners, release of imprisoned journalists and representatives of religious communities, etc.), i believe that it is necessary to insist on the continuation of the geneva negotiations in the sense of seeking a political solution to the syrian conflict. i believe that dialogue between the conflicting syrian parties, with the necessary assistance of the international community, should not be limited to defining the modalities of transition, but to addressing the question of the future of a state that should be free and democratic. at this point, and in view of the alarming figures of the un - more than 130,000 dead (mostly civilians) and 2.3 million refugees, and gross violations of human rights by all parties to the conflict, it was essential to emphasise that the priority task of the european union and the international community is to address the issue of civilians and the organisation of humanitarian aid.
written. - i supported the resolution on syria which strongly condemns the massive human rights violations by the assad regime as well as the terrorist attacks and destruction for which al-qaeda-linked organizations are responsible. the geneva talks must allow for a political solution that includes the removal of president assad from power and ensures a democratic transition process free of extremism. that is why it is of the utmost importance to insist on the departure of all foreign formations from syria, including hezbollah. with a view to reaching a political agreement in the geneva negotiations, it is also necessary that russia and china, as permanent members of the security council, fulfil their obligations and contribute to the cessation of hostilities and the stabilisation of syria. it is also important that european diplomacy, as part of the geneva negotiations, engages more strongly in the protection of the christian minority in syria.
written. - in syria, since the beginning of the conflict, more than 130,000 people have lost their lives, mostly civilians, and 4 million people have been displaced while over 2 million have fled the country. these facts are appalling, and i sympathize with the suffering of the syrian people. the violence in syria is on a steady rise and the situation requires an urgent response from all parties involved. i support the efforts of the european union and its member states to encourage further progress by the geneva peace conference and the security council in resolving these conflicts. i am particularly concerned about the humanitarian situation in syria. the latest information confirms that this is a grave massacre and that there are serious violations of basic human rights, that prisoners are systematically tortured and executed, that children and others are abused. croatia has recently experienced a difficult war and croatian citizens are aware of the horror and wounds that war brings. it is of the utmost importance that an appropriate political solution is reached and that all relevant parties are involved, as this is the only way to achieve peace.
written. - the support for the new constitution in the referendum by almost all citizens who attended the vote clearly testifies to the need for change in egypt. when interpreting the referendum results, it is necessary to note the unequal enthusiasm for the elections observed between the north and the south. i agree with the statements that this vote represents a convincing rejection of terrorism and a clear endorsement of the path to democracy as well as economic development and stability. however, there are disturbing indications of arrests of protesters, procedural violations during voting and general violence in the country. also, the political influence of military forces is a cause for concern. the unstable situation in egypt can only be improved by further convergence with democratic values, just as egypt's prosperous future can only be based on a democratic solution and appropriate democratic institutions aimed at protecting all citizens and minorities.
written. - in the context of the unrest in egypt, there are numerous attacks on christians. last year alone, 83 egyptians were killed simply for being christians, and nearly 500 attacks on coptic churches were recorded. the high representative of the european union for foreign affairs and security policy is expected to make a stronger commitment to protecting the rights of the christian minority in egypt, using diplomatic communication with the authorities in cairo and all other instruments at the eu's disposal. that is why i have supported this resolution, which also stresses the importance of a democratic transition after the adoption of the constitution by referendum. however, the further future of the state will depend on the application of key constitutional provisions, especially those related to the fundamental rights and freedoms of egyptian citizens.
written. - russia is the eu's largest neighbour and third largest trading partner. the eu-russia cooperation underway covers four important areas and the eu and russia are also cooperating on a number of challenges of bilateral and international importance, including climate change, the fight against drugs, trafficking in human beings, organised crime, the fight against terrorism, etc. for these reasons, the biannual eu-russia summit meetings are of particular importance and i would like to express my regret that the meeting in january 2014 took a shorter format as i believe that the topics discussed during the summit need more attention. i support this resolution as further deepening and developing the eu-russia relationship is necessary and in the interests of both parties. however, i express my concern about recent developments in our common neighbourhood and call for political dialogue and a peaceful solution to the current conflicts and problems. i also call for greater respect for and protection of human rights and respect for agreed democratic principles.
written. - as one of the sponsors of the european parliament resolution on the eu-russia summit, i believe that the summit meeting of 28 january 2014 was an opportunity to discuss the future direction of the strategic partnership between the eu and russia in the current global, political and economic circumstances. i believe that important progress has been made in all areas of cooperation over the past decade, with particular attention to be paid to energy security and the development of overall economic relations. i look forward to further progress in the implementation of the fundamental principles of democracy, the rule of law and human rights in russia as well as to the stimulating negotiations on the visa facilitation agreement. on the foreign policy front, i believe that there is a need to intensify dialogue on key international issues such as the situation in ukraine, syria, iran, as well as relations with georgia and moldova.
written. - the eu and russia are deeply linked through their historical, political, economic and cultural roots. strengthened cooperation and good neighbourly relations are important for both sides. i believe that we must achieve better cooperation in order to strengthen peace, international law, mutual trust and that we must put to the side the rivalries that were present in the past. strong economic and trade relations will help to increase trust, investment and trade, which will have a positive impact on the economies of the european union and the russian federation. it is of the utmost importance that the eu and russia engage actively in addressing key global challenges. i am concerned that the recent summit failed to set clear guidelines for achieving a strategic partnership. the eu and russia must engage in conflict resolution and peace building in syria and in resolving the situation in iran. croatian citizens understand the difficult situation in these countries because we are behind the civil war, so i have supported and will always support the joint efforts and partnership of the european union and russia for the purpose of peaceful resolution of the existing conflict.
written. - bosnia and herzegovina is a country full of potential. it's part of the european transport corridors. in addition to transport projects in bih, rich mines, the timber industry, the potential in renewable energy sources, potential oil and gas deposits, tourism, agriculture and food sales, the metal processing industry are waiting to be realized and participate in growth and development. there is a lot of technologically inadequate and neglected economic potential that, together with the natural resources and the position of bih, can be the backbone of development. there are many reforms ahead of bih. the republic of croatia has a long way to go from potential candidate to eu member, and its experience is a testament to that. reforms require political will and the joint work of all segments of society. partnership and openness are the foundations of successful reform, harmonisation and convergence. we are here as croatian representatives in the european parliament with bih, we will monitor and strongly support its path to the eu. the first important step is the realization of the constitutionality of the croatian people through partnership involvement in decision-making.
written. - while commending the rapporteur for her dedicated work, i would say that the general framework in which reforms could take place in bih during 2013 was generally favourable. one of bosnia and herzegovina's neighbours, the republic of croatia, became an eu member on 1 july, turning 1000km of common border with bosnia and herzegovina into an eu-bosnia border. and neighbourhood with the eu goes beyond mere border-touching; it can and should be stimulating, but it also implies obligations. i regret that the status of b-h has remained unchanged as expected as the country is now chronically blocked due to the current internal political stalemate. reforms in bih are necessary and political leaders should be challenged and invited to start working intensively but sincerely for the benefit of the european future of their fellow citizens. i hope that by the end of 2013 there will have been a period of passive world attitude towards the structural collapse of the only balkan state without an internal consensus on the eu perspective. and finally, the political agreement itself doesn't mean much unless there's a major shift in the relationship between politics and the business community to make the economy more competitive, free of the burden of corruption and confusing legislation. i also hope that 2014 will not be, due to the double election year in bih and the eu, a lost time but a confirmed opportunity for comprehensive change.
written. - i supported this proposal because one of the key points of the program of the croatian epp/hdz delegation in the european parliament is the relationship with bih and the help to establish the equality of all three constituent peoples, which we are consistently doing. as defenders of european values, we stand for the rights of minorities, and at the same time the constituent croatian people have no rights, and the resolution aims to help solve the problem of the dysfunction of the rule of law and respect for human rights in a fair way. the complex institutions resulting from appendix 4 of the dayton agreement have shown that inefficiency coupled with a lack of political will to compromise have a negative impact on progress towards the eu. bosnia and herzegovina stagnates while other countries in the region are granted candidate status. there is a problem of sarajevo being centralised in relation to other regions and investing heavily in infrastructure in the area. bih must not remain the unfinished story of the eu, the integration process must be completed in order to preserve the stability and security of this part of europe. bih must be integrated in all its diversity. i thank doris pack for recognising the problem and for the solutions that the resolution offers for bosnia to integrate sovereign and united into the eu, and i ask mr fülea to approach bosnia's progress with the same enthusiasm as he did on serbia-kosovo relations, bearing in mind that almost 1000 km of the border between croatia and bosnia is the eu border.
mr president, i voted in favour of the 2013 progress report on the former yugoslav republic of macedonia in the hope that it would encourage the citizens of that country and give them a new perspective on the path of european integration. i particularly welcome the invitation to the council to finally adopt the commission's recommendations for the transition to the second phase of the implementation of the stabilisation and association agreement and to finally open negotiations. macedonia was granted candidate status ten years ago and has not moved much in that direction. the negative consequences of this situation are also felt in that country, and i therefore welcome this report and the efforts of this house to finally put this country on its european path.
written. - i welcome this report and express my regret that the european council has decided for the fifth year in a row not to open accession negotiations with macedonia. unfortunately, the biggest victims of the long-standing dispute and the inflexibility of its actors are the citizens of macedonia, but also the stability of that part of the region. benefits, other than short-term political, there are absolutely none. macedonia deserves to be in the negotiation process by almost all indicators, but it should be emphasized that the political culture and media freedom in the country have been declining in recent years. furthermore, there is a rise in nationalism which also does not contribute to a positive perception of macedonia in the eu. croatia has been on a very long and at times extremely frustrating path to full eu membership. in the light of our own experience, we can confidently say that some of the negative phenomena mentioned above are at least partly rooted in the unfair treatment of macedonia by some eu member states. i call on macedonia and the member states bordering it to come to the table, to stop thinking short-term and to act european.
the republic of macedonia has made a number of positive steps on its path towards eu membership. it has implemented the first phase of the stabilisation and association agreement, which includes freedom of movement of workers, establishment, provision of services, and has continued further political and economic dialogue on the basis of this agreement. the implementation of the enlargement strategy has been supported through the ipa and a strategy is being prepared for the period 2014-2020 which will provide a coherent framework for financial assistance through ipa ii. the main economic objective is to promote growth and employment, and the results are visible in the second half of 2013, when gdp grew by 3,9% compared to the previous year, mainly due to the increase in investment. the action plan on youth employment for 2012-2015 was adopted, but long-term unemployment remains a major problem, especially as funds allocated to active labour market programmes are insufficient and the main employer remains the public sector. macedonia is showing maturity in implementing reforms and is fully prepared for negotiations with the european union and deserves candidate status. i call on the european commission, the member states, and in particular greece, to support, by opening negotiations, macedonia's further efforts on the path towards eu membership.
written. - i supported this resolution because any further delay in the date for the opening of accession negotiations could lead to growing discontent within the country on the one hand, and could jeopardise the credibility of the european union enlargement process on the other. what i would certainly like to stress as the representative of the newest member state of the european union is that further reforms in the areas of the judiciary and the electoral system are necessary, as well as strengthening civil society, media freedom and raising awareness of anti-discrimination policies and tolerance. i support the emphasis on the importance of open and intensive dialogue as a way of tackling sensitive issues, such as the name of the country, which is the true foundation of the european union.
written. - recognition of the rapporteur for the work and effort to harmonize a complex document based on different approaches to the subject. it is particularly regrettable that the opening of negotiations with macedonia has been delayed again, despite the recommendations of both the european parliament and the european commission. however, encouraging news of convergence of opposing views indicates the possibility of resolving the dispute that has unjustifiably kept skopje on the side of the negotiating process for so long, undermining the effects of reforms that are being or should be implemented. this, of course, does not mean that we should ignore the problems that require the dedicated commitment of the authorities in skopje, from the fight against the abuse of administrative resources, to suspicions of judicial bias and widespread corruption. political parties, especially those in power, need to be more transparent. it is also important to consider the political relationship with the media and to guarantee their freedom in practice, not just in declaration in documents. in addition, attention should be directed to opportunities in local self-government which is an important constitutional right in every democratic country that citizens must freely consume. however, report after report, macedonia is making progress in overcoming obstacles, its citizens are pro-european and these facts should finally be integrated into a strong political recognition by the eu and its institutions.
written. - i supported the resolution on the progress report of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia and i consider that positive progress has been made. i believe that the opening of accession negotiations should be encouraged, following the repeated and multiannual proposals of the commission. the current greek presidency of the council, which in 2003 was able to support the further enlargement process (the submission of croatia's membership application in athens in february 2003 and the thessaloniki summit in june of the same year), should be used to address the outstanding issues.
written. - by adopting this resolution during the greek presidency of the union, the european parliament has sent a very clear message of support for the opening of accession negotiations with macedonia. the name issue currently blocking consensus in the council by a member state must be resolved bilaterally, not through accession negotiations. the resolution also mentions areas where macedonia is expected to continue reforms, but the main message is that accession negotiations need to be opened in order to implement these reforms in a high-quality and effective manner. the only provision of this resolution with which i disagree (and which i voted against in the foreign affairs committee) is article 50, which criticizes the adoption of the new macedonian law on abortion. i do not think that the european parliament has the power to adopt such a qualification which is not in line with the principle of subsidiarity.
written. - i support this proposal as the former yugoslav republic of macedonia fulfils the political criteria for eu membership. the opening of negotiations is a positive step towards resolving the current disputes with neighbours and creates the conditions for the situation in the country to improve, at every level - political, economic and social. of course, we need to tackle issues like media freedom, more specifically, the influence of politics on the media, corruption. i also hereby encourage greece to show good faith during its presidency in resolving the name dispute and thus assist macedonia in the accession negotiations, as it helped croatia eleven years ago.
written. - on the path of stability and democratization, we place great hope and give full support to montenegro which has opened negotiations with the european union and is approaching nato membership. since regaining its independence, montenegro has made great strides in the democratisation of society, the rule of law and the implementation of the european legal acquis as the main path on which it is located. i therefore stress that it is in the common interest to continue negotiations and to endeavour to conclude them in montenegro in accordance with democratic principles. the government and parliament of montenegro are making great efforts to equalize the diversity of society in montenegro, which can serve as an example for all other countries that want to achieve stability and conditions for the start of negotiations for accession to the european union. for all these reasons, i voted in favour of this report.
written. - first of all, i congratulate montenegro on its progress towards european integration. the continuation of the negotiations will depend primarily on progress in areas such as the rule of law, the independence of the judiciary, media freedom, and a more effective fight against crime and corruption, and this will be the most important yardstick for assessing progress in the negotiations. it is also important to shed light on the recent past of attacks on the media and journalists, because if left unreported and the perpetrators and their clients unpunished, they could be the cause of the slowdown in european integration. some structures in transition countries, including montenegro, feel threatened by the wave of democratization of society. european standards certainly threaten their material and political positions, and they resist it, among other things, through attacks on the media. the dynamics of european integration will not depend on montenegro alone, as enlargement is not currently a priority for the eu, and the focus is on economic consolidation, the recovery from the financial crisis and the upcoming european elections. however, montenegro should be given full support and optimism about its reception, especially if the eu finally emerges from the financial crisis. in this case, there will certainly be no problem in admitting montenegro to membership perhaps as early as the end of this decade as a country with a small territory and a large population, but which certainly represents added value to the european project.
written. - i supported the resolution following the report of my colleague tannock and following the report of the european commission on the progress of montenegro in the accession negotiations. i welcome the opening of five new chapters at the intergovernmental conference in december 2013. following the experience of the negotiation process between the eu and croatia, there have been methodological modifications to the negotiation dynamics. in this context, i consider that the opening of chapters 23 and 24 is a very important step for the further course of negotiations and the undertaking of reforms in the field of justice, fundamental rights and the fight against corruption in montenegro. i would also like to stress the need to resolve the issue of the succession of military assets of the former sfry. i am in favour of the restitution of the school military sailing ship "jadran" which was used for civilian purposes in croatia and is located in montenegro.
written. - the accession negotiation process is an opportunity for a profound transformation and europeanisation of society. montenegro has decided to meet the demanding criteria for full membership of the european union this time, which will also aim to lay the foundations for a new architecture of peace and long-term stability in south-eastern europe. it is therefore important that chapters 23 and 24 were opened at the very beginning of this process, in line with the european commission's new approach to enlargement. through this most demanding chapter, throughout the entire negotiation process, montenegro will implement a profound reform of the judiciary. the rule of law is a key prerequisite for economic growth, but also for further democratisation and social development, which includes confronting the totalitarian past and condemning any radicalism. in this context, montenegro is expected to develop good neighbourly relations with croatia as a member state of the european union, and particular emphasis must be placed on the protection of the croatian minority in boka kotorska.
written. - i welcome the progress report on montenegro and the efforts made in the accession negotiations with the eu. the continuation of reforms is essential, with a particular focus on the rule of law, the fight against corruption and organised crime as a key to the continuation of the european path of this country. as a new member of the european union, croatia has gone through a long process to become a member and what i can point out to montenegro is that the reforms are not being done for the sake of joining the european union but for montenegro to become a better country for its citizens. croatia and montenegro still have certain outstanding issues such as land and maritime border disputes, and i am confident that we will reach a solution to the problem in the spirit of good neighbourly relations as soon as possible.
written. - it is estimated that 125 million women worldwide and about half a million in the eu have been subject to female genital mutilation. unicef estimates that 30 million women and girls are likely to be subjected to this procedure over the next decade. the procedure involves a variety of tools, such as razors, knives, and glass, and is usually performed without anesthesia or disinfectants. in addition to the pain, these women are more likely to suffer long-term complications, such as genital infections, blood poisoning, and psychological effects, such as depression, personality disorders, and behavioral problems. in some eu countries, health centres have been set up to provide specialist care for victims of genital mutilation. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on migration and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on migration and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on migration and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on migration and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on migration and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on migration and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on migration and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on migration and asylum. it's equally important to empower women and give them the opportunity to make informed decisions for themselves and their daughters. the numbers tell us the magnitude of the problem. it is our human duty to protect young women and girls from such cruel practices.
written. - in discussing such a sensitive topic, i would first like to commend the great work of make every woman count (mewc) which in its four years of existence has done a lot to improve the lives of women and girls in africa. this organization has helped the world hear the stories of the terrible fates of many young girls in places like tanzania, who were subjected to this horrific procedure at the age of just nine. the girls who manage to escape and go to school are often left behind to help others, and the possibility that the help of the european union and our support in parliament could save just one girl is worth continuing the fight. it is shocking to know that 100 to 140 million women worldwide have been subjected to these practices, and that many fellow eu citizens from countries where such practices are common have already been exposed to such a crime. in addition to legally sanctioning the perpetrators of these heinous acts and helping those who continue to fight against these practices, additional investment in education is needed to reduce and eliminate these practices. members of communities where such practices are acceptable under the pretext of tradition need to be provided with education through scholarships, given the chance to make a difference in their communities, and supported and encouraged through multilateral relations to punish severely the perpetrators of these crimes.
in writing. - i voted in favour of eliminating female genital mutilation (fgm) as i believe it is an intolerable form of violence. it involves the partial or total removal of external genital organs, for cultural or other non-therapeutic reasons. fgm is a form of gender-based violence which breaches fundamental rights to life, liberty and security. according to the resolution, tabled by several political groups, more than 180 000 girls in the eu are at risk of fgm. unfortunately, there are no reliable data available on the practice; however, the eu organises large-scale community discussion sessions, as well as community and district-wide public declarations on the issue, in order to increase awareness. i support the commission’s request that the european institute for gender equality should develop a methodology to help improve estimates of the number of women and girls affected by fgm in the eu. fortunately for croatia, the working group for the development of an action plan on violence against women 2007-2010 concluded that fgm is not a problem for croatia, where it is rare for women to request shelter as the result of incidents of genital mutilation. nevertheless, a law was passed prescribing sanctions for genital mutilation and other forms of violence against women.
written. - transport by river and canal is also an energy efficient way of transporting goods. it plays a key role in the transport of goods from european busy seaports to their final destination. however, the potential of this mode of transport is not fully exploited. in general, the naiades ii inland waterway development programme is not badly conceived, but the commission should have been more specific in its measures and more generous in its resources. the 'greening' of the river fleet, however, has gone a step too far. a riverboat uses about 15 times less fuel than a truck and about 3 times less than a train. additional emission reductions and the inevitable associated costs for shipowners are not necessary at this point. what they need is funding for river infrastructure projects from european funds like the cef. this is particularly true of the danube waterways in the countries downstream from austria, where the recovery of seafarers from the crisis is slower than, for example, in the rhine.
written. - the purpose of naiades ii is to create the conditions for inland waterway transport to become a quality mode of transport. this is a very important document for the republic of croatia if we take into account that croatia is a country with above-average river water surface area per capita the ten longest rivers in croatia are in total more than 2 000 kilometres long. the quality of waterways is continuously improved in croatia. i would mention just one example the croris project through which croatia has built a multitude of river information services (ris) over the past 10 years, in accordance with european directives and standards, and the main objective of this project was to ensure safe, efficient and environmentally friendly transport on croatia's inland waterways. the project ensured that today 100% of the croatian part of the danube and the commercial part of the drava are covered by the ais signal. the quality of waterways needs to be improved further, which is why i support this resolution. the commission should also be able to use the existing infrastructure to support the development of the inland waterway sector.
in writing. - the european union’s inland waterways network spans 20 member states. the inland waterway transport sector is relatively small but, with its 140 billion tonne/kilometres, it nonetheless makes a considerable contribution to the eu transport system. inland waterways play a vital role in bringing goods to the eu’s crowded ports. the aim of the naiades ii package is to create the conditions for inland navigation transport to become more efficient and sustainable. the package includes an action programme for the years ahead, focusing on aspects including quality infrastructure, quality through innovation, the smooth functioning of the market, a skilled workforce and quality jobs. in order to further inclusive long-term growth, the commission has suggested component changes in the inland waterway transport sector, concentrating on improving operating conditions and infrastructure and on innovation. a strong and reliable strategy for the inland waterway sector is essential, encouraging the development of more inland waterways and supporting specific measures set out in the naiades ii package.
madam president, i would disagree that this is not a climate policy debate but an industrial policy debate. there is talk of both because this proposal is good for consumers and producers, but also for the environment. it should be borne in mind that co2 emissions from other sectors have decreased significantly recently, and that road transport is one of the few that still has an increase in emissions and between 1990 and 2008 they increased by as much as 26%. so it is welcome that this is a reduction by 2020, but it is also welcome that the commission has not stopped at this. i thank commissioner hedegaard for the plan to reduce emissions by another 20% from 2020 to 2030, which i think is very good. it should also be taken into account that 13,000 people in europe work in the automotive industry and this is still a compromise proposal. so i want to thank mr. ulmer and all the people who have worked so hard for two years on this project.
madam president, i support the report by mr ulmer on how to achieve the co2 emissions reduction target for new passenger cars by 2020. this sets clear standards for the production of new vehicles and also stimulates the development of technologies and eco-innovations that are crucial to maintaining the competitiveness of the economy. road transport today accounts for one fifth of total co2 emissions in the european union, and unlike other sectors where emissions are falling, in transport they have increased by 23[nbsp ]% from 1990 to 2010. the measures provided for in the 2009 regulation and the introduction of carbon dioxide emissions into the motor vehicle taxation system have led to the emergence of lower-emission passenger vehicles and increased consumer awareness. the report submitted clearly confirms the objective and the measures to achieve it by 2020, when we want to have new vehicles on the market with co2 emissions of up to 95 grams per kilometre. from all of the above, i want to say that in croatia with the new tax, the special tax on motor vehicles, the cheapest vehicles are economic and environmentally friendly and therefore i believe that this report will contribute to both the economy and environmental goals.
the commission has also proposed that the commission should propose a new regulation on the use of the european union's greenhouse gas emissions trading system (eu ets) for the purposes of the eu ets. the proposed targets of 130 grams of co2 per kilometre by 2015 and 92 grams per kilometre by 2020 are in any case achievable. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market. consumers will have lower fuel costs, the environment will be protected by reducing carbon dioxide emissions, and the european union will reduce its dependence on imported fossil fuels. the commission will also continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the environment and climate change, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on climate change. in a global market where fossil fuels are becoming less available, the european automotive industry has the opportunity to position itself as a leader in the production of fuel efficient cars and we should therefore support this report.
madam president, the main function of a trademark is to guarantee to consumers or end-users the origin of the product, but also to protect the producer. i hope that there will be a political agreement in this house because the area of trademark protection is vital for the competitiveness of our products, but on the other hand, it is a very complex and technical issue. many jobs depend on it and this area needs to be approached with a strong will but also with an objective and realistic attitude in order to make things right and not to the detriment of honest and responsible brand manufacturers, as well as consumers who spend their money and have to get what they paid for: the product they wanted and which is safe for their health. i am in favour of improving the process of trademark protection itself in order to improve the registration system and the possible refusal of trademark registration. it is necessary to allow third parties to make written submissions to the central offices of the member states setting out the grounds for refusal of registration.
mr. president, organized crime, illegal activity, is responsible for 3.6% of the global economy, of global gdp. however, only 1[nbsp ]% of these assets obtained through criminal acts are confiscated or seized. and that is why i support rapporteur macovei and this directive that we are voting on tomorrow, which also creates minimum standards within the european union for the freezing and confiscation of property derived from criminal offences, which of course also goes towards extending those measures for the confiscation of property that it is not confiscated only in those cases that are currently in court but if the defendant cannot prove the origin of the property, that all that property can also be subject to those measures. so, organized crime needs to strike where it hurts the most - precisely the asset acquired through illegal activities.
mr. president, as a representative from croatia, where many politicians have openly abused their official position to gain material benefits, creating enormous financial damage to the state and taxpayers, i absolutely support this initiative. i consider the introduction of the extended withdrawal institution for assets transferred to third parties to be particularly significant, as it prevents manipulation of the system. i also support the motion in the part that regulates the management of confiscated assets, because i believe that we have a duty to redirect confiscated funds to community benefit projects and thus return the money to the community that has been most harmed by criminal activity. on the other hand, i am concerned about the possibility of confiscation of property without a court judgment, as such an institution could be subject to abuse in member states where the rule of law is not yet fully established. we must be very careful that this institute does not become a favorite tool in the confrontation of the ruling elites and their close structures with political dissidents or business competitors.
mr. president, as we have seen some states already confiscate funds without specific criminal conviction, have this mechanism, in some others on property for which the origin cannot be proven is taxed. the problem really is proving it. the tax office determines the difference between the assets and the income that a person had, and then what can they do? it can freeze and, in a specific procedure, confiscate or tax such assets, as is the case in croatia, and in this way best and fastest legalize such assets. it would be different if a taxpayer in such a situation, whose assets were greater than his income, were forced to prove the origin of those assets. it is certainly necessary to establish a single european system for determining the legality of assets, a procedure for freezing suspects and severe penalties for offenders, as well as for the confiscation of such assets. the key is that crime doesn't pay.
on behalf of the ecr club. mr president, i support this proposal for a regulation in principle, as it gives europol new responsibilities. in particular, in terms of training and upgrading police officers and confirming its important role in coordination between member states and in support of cross-border operations and investigations. i am pleased that parliament and the council are showing political maturity in advocating the establishment of quality oversight of this agency. but as a former longtime police officer, i have to say that i'm already a little allergic to the very mention of politics affecting the work of the police and related agencies. there will always be politicians who do not value the effectiveness of such agencies and who are inclined to use their power to manipulate their work for their own material or political gain. i therefore believe that parliament should otherwise use the legitimacy it derives from democratic elections and appoint independent experts alongside a special body to oversee europol's activities.
mr. president, as a representative from a country where youth unemployment is at a staggering 52%, i cannot support a proposal that opens our labor market to new waves of immigration while young europeans lose all prospects. i believe that the union should not close the door to the scientific potential that lies in the rest of the world and that can enrich our academic community, but i also believe that there must be a balance between attracting world knowledge to the eu on the one hand and economic realities on the other. while croats as citizens of the european union do not have the right to work in all member states, this directive seeks to give that right to third-country nationals who have come to the european union for entirely different reasons, to receive education and to pursue their scientific training. i am afraid that this policy is being pursued without understanding the situation in many member states and therefore i believe that it would be best if member states themselves took care of the accessibility of their educational and social systems and national labour markets to third country nationals.
mr. president, i support this debate. the recent referendum in switzerland showed that mobility is a hot topic in the european union, but if the union is to remain competitive, it must develop exchange programmes that include third-country nationals. whether it is research, study, regular student exchange, training, volunteering or work for food and housing for the purpose of learning a language, i believe that the adoption of this directive will contribute to reducing exploitation and undeclared work, but also to reducing abuses of social rights. this directive would promote the european union as an attractive place for research and innovation, thereby improving the union's position and increasing overall competitiveness and growth while creating new jobs that are crucial for the growth of gross domestic product.
mr president, i support this directive because i believe that the european union needs a package of measures to provide additional guidance for its immigration policy, especially in relation to third-country nationals coming for research, study, paid and unpaid training, student exchanges or similar activities. this directive should apply, for example, in conjunction with the directive on the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purpose of seasonal employment. this would ensure equal and fair treatment for all third-country nationals. third-country nationals who can contribute to the european union with their skills and knowledge should be given the opportunity to do so. in this way, they can also, after returning, strive to contribute to the progress of their home countries and the development of their economies. at a time when the european union is facing structural challenges of a demographic and economic nature, with a shrinking workforce and a lack of innovation, we must not allow europe to become a fortress in any sense; impenetrable to the exploration, creativity and human flows that bring them about.
mr president, more than 200 000 students and scientists from so-called non-eu third countries come to the european union every year to train. in the context of the economic crisis, the european union must remain globally attractive to talented students, doctoral students and scientists from third countries, who must be allowed unhindered access in order to retain the european union's development capital. at present, each member state of the european union has its own visa requirements. this report calls for a uniform practice, the same simplified permit and visa procedures and additional possibilities in terms of longer stays after studies, work-study and the like. research, innovation and knowledge are the comparative advantages of the european union as a community of states vis-à-vis other global actors. we must support this report because quality education through the exchange of ideas and a multicultural approach is a key prerequisite for economic success.
mr president, i think that today's debate has also shown how sensitive the issue of migration is, the issue of the image of the european union that we want to project on a global scale. i believe that our political project europe was an open project that gave everyone on our continent a chance to gain experience, develop, educate, be entrepreneurial and, through best practices, become globally competitive. the message we send with this report, prepared by ms wikström, to those from third countries who do not have all the privileges of the european project, and we give them a chance, if they are students, if they are scientists, if they are those who want to take advantage of a short stay in the european union to acquire new knowledge that they can not only apply in our member states, but take it as an added value to their own countries - i believe that we are giving them a chance that is essentially the embodiment of the main principle that created the european union, which is the principle of solidarity. that's why i'm supporting this report.
madam president, we have seen in recent incidents around the world that when disasters occur, aid must be delivered quickly and efficiently to meet the basic needs of victims in their most difficult moments. the union's contribution to the financing of the european solidarity corps is estimated at eur 5000000000 for the period 2014-2020. as we know, the union is the world's largest donor of humanitarian aid. it provides almost 50% of global humanitarian aid, and the treaty of lisbon provides for the creation of a european voluntary humanitarian aid board. as we have heard, 88% of eu citizens think it is important for the union to finance humanitarian aid, despite the current economic crisis. in both cases, support for humanitarian aid is more than two-thirds in all member states. in croatia, 466 organised volunteering actions existed in 2012, and the number of volunteers was 19 422. so there's a lot of volunteerism in croatia.
madam president, i consider the establishment of the european voluntary humanitarian aid corps to be a very good thing for the european union, and in this regard i welcome the efforts made in this direction by the commissioner in the past four years.
mr president, i welcome the report by mrs striffler and this initiative to create a european voluntary humanitarian aid body. this, of course, also confirms the european union's leadership in humanitarian aid, in development aid. i am sure that the almost 20 000 registered volunteers in croatia will also welcome this measure and i am convinced that it will also contribute to strengthening a european dimension, if you will, in the construction of that european identity which is marked by the european union having a leading position in humanitarian aid in the world. there is a difference between those of us who believe in the european project and the populists on the other side - they wanted to close the borders in the last debate to those young people who are highly qualified and who would help the competitiveness of the european economy, and who obviously don't mind carrying the european flag, so that they can help others to help and thus confirm that the european union is a force for good in the world.
madam president, i would like to draw your attention to something we all know very well and ignore. the privatisation of public and state assets in countries in transition and those acceding to the european union regularly results in crime and tragedy. croatia, serbia, bosnia, romania, bulgaria, and i could go on and on. the market may be a self-regulating mechanism, and i don't believe that, but it's definitely not in countries that are politically unstable or don't have a long-standing democratic tradition. yet in all the resolutions we have passed in this house, rapid privatization is demanded of the countries in negotiations, as if they don't have enough problems without it. let's just stop for a second. let's think about it. let's see what happened. there may be better solutions. this is not america after all, and i sincerely hope it never will be.
mr. president, extreme cold temperatures, ice and snow in early february caused millions of dollars in damage in the gorky quarry. the scale of the disaster is best illustrated by the fact that the entire power grid, family farms, and forests have been destroyed. so it's going to take decades to rebuild. but the agony is just beginning, as snowmelt and heavy rains have caused flooding and property damage totaling hundreds of millions of dollars, and a state of emergency has been declared in these areas. the water levels of croatian rivers are still extremely high, the army and firefighters are still on the ground to prevent further destruction of private property and evacuate the population if necessary, and there are fears of the emergence of infectious diseases. and as we sit here, at this very moment, thousands of houses in croatia are flooding, and the sleepless population is defending their homes with their own forces, and tonight i therefore expect a prompt reaction and financial assistance from the european union through the government of the republic of croatia, not only to repair the damage, but also to prevent it by building dams and drainage systems to avoid unwanted consequences in the future.
mr president, the croatian language is one of the official languages of the european union and enjoys the same status as all the other official languages of this community. at least on paper. the proposal for a decision to extend rule 147 of the rules of procedure until the end of the eighth convocation contains a paragraph (f) according to which parliament will not be able to ensure full coverage of the croatian language from the beginning of the eighth convocation. as far as i know, it is not only the parliament that has problems with croatian, but also the european agencies whose websites are not translated into croatian in most cases. even if we ignore the unequal position in which my croatian colleagues and i find ourselves, the serious consequence of this attitude towards the croatian language is the exclusion of croatian citizens, who have much more difficulty than others in accessing information about the work of the union's institutions. i hereby ask the parliament, the commission and the european agencies to take seriously the croatian citizens and their needs and to ensure, despite the challenges and technical difficulties, the technical coverage of the european institutions in croatian as soon as possible.
mr president, i want to draw attention to a problem that will be understood by all who come from maritime countries, a place where fishing is first a way of life, and then an activity. the commission has also decided to extend the scope of the derogation to the following areas: it will be a new form of fishing, but also an economic activity. the commission has also proposed that the fishing authorisations be extended to vessels flying the flag of a member state. in addition to breaking centuries-old traditions, such provisions may further fuel an already advanced process of depopulation of the island, endangering the identity and existence of the islanders. the commission considers that the measures provided for in this decision are in accordance with the opinion of the advisory committee on fisheries, as a representative who was born on an island and grew up by the sea, aware of the importance and difficulty of island life, i would therefore like to call on the representatives of the institutions and on you, my colleagues, to adapt european legislation in order to preserve the unique cultural heritage of small fishermen. this would really confirm europe as one in its diversity.
mr president, i personally find it astonishing that the european union, which is at the forefront of human rights protection in the world, has no strategy to combat violence against women. it is shameful that in a society where nearly one in four women has suffered physical violence at least once in her adult life, and one in ten has been subjected to sexual violence with the use of force, there is no single and effective system for their protection. the cost of this omission cannot even be expressed in numbers because there is neither clear data nor methodology at the level of the european union. we know that about 1.8% of gdp in the european union is spent annually on administrative, hospital and other costs arising from violence against women, but far more important is the fact that psychological and physical trauma and pain cannot be measured by any numbers. ladies and gentlemen, we have a duty to protect the more than half of the european union's population that we represent and to remind the commission to do this long overdue task.
mr. president, as a woman and a former police officer, i have a particular interest in solving this problem and i give my open support to the fight against violence against women. i support the resolution in that it calls for preventive measures, above all awareness raising. i believe that such information and education campaigns should be an integral part of the education system and the public sphere in general in the european union. but given that i have worked with women victims of violence during my police career and know firsthand how difficult the road to effectiveness in this fight is, i'm not sure that the accumulation of regulations and supervisory bodies at union level will help us too much. the fight against violence against women is being fought in every street, at the level of every city quarter or village, among the people, not in the halls of brussels. we must reduce this fight to the lowest possible level and act in accordance with local specificities, where the member states' competences are clearly above those of the european union.
mr president, from a croatian perspective, some of the proposed guidelines make a very good impression. fiscal consolidation, structural reforms and a growth model that is not based on the accumulation of excessive debt should be the priority of any responsible government. i also welcome the call for simplification of tax systems. i believe that fiscal consolidation should not be reduced to an additional tax burden, but should involve responsible and courageous moves on the expenditure side of the budget. however, the vision of labour market regulation does not look so good. labour mobility, especially of young people, is not a long-term solution because it leads to the concentration of the best-qualified workers in the rich member states while the poorer ones are doomed to economic and demographic collapse. the mention of the brain drain problem, which has already emerged in the member states most affected by the crisis, nevertheless raises hopes that we will see the devastating consequences of openly promoting and encouraging mobility before they destroy half of the european continent.
mr. president, the success or failure of the union's economic policy... [president interrupted]... is precisely the lack of perspective. the policy of cutting, the policy of austerity, it hits where it hurts the most, it hits the standard of living of the workers, the health, the education and the like. there is no progress in poverty. solidarity and greater unity are key to the success of european policies. europe is not just the rich north, the prosperous germany or the social sweden. europe is also 26 million unemployed, growing poverty in the south and growing social disparities. clearly, a new and different social agreement is needed on the direction of development of european society as a whole. this system is not only immoral, it doesn't work.
written. - i supported the request to waive the parliamentary immunity of tadeusz cymański. it's a traffic violation and a fine that mr. cymanski has already agreed to pay, but the polish authorities can't charge him unless his parliamentary immunity is revoked. given that the alleged offence has no apparent connection with mr cymanski's work in the european parliament, there is no need for the immunity to be activated.
in writing. - i agree with request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of mr tadeusz cymański. mr cymański was recorded by a traffic enforcement camera while travelling at 86[nbsp ]km/h in a 50[nbsp ]km/h zone. he agreed to accept the fine. according to article[nbsp ]8 of the protocol on the privileges and immunities of the european union, members of the european parliament shall not be subject to any form of inquiry, detention or legal proceedings in respect of opinions expressed by them in the performance of their duties. but this offence does not have a direct or obvious connection with tadeusz cymański’s performance of his duties as a member of the european parliament. therefore, i support this request for the parliamentary immunity of mr cymański to be waived.
written. - i supported this motion, given that the criminal proceedings initiated against tadeusz cymański are in no way connected with his position as a member of the european parliament, and given that in this case parliament has found no evidence of fumus persecutionis, i.e. a sufficiently serious and concrete suspicion that the proceedings were initiated in order to cause political damage to the member concerned.
written. - the eu's fishing industry is the second largest in the world, supplying some 7.3 million tonnes of fish a year, while the fisheries and fish processing industries employ more than 400,000 people. when it comes to croatia, fishing is traditionally the most important activity of the croatian coast and islands, characterized by a long history and a whole series of exceptional achievements. the eu's accession to the eu has challenged croatian fishermen to adapt to the demanding eu regulations and thus to face additional costs. i therefore understand the situation of the member states receiving financial assistance and i approve of mrs neves' report. the increase of the co-financing rate by 10% will not be of any use unless the deadline for the successful implementation of the operational programmes of the european fisheries fund and the adjustment programmes of the member states planned for the period 2007-2013 is extended as a matter of urgency. the extension of the deadline will allow continuity of projects and investments in the fisheries sector. i consider this decision necessary if we are to achieve the priority of eu fisheries policy, which is to strike a balance between ensuring a competitive fishing industry on the one hand and sustainable fish stocks and a sustainable marine ecosystem on the other.
written. - the continuation of the co-financing programme for fisheries projects at an increased rate of 10% shows the european union's strong commitment to supporting member states receiving financial support alongside appropriate macroeconomic adjustment programmes. this proposal is the only option allowing for the continuity of projects and investments in the fisheries sector. the proposed measures contribute to simplification and accelerated financing, by stimulating projects and investments in the fisheries sector. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council. the existence of the european fisheries fund relieves the budgets of member states in need of financial assistance. the republic of croatia has at its disposal from the fund approximately eur 30 million for co-financing, to which is added at least 25% of national resources. the commission has also concluded that the aid granted to the outermost islands of croatia, namely mljet, vis, lastovo and dugi otok, is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of article 107 (3) (c) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. i support the report because i believe it is of great importance for promoting economic growth and creating new jobs in many of europe's regions that are predominantly dependent on fisheries.
written. - due to the impact of the financial crisis, certain member states are going through macroeconomic programmes in agreement with the european commission to recover the economy. these programmes affect countries' liquidity problems and investors' investments in the private and public sectors. there is an urgent need to act to ensure conditions that facilitate the management of european funds, including mechanisms to assist recipient countries. i welcome this proposal because helping member states in the eu leads to economic development in the euro area countries and thus to employment growth throughout the european union.
the financial crisis and the economic recession have affected financial stability and economic growth in the european union as a whole since 2009 with varying intensities. of the seven member states (cyprus, greece, hungary, ireland, latvia, portugal and romania) which are part of the adjustment programmes agreed with the commission, financial assistance is currently also being provided to cyprus, greece, ireland and portugal. i agree with the commission that the aim of amending the regulation is not only to help member states currently receiving financial assistance (financial assistance initially covered seven member states; four are still beneficiaries), but also to help member states that may be affected by similar problems in the future, by enabling and securing sufficient funds for the implementation of fisheries policy projects. it is for this reason that i support the commission's proposal to amend article 77a of regulation (ec) no 1198/2006 so that its application is not limited to the current year but that the commission is able to continue to compensate newly declared expenditure by applying a 10%[nbsp ] increase compared to and above the co-financing rate of the priority axis of the 2007-2013 operational programmes.
written. - the prolonged global financial and economic crisis has seriously damaged economic development and financial stability and caused a serious deterioration in financial and economic conditions in several member states. in order to facilitate the management of union funds, to support accelerated investment in member states and regions, while improving the availability of financial resources to the economy, regulation (ec) no 1198/2006 has been amended. the amendment of the regulation has enabled member states most affected by the crisis and which have contracted a macroeconomic adjustment programme with the commission to request an increase in the co-financing rate of the interim payments and final disbursements from the european fisheries fund. the proposal fully complies with the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality and in this respect ensuring the smooth use of the european fisheries fund is of particular importance for investments in the fisheries sector. this also ensures the continuity of projects and investments in the fisheries sector. i therefore support the rapporteur's report.
written. - i supported the commission's proposal to extend the period of increased payments to member states facing financial difficulties which had agreed to a macroeconomic adjustment programme in agreement with the commission. the commission will continue to support the implementation of the cfp and the cfp-related programmes and projects in member states in difficult economic situations. in times of crisis, it is important to ensure the smooth implementation of the cohesion policy programme in all member states, in order to increase investment in fisheries and create new jobs.
written. - i support this amendment to the ordinance. the global financial crisis and recession have seriously damaged europe's economy, economic growth and financial stability. there has been a significant deterioration in the financial and economic situation of some member states. some member states, such as croatia, have many economic and financial problems, such as a large deficit, falling gdp or high levels of youth unemployment. croatia has one of the highest youth unemployment rates in the european union (over 50%) and it is precisely because of this that i organized a conference on youth unemployment in january to help young people and identify what can be done to reduce this devastating fact. while i agree that some measures have already been taken to offset the negative effects of the crisis, we need to further mitigate the impact of the financial crisis on the real economy and to help member states with the european agricultural fund for rural development (eafrd). i come from croatia, which has a registered unemployment rate of 21.6%, or more than 383,000 people unemployed, and i want to stress that we must do everything in our power to stimulate economic trends and mitigate these frightening trends.
written. - the prolonged global financial and economic crisis has seriously damaged economic development and financial stability and caused a sharp deterioration in financial, economic and social conditions in the member states. in particular, certain member states are experiencing serious difficulties or are threatened with extinction. those member states are subject to severe budgetary constraints which cause a liquidity problem that slows down the implementation of operational programmes. the commission proposal aims to help member states to have the necessary resources for fisheries policy projects to be implemented in operational programmes. while important actions have already been taken to offset the negative effects of the crisis, including changes to the legislative framework, the impact of the financial crisis on the real economy, the labour market and citizens has only now become apparent. pressure on national financial resources is increasing and further steps need to be taken urgently. i therefore supported the commission's proposal, which is consistent with the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality and represents an option that can maintain the continuity of projects and investments in the fisheries sector.
written. - financial instability is something common to most member states and those that want to become one. many finance ministers will say that the excessive deficit procedure is not a punishment for their member states, but the fact is that it is a punishment, and it proves that governments are not able to control their finances themselves. the purpose of this procedure is to reduce the budget deficit below 3% and the public debt below 60%, as required by the maastricht criteria, but this is not an easy task and it turns out that the countries themselves are not ready to make some cuts and so they pass this decision on to brussels. the fact is that countries don't have the political will to make a decisive change because there's always an election coming up and they're afraid that the citizens might punish them and so they turn the ball over to the european commission to make painful cuts to the poorest part of the population because they can't think of any other way to reduce the public debt, while those who have caused the high debt continue to enjoy political life.
written. - i welcome the report by mr sejer on the adaptation of articles 290 and 291 of the treaty of lisbon to a series of legal acts providing for the application of the regulatory procedure with scrutiny. firstly, as a member of the european parliament's constitution committee, i believe that any initiative to streamline and establish clear rules on the application of the articles in question leads to the achievement of a legal standard and the principle of legal certainty. i therefore believe, and i recall that it is precisely the interpretation of these articles that is often the cause of misunderstanding both among the european institutions and among legal experts, that the relevant institutions have a responsibility towards citizens to follow the trend of adapting the rules to the concrete circumstances and needs of the time. i would also like to point out that the very definition of the concept of implementing and implementing acts leads to the absurdity that defining them requires enormous effort and ultimately does not provide citizens with unambiguous and objective information about what the procedure under these two articles actually means.
written. - the first version of the treaty on the functioning of the european union the treaty of rome laid the foundations for further cooperation between european countries and thus began the long journey towards the european union we have today. the main objectives were also others: to ensure peace in europe, cooperation, the common market... during that time, the european union has grown from a customs union for coal and steel trade into one of the largest democratic entities in the world, with directly elected representatives protecting the interests of citizens in the european parliament. today, this project has shown its strength and durability in more than half a century of growth and improved functioning, especially in terms of transparency and democracy. and now, as we speak of the adaptation of this most important treaty, we must be very careful, because we are part of that history. in particular, in amending article 291, i believe that the european parliament should be involved in the legislative process because the history of the european union is the history of strengthening the democratically elected parliament and strengthening its rights and responsibilities.
- written. i support these legal acts. the overall objective of the commission was that by the end of the 7th parliamentary term, all provisions referring to the regulatory procedure with scrutiny should be removed from all legislative instruments. the commission put forward three proposals for a regulation adapting to article 290 tfeu a number of legal acts providing for the use of the regulatory procedure with scrutiny. in this proposal, the commission has analysed more than 30 legislative acts containing rps measures and has come to the conclusion that some of those measures do not fall within the scope of article 290 tfeu. in cases where the commission has considered that those measures fulfil the criteria of article 291 tfeu, it has proposed that the commission be empowered to adopt implementing acts (annex ii). in other cases, the commission proposes to delete those provisions (annex iii). the rapporteur and the specialised committees do not agree with those conclusions. the committee on legal affairs adopted, initiative report which proposes inter alia a set of criteria for application of articles 290 and 291 tfeu.
written. - this report represents an adaptation of the post-lisbon changes to the regulatory procedure for supervision, which was replaced by the commission's right to delegate and implement legislative acts. as the european court of justice is still awaiting a ruling on the difference between delegated and implementing acts, i believe that legal certainty and consistency should always take precedence over political considerations and i therefore voted against the report.
written. - i support this report but also point out several indisputable facts relating to the problem of the implementation of the article in question of the treaty of lisbon. for the sake of legal perfection and the use of legally relevant terminology, it should be borne in mind that the name of the new comitology is actually a remnant of the old name from the pre-lisbon period, to put it mildly. the changes brought about by the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon have been in the direction of conferring powers on the union bodies in terms of delegated and implementing acts respectively. i consider this topic to be worthy of attention because it is precisely this distinction between delegated and implementing acts that has remained undefined in the treaty. the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the new rules on the basis of the information provided by the member states. it should be noted that it is precisely the vague nature of the 'new comitology' that leads to a loss of time in negotiations, so that the legislative procedure is sometimes prolonged precisely because of this issue, and not necessarily because of the content of the negotiations.
written. - 15 years ago, in 1999, with the decision on comitology, the european union took another big step in the field of strengthening the transparency and democratic nature of its functioning. the european parliament was given the right to control the implementation of certain adopted legislative acts, and in 2006 this decision was extended and a new system was introduced a regulatory procedure with scrutiny. in adopting the new set of regulations on comitology, the commission undertook to assess how many of the legislative provisions relating to this procedure remain in force, and the very acts the commission proposes are generalised in application and aim to supplement certain non-essential parts of the legislation. in line with the already agreed direction of legislative initiatives related to the new legal framework, i support these five legislative acts aimed at regulatory harmonisation.
in writing. - i support adaptation of these legal acts. the commission issued the statement regarding acts in force which currently contain references to the regulatory procedure with scrutiny. the commission will review the provisions attached to this procedure in each instrument it intends to modify, in order to adapt them in due course according to the criteria laid down in the treaty. in addition, parliament and the council will be entitled to signal basic acts they consider it important to adapt as a matter of priority. in keeping with that statement and further to the announced screening of existing legislation, the commission put forward three proposals for a regulation adapting to article[nbsp ]290 tfeu. the conference of committee chairs confirmed its approach vis-à-vis the new alignment proposals and agreed on the modalities for cooperation between the committee on legal affairs and the other committees involved.
written. - the treaty of lisbon distinguishes between the power of the european commission to adopt non-legislative acts of general application supplementing certain non-essential segments of a legislative act, as provided for in article 290 tfeu in the delegation procedure. the european parliament protects the interests of citizens throughout the european union and has the duty to represent each of them. i take this opportunity to express my concern that many of the people with whom we deal on a daily basis believe that the treaty of lisbon, which was supposed to simplify the complex procedures of the union, has done the opposite and complicated them. however, what i am pointing out is that it is precisely the vagueness of the article in question, as well as article 291, that is causing confusion among citizens. so we all have to make a big effort together to make the processes understandable to the citizens. i welcome and approve of any initiative to define and simplify or clarify the existing situation in order to make the rules consistent. i therefore support this report.
written. - the aim of this proposal is to align the provisions of the various legislative acts with article 290 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union by conferring delegated powers on the commission. i would support parliament in the amendment that the period of these powers is not 'indefinite' but reduced to five years, with the possibility of extension. this amendment increases the mutual control that parliament has over the work of the commission. i also welcome the enhanced transparency, as the proposal requires the commission to submit a report on the implementation of the delegation nine months before the expiry of the period. i also support the extension of the period of scrutiny by the european parliament, as in certain cases limitations on time limits are justified. in order to protect the european parliament's powers in the context of delegated acts, it is justified to accept their limited applicability, as it should not be forgotten that the procedure for early acceptance without objection already exists for emergencies.
in writing. - the commission will, regarding legislative acts in force, review the provisions attached to this procedure in each instrument it intends to modify, in order to adapt them in due course according to the criteria laid down in the treaty. the commission will assess the results of this process and, by the end of the 7th term of this parliament, all provisions referring to the regulatory procedure with scrutiny will be removed from all legislative instruments. the present draft report is related to a proposal covering 160 legislative acts in various policy areas. the rapporteur proposed to the committees giving opinions that the three proposals should be regarded as a package, subject to the same timetable and adopted as soon as possible, so that the alignment exercise can be completed, ideally, by the end of the current legislative term.
written. - i supported the nomination of oscar herricks to the court of auditors. the european parliament's committee on budgetary control, after hearing the candidate, gave a favourable opinion on the council's proposal to appoint mr herics as a member of the court of auditors, by 15 votes to 2, with 2 abstentions and 1 against. i consider the opinion of the competent parliamentary committee and its members to assess the competence of the candidate and i voted for this report.
in writing. - i support the appointment of oskar herics as a member of the court of auditors. oskar herics joined the austrian court of auditors in 1991. his experience has involved him in government auditing and the auditing of state-owned undertakings. he held positions at the austrian court of auditors as auditor, senior auditor, head of department and head of section. it is known that he successfully performed all types of auditing: financial audits, compliance audits and performance audits. in regard to his involvement in national and international activities, it is obvious that he has acquired detailed knowledge and experience in the area of auditing. he has proved himself in many sectors: financial, banking, energy, transport, agricultural, etc. his active involvement in the public sector field at bilateral, european and international levels has shown his abilities. his expertise has been demonstrated at many seminars, workshops and meetings where he exchanged experience with supreme audit institutions in other countries (croatia, slovakia, fyrom). i think he is up to the role.
written. - i support the amendment of rule 136 of the rules of procedure as proposed in mr. haffner's report. although this change is only technical in nature, it is nonetheless significant. ngos that monitor parliament's work and disseminate information to the media and the public need to know whether or not the absence of a member from a sitting is justified. such organisations may only dismiss a member's absence if parliament also dismisses him. a distinction should be made between those who do not come for justified reasons such as advanced pregnancy, maternity leave, illness, etc., and those who do not come for unjustified reasons. i do not think it is necessary to specify the reason for the absence of the members, otherwise the privacy of the members would be violated.
written. - i supported the report by mr gerald haffner on the amendment of rule 136 of the rules of procedure on the attendance of members at plenary sittings, as i believe that for the future convocation of the european parliament it is necessary to distinguish between excused and unexcused absences from the european parliament. the statute for members of the european parliament was adopted by a decision of the european parliament in 2005 and the implementing measures for that status were adopted by a decision of the bureau of the european parliament in 2008, which clearly define in article 31 the cases in which the president justifies the absence of a member (health problems, difficult family circumstances, missions on behalf of the parliament, maternity leave). given that the work of the european parliament is followed by many media and specialised portals, which often point to positive and negative aspects of the work of members, i consider that, in the interests of greater transparency, it is necessary to amend rule 136 of parliament's rules of procedure to bring it into line with rule 31 above. the inclusion of the names of the members present and absent in the minutes of the sittings will reduce the negative perception that arises among citizens when various records and rankings are published, especially at the time of the elections.
written - rule 136 of the rules of procedure on the attendance of members at the partsession the list of members present at the ordinary part-sessions shall be laid down in the rules of procedure of the european parliament. in the previous version, the article only distinguished between the presence and absence of a representative at meetings. the president shall be informed of the reasons for the absence of a member and of the reasons for the absence of the other members. such cases shall be entered in the minutes of each meeting as 'confessed/confessed'. i voted for this motion. it is good to distinguish between justified absences and unjustified absences, for example when members are on official missions of parliament, on maternity leave and the like, in order to reduce the negative image of members on the websites that track their presence in plenary sessions.
in writing. - i agree with the report. this amendment seeks to record as ‘presentʼ in the minutes of each sitting, those members who were not present at the sitting but had been excused by the president (e.g. for maternity or paternity leave). currently, the concept of maternity or paternity leave does not exist in the legal provisions governing the parliamentary mandate. however, it is recognised as a legitimate reason for absence from official meetings. all members excused by the president on the grounds of ill-health, serious family circumstances, or imminent childbirth will no longer be counted as ‘not presentʼ. the aim of this amendment is to reduce the negative impact on a member’s attendance record and the resulting online ‘parliamentary activity indicatorsʼ such as votewatch. i support this amendment and i think that if there is a reasonable excuse for absence then a member’s attendance statistics should not be jeopardised.
in writing. - currently, the concept of maternity/paternity leave does not exist in the legal provisions governing the parliamentary mandate. however, it is recognised as a legitimate reason for absence from official meetings. i voted for the proposed amendment of rule 136 of the rules of procedure which suggests listing in the minutes of each sitting the names of those members who have been excused by the president as ‘excused’. it is solely aimed at reducing the negative impact on a member’s attendance record. as a result of the new measure the attendance record of those members who have been excused by the president on the grounds of ill health, serious family circumstances, presence on mission on behalf of parliament, expectation of childbirth or maternity leave would no longer be counted as ‘not present’.
madam president, i support this report. in particular, while co2 emissions from other sectors are generally decreasing, road transport is one of the few sectors where they are still growing, having increased by as much as 26% between 1990 and 2008. as a result, the sector is the second largest greenhouse gas emitter in the european union and contributes approximately one fifth of the total co2 emissions within the eu. however, i spoke in the debate yesterday and i was wrong to say that 13,000 workers are employed in the automotive industry 13 million workers across europe are employed in the automotive industry and we have to take care of them and that is why i support the super loans that are being granted and i believe that this is one of the contributions to the progress of this industry. so what i'm glad about is that after 2020, the commission is continuing to look at how to reduce co2 emissions by another 20%.
madam president, i supported this report because the objective is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in line with the measures set out in the europe 2020 strategy. the objective of the pilot project is to develop a european automotive industry that is capable of delivering the necessary technical and economic solutions to meet the needs of the automotive industry. all the measures provided for are in line with the roadmap for moving to a competitive low-carbon economy by 2050, which emphasises the long-term target of reducing emissions by 80% by 2050. i also support the report's call for the development of support schemes to encourage the development and use of new and environmentally conscious innovative concepts, which should not, of course, have a negative impact on budgets.
written. - any action aimed at reducing pollution is a good and significant contribution to the union as a whole, but also to neighbouring countries. the commission's proposal is not limited in time to the period up to 2020 but also covers the period after 2020. with this report, colleague thomas ulmer makes a significant contribution to reducing pollution of nature, which results in boosting the international competitiveness of the european economy as a whole. i voted in favour because i believe that this document represents a win-win combination between technological development and a justified investment in environmental protection.
written. - i supported this report and the intention to contribute to further reducing co2 emissions from new vehicles in an economically and environmentally acceptable way, using modern and innovative concepts. the path to the goal we are striving for to live in a more environmentally friendly society involves many positive factors. investing in alternative power generation creates high-tech jobs as well as manufacturing and r&d jobs, and boosting innovation also enhances the international competitiveness of eu industry. i therefore agree that it is important to design a system that encourages manufacturers and suppliers to incorporate technology, that is, eco-innovation, that further reduces fuel consumption. i welcome this proposal as one of the steps towards achieving sustainable growth and i am in favour of a more environmentally conscious union in the long term.
written. - i would like to express my support for this proposal as it contributes to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions in accordance with the measures prescribed by the energy development strategy of the republic of croatia until 2020, the national energy efficiency programme until 2016 and the plan for the protection of the air, the ozone layer and the mitigation of climate change for the period 2013 to 2017. i also welcome the fact that a compromise has been reached on the emissions level for the new fleet among the political groups on this issue, and it has been confirmed that the target for 2020 should be 95gco2/kg, while the long-term target would be to achieve emissions in the range of 68gco2/kg to 78gco2/kg for the vehicles of the new fleet. one way of achieving this objective and reducing emissions in general is to subsidize car manufacturers to produce ultra-low emission vehicles through so-called 'super credits' for low emission vehicles. the commission has also proposed that the commission should provide a report on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the financial interests of the union.
written. - studies have shown that the concentration of carbon dioxide in the earth's atmosphere has increased by more than 20 percent in the last 50 years alone. the major polluters of the atmosphere are recognized as being automobiles and the automobile industry. such results indicate the need for action and i therefore support the proposal to amend the regulation on the determination of the means of achieving the co2 emissions reduction target for new passenger cars. i see the target of 130 g co2/km after 2015 and 95 g co2/km after 2020 as a significant step towards reducing atmospheric carbon dioxide pollution and have therefore supported this proposal. in addition to significantly reducing pollution, such a directive is expected to stimulate research and innovation in the automotive industry, thereby promoting green growth, creating jobs and ultimately strengthening the competitiveness of eu industry.
written. - i supported this report because i believe that the final trialogue has struck a healthy balance between environmental sustainability and technological and economic utility. i particularly welcome the part of the report which directly affects small car manufacturers, by moving the limit for the application of excess co2 premiums from 500 cars to 1000, which i believe will give a positive economic and development stimulus to these manufacturers, whose impact on overall pollution is almost negligible. i think the current calculation for mass is discriminatory because if a manufacturer wants to make a car of less mass, they automatically have stricter rules and a lower limit for co2. the introduction of a new co2 calculation would encourage a reduction in the total mass of the vehicle, which i consider to be another positive aspect of the proposal.
madam president, i voted in favour of this proposal because we need to stimulate innovation and economic growth throughout the european union, and especially in countries like croatia that are experiencing economic problems. i believe that facilitating access and making the registration of eu trade marks more efficient is the right way to do this. we need to simplify the procedure for filing a european trade mark application, increase legal certainty and establish an appropriate framework for cooperation between the internal market reconciliation offices and the national offices. i believe that this will highlight the quality of european products and contribute to greater consumer confidence.
madam president, after 15 years of community trade mark existence, and in view of the trend towards an increase in the number of applications, it is important to review the legislation on trade marks. the strengthening of this legal instrument is also supported by the new legislative package. the fact that the right holder may prevent third parties from importing goods from outside the eu into the customs territory of the union, if those goods are not released for free circulation in that territory and are marked with the identical mark, further protects the trade mark holder. these amendments to the application for protection of the holder also allow the development of the single market. the cooperation between ohim and national intellectual property protection authorities provides a holistic approach to the protection of rightholders and their goods and services and creates the conditions for the growth and development of the competitiveness of the european economy in the global market. that's why i voted for the final version of the report.
madam president, i supported the report by mrs wikström on the proposal for a regulation amending the community trade mark regulation, as i believe that this text modernises the existing system and improves legal protection and security. the activities of the ohim in the internal market will thus be made more efficient. the european citizens and legal entities will be provided with better protection at lower cost and simplified access for smes. as from the moment of croatia's accession to full membership of the union, the effects of all community trade mark applications and registered community trade marks have been automatically extended to the territory of the republic of croatia, and croatian nationals and legal persons established in croatia may directly protect a community trade mark before the office for harmonisation in the internal market. i think that in this context we must also mention the difficulties we have had in terms of croatian pavement and terrain due to similarities with other products from neighbouring countries, and they are related to the interpretation of the concept of similarity.
the commission has also been working on a new approach to the protection of intellectual property rights, which is based on the principle of mutual recognition. the community trade mark system has been adopted by eu and third country traders and has become a successful and sustainable complement and alternative to the protection system of the member states. the proprietor of an eu trade mark shall be entitled to refuse entry to third parties for goods bearing an already registered trade mark without authorisation, in order to combat counterfeiting more effectively. particular emphasis should be placed here on the online trade in counterfeit goods. this regulation aims to modernise the community trade mark, to correct inconsistencies in the existing legal framework and to improve cooperation between offices dealing with intellectual property protection. it also provides for a greater role for national authorities in the protection of trade marks and the fight against counterfeiting. the main function of the mark is to guarantee the origin of the product to consumers by enabling them to distinguish it from another product without any possibility of confusion. we're making the security system faster, cheaper, more predictable and more accessible to entrepreneurs. this directive also enhances legal certainty and aligns terminology with the treaty of lisbon. the purpose of the stamp and the proposed changes is to make the eu economy as competitive and resilient as possible to the damage caused by counterfeiting.
written. - the lack of harmonisation of trade mark registration systems in all the member states of the union affects the efficiency of businesses and citizens. the aim is to ensure the coexistence and complementarity between eu and national stamp schemes in order to increase the speed of addressing such issues, innovation and consequently accelerate economic growth. the new proposal for a regulation proposed by the commission requires certain changes, as regards the organisation and governance of the european union agency for intellectual property. i support the proposal on transit and the use of international law as proposed by my group, but i think that more specific regional laws should be created for such matters. in an age of increasing online shopping, and with the expectation of further growth of this trend, we are facing an increased occurrence of counterfeits that can be a multiple danger for union citizens, both in terms of health and personal safety, but also in terms of job security. the first priority should be to protect the rights of consumers. i therefore welcome the fact that the proposal for a new regulation improves the definition of a name and a trade mark and introduces an annex on fees.
written. - the office of harmonization for the internal market (ohim) has been functioning successfully since its inception, but it needs to be continuously improved. changes are needed to stimulate innovation and achieve the common goal of even greater economic growth across the eu. the commission should be able to verify that the information provided by the applicant is complete and correct. the changes in this proposal include the name of the agency, changes in essential definitions, and most importantly, the resolution of governance issues that aim to improve the institution and improve its efficiency. in croatia, trademarks and intellectual property protection have recently been of great importance in order to raise awareness of the importance and value of ideas in today's economy. i voted for this proposal because it will certainly reduce costs and complexity, increase speed and predictability, and simplify legal saturation of the system. the commission has also proposed that the european union should be able to grant a licence to the european union to designate a trade mark as a trade mark in accordance with article 3 of the directive.
written. - i voted in favour of the report because it suggests improving existing trade mark laws through a process of taking best practice from across europe and strengthening further independence and user-friendliness. the experience gained since the establishment of the community trade mark system has shown that undertakings from the union and from third countries have accepted that system, which has become a successful and viable complement and alternative to the protection of trade marks at member state level. in order to encourage convergence of practices and the development of common resources, it is necessary to establish an appropriate framework for cooperation between the european union intellectual property agency and the offices of the member states, identifying key areas of cooperation and enabling the agency to coordinate relevant joint projects in the interest of the union. the cooperation activities should be of benefit to companies using the union trade mark systems.
madam president, i supported this report because it will allow member states to have a uniform procedure for freezing and confiscation of the proceeds of crime. this will improve cooperation between all eu countries in the fight against organised crime and terrorism and prevent the concealment of assets acquired illegally in any of the member states. it is important to note that the meaning of a property benefit is now extended to any form of economic gain derived from a criminal offence, directly or indirectly, as well as to property jointly owned by the spouses. i am pleased that this directive emphasises the importance of all confiscated property being used for socially beneficial purposes. the implementation of this directive will also be easily assessed, as each member state will maintain its own property register, and this year in croatia, on 1 january, a central state property register began its work, which will contain all data on all forms of state property, including this data, in one place.
madam president, of course i supported today the adoption of this report prepared by my colleague from the european people's party, monica macovei, and on the freezing and confiscation of the proceeds of crime. in particular, cross-border crime is sometimes better at ensuring freedom of movement than it is at the very heart of our single market, and in this respect the harmonisation of legislation in the field of justice and home affairs over the past 15 years has made great progress in encouraging member states, through measures and a legal framework at european union level, to achieve those minimum standards where it is precisely the taking of property from those who benefit economically from criminal offences that will be prioritised. and in that sense, these legal solutions go a step further. in croatia, after the law on the procedure for confiscation of property gains obtained by criminal acts and offences, we have made a big step forward in terms of prevention, but also in terms of sanctions against those who have benefited from committing criminal acts, and this will be very good for the cross-border dimension.
written. - organized crime knows no boundaries. it often happens that the financial benefits of a crime committed in one country are stored in another country. this requires better cross-border cooperation and mutual legal assistance. we want to adopt minimum rules that will harmonize the freezing and seizure institutions, and increase mutual trust. each member state can set more ambitious targets if it wishes. statistics tell us that the rate of confiscation of property in the eu is very low in relation to the financial benefits of crime. national laws differ too much and for that reason harmonisation is necessary. the directive proposes different modalities for freezing and seizing assets, all with the aim of ensuring that the proceeds of crime are not used to commit a new crime or invested in a legal business. of particular interest is the confiscation provision, which is not based on a conviction. a number of countries have already introduced this institute, which has been challenged in national courts and the european court of human rights. it was established to meet their constitutional requirements and to respect the rights of defence and the good faith of third parties.
in writing. - the european parliament's efforts to combat organised crime are once again being put into practice by today's vote. the work of the crim special committee, with its final report, was the fruitful conclusion of a year and a half of work. this text, which sets clear deadlines for the freezing and confiscation of proceeds of crime, sends a strong and direct signal in the fight against organised crime. this action, combined with the action taken by the member states, can certainly help to combat crime and reduce its negative effects on national economies and the european economy.
written. - i supported the report on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the freezing and confiscation of assets resulting from criminal offences in the european union, because of the need to regulate the confiscation of assets without a conviction and the possibility of confiscating assets transferred to third parties. the directive lays down minimum rules for member states concerning the freezing and confiscation of property acquired through criminal offences by means of direct seizure, value-added seizure, extended seizure, summary seizure and third-party seizure. the harmonisation of those rules in this specific area will encourage mutual trust between member states and more effective cooperation. it also contributes to the harmonisation and harmonisation of member states' laws and allows for better regulation of legislation at eu level.
written. - i support the directive on the freezing and confiscation of proceeds of crime within the european union. it is necessary to establish a single union-wide legislative framework to effectively combat cross-border crime. i particularly support the idea of considering the establishment of a union fund to hold confiscated assets and then use them for public and social purposes. it would shift the burden of economic damage done by some individuals to social rather than state benefits. the newly adopted legislation in croatia is in line with the future european commission directive in most of its provisions. the commission notes that the commission did not provide any information on the amount of the financial contribution of the bank to the bank. the commission will also continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's anti-money laundering and counterfeiting legislation, including the implementation of the eu's anti-money laundering and counterfeiting legislation.
written. - at eu level, the issue of confiscation of illegally acquired assets has not yet been resolved. less than one percent of the assets acquired by crime have been frozen or seized. that's why i voted for this report on the freezing and confiscation of illegally acquired assets. profit is the main motive for criminal acts and its withdrawal is the most effective punishment for crime. i support the commission's directive to facilitate the freezing and confiscation of assets acquired through illegal activities by means of asset confiscation measures following a final judgment, as well as the proposal for extended confiscation of assets in cases of active and passive corruption, criminal associations, child pornography.
written. - i support this motion. i think we need a legal framework and measures to freeze or confiscate assets that are suspected of being acquired through a crime for which no judgment has been given. i agree that states may consider adopting measures allowing for the confiscation of profits or assets before judgment is given or requiring proof of the lawful origin of assets to be confiscated, in accordance with the principles of national law. it is essential to prevent further transfer of suspiciously acquired assets. there are many cases and long court proceedings in the republic of croatia and i believe that this proposal is important both for croatia and for other members of the european union.
mr president, i also supported this proposal by mrs cecilia wikström, because we need to stimulate innovation and economic growth throughout the european union, and especially in countries like croatia, which i have already mentioned is in economic trouble. we need to modernise, improve the outdated provisions on trade marks and trademarks, thereby improving legal certainty and clarifying the interpretation of trade marks. i also believe it is important to improve cooperation between the internal market coordination offices and the national offices of the member states. protected trade marks and signs can highlight the quality of european products, make them more competitive and of higher quality, and i therefore believe that it was necessary to support this initiative. it is important to contribute to greater consumer confidence, to the enhancement of product quality and thus to the general competitiveness we all strive for.
madam president, in view of the importance of trade mark protection in economic development, i welcome the report by mrs wikström. the basic objective of trade mark protection, namely the achievement of product diversity in the market for goods and services, can only be achieved by precisely defined legal provisions. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 264 concerning the amendment of the list of trademarks to be protected by the eu trade mark. this does not in any way weaken the trade mark and community instruments, but only enables rightholders to determine, in accordance with their needs, the type of protection most appropriate to the particular situation. in order to enable the rightholder to offer his product or service as widely as possible on the different markets of the member states, it is important to simplify the administrative procedures. the commission should be able to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the extension of the scope of the application for registration of a trade mark to the territory of the member states.
madam president, the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to trade marks is part of the package that was created by the regulation we were talking about earlier. i believe that the adoption of both regulations and directives should be supported, as they emphasise the coexistence of dual protection, thus confirming the complementarity of the two systems at national and european level. i consider that the fundamental characteristic of the stamp system in europe is that it provides protection to all economic operators in such a way that they always have the freedom to choose between a national or a european system depending on the size and structure of the company, its objectives and projects and its own interests. it is important to strike a delicate balance at all times and to take account of the amounts of fees for national and european trade marks and the efficiency of the national offices. in this respect, i consider that the state intellectual property office of the republic of croatia also has an important role to play in cooperation with the office for harmonization in the internal market.
written. - the aim of this directive is to reduce divergence within the trade mark systems in europe, while preserving both national and european systems. these systems should become complementary to each other, thereby reducing user costs. more than 20 million entrepreneurs in the eu have different needs. the trade mark system should therefore be simple, flexible, accessible and sufficiently secure to meet their needs while preserving their competitiveness. national trade mark systems remain necessary in those areas which are not protected by the european trade mark system. the commission proposal expresses the need for harmonisation of national procedures and better cooperation between national agencies and ohim. it is essential to ensure the same protection for registered trade marks in all member states and to make protection at national level equivalent to that of the european union trade mark. these changes will not affect the eu's compliance with wto rules, in particular in the area of the production, trade and distribution of generic medicines within and outside the eu.
in writing. - the revision of the directive on the trade mark law of the member states of the union offers the possibility of strengthening the elements of harmonisation of the substantive law and procedures concerning trade marks used by national trade mark offices. the guiding principle of this revision is to preserve and strengthen the two-tier system of trade mark protection in europe. i believe that the trademark system should be made simpler and more flexible, so that the users of the system can have access to protection that meets their needs.
written. - i supported the proposal for a report on the member states' legislation on trade marks as it aims to modernise and improve the existing provisions of the current directive by amending obsolete provisions. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the establishment of a european data protection supervisor. the commission should be able to request the european parliament and the council to adopt a decision on the basis of the recommendations of the european parliament and the council. the compromise was reached on one of the more sensitive issues, which concerns transit goods and includes the right of the proprietor of a registered trade mark to oppose the introduction of products from third countries into the territory of the union. the guiding principle should be to preserve and strengthen the protection of trade marks in europe. the system of marks should be simple and sufficiently flexible to allow users of the system to access the protection best suited to their needs. it should be noted that many users depend on the use of the national protection system. the focus on the implementation of best practices and substantive law should make the national trade mark system more attractive to users. it would therefore be justified to harmonise a whole range of additional procedural aspects to improve the situation of trademark users in the protection of their marks in several national offices.
written. - in an increasingly competitive environment, we are seeing an increasing number of brands at both national and eu level. the trade mark represents for an increasing number of users a key role in market success and commercial value. this development is accompanied by growing expectations on the part of stakeholders and the need for a more balanced and high-quality system of trade mark registration, which is more consistent, more publicly available and more technologically advanced. the directive, which contains certain provisions of the eu member states' trade mark laws, has been in existence for more than 20 years. the business community in the european union is made up of more than 20 million businesses with vastly different needs. the system of stamps should provide users with sufficiently simple and high-quality access to a protection system that meets their flexible needs. the member states have agreed on some important issues. the question of the financial surpluses, or where they will go, i consider very important. i support the rapporteur's position on the creation of a reserve fund and the amendments to the delegated acts concerning fees because in that case the money would remain with ohim, and the surpluses would not bypass the member states.
written. - i supported this report. the current trade mark laws have been in place for 20 years and this directive will further preserve and strengthen the 'dual-level' system of trade mark protection in europe. this directive will give more than 20 million european companies the opportunity to protect their trade marks as they see fit. for example, some beneficiaries seek protection in only one member state, while others seek protection in all 28 member states. this directive seeks to harmonise those procedures so that beneficiaries do not have to deal with entirely different procedures in different member states. however, while i believe that harmonisation at eu level is necessary, i particularly highlight the rapporteur's proposal to delete the clause in the commission's proposal that calls for full harmonisation of the application process for a trade mark in national trade mark offices with the eu trade mark office. i consider that it would not be appropriate for applicants for a trade mark covering the territory of only one member state to have to go through the complicated procedure which applies to trade mark applications in the territories of all member states.
madam president, in order to respect parliament's role in monitoring the european area of freedom, security and justice and the political responsibilities of national parliaments, and the role of the european parliament in respecting and exercising its powers in the legislative process, it is necessary for europol to be a fully accountable and transparent internal organisation. to that end, it is necessary to lay down, on the basis of article 88 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, procedures for the scrutiny of europol's activities by the european parliament together with national parliaments, with a view to strengthening europol's democratic legitimacy and accountability to the citizens of europe. i also support the proposal in the part where a european exchange programme for all relevant legal experts would be established at national as well as at european union level, and in the part where europol would be given new responsibilities to provide more comprehensive support to the relevant authorities in the member states, including the possibility for europol to develop european union centres of expertise to combat certain types of crime covered by europol's objectives with a particular focus on the european cybercrime centre.
madam president, europol's objective is to improve the efficiency and cooperation between the competent authorities of the member states and to join forces in preventing and combating serious international organised crime. europol's role is to make a significant contribution to the enforcement of european union law. the proposal for a regulation aims to align europol decisions with the requirements of the lisbon treaty, to establish a legislative framework and to create a mechanism for scrutiny of europol decisions by the european parliament and national parliaments. this will increase europol's legitimacy and accountability to the citizens of the european union. i believe that in the modern age it is important to protect the european union and to manage europol's work in a high-quality and efficient manner.
madam president, i have supported the report by mr díaz de mere on this proposal for a resolution of the parliament and the council on the practical alignment of europol's work with the treaty of lisbon. i think it is extremely important that in the valuable efforts that all the quality people who sit in the hague and those who are their liaison officers in the member states with the police, with other national institutions that deal with finding those who commit crimes should be both transparent and in line with the principles of accountability and the protection of fundamental rights. i am thinking in particular of data protection. i believe that this resolution will contribute to aligning europol's operational activities with the standards set out in our lisbon treaty and will allow for more effective cooperation between europol and give further support to all police forces at member state level.
written. - criminal and terrorist groups pose a growing challenge to the security of the union and its citizens. they deal with a growing number of crimes, and their activities extend beyond the borders of one country. therefore, national authorities need to work more closely with their foreign partners and improve coordination among themselves. europol is the body at union level which assists the member states in the analysis, investigation and prevention of crime. it is essential that europol has the most up-to-date information. this raises the question of the protection of personal data of individuals. this proposal is geared towards greater data protection and provides that the processing of personal data must respect the principles of purposefulness and proportionality. it is therefore important to ensure enhanced and effective supervision of europol. the european parliament and the council shall be informed of the progress of the work of europol. the commission proposal to merge europol and the european police college (cepol) in order to maintain cepol's independence was rejected. however, given the high level of interconnectedness between these two bodies, a special partnership is being established which would improve the effectiveness of operational activities, training and efficiency of police cooperation in the eu.
written. - in this report, i supported the rejection of the proposal to merge cepol and europol. i supported the introduction of a stronger mechanism of joint cooperation for the purpose of scrutiny of europol's activities by parliament and national parliaments. the european parliament should be able to make its views known to the european parliament and to the council.
written. - i support the report on the european union agency for law enforcement cooperation and training. i welcome the alignment of the eu acquis on europol with the provisions of the treaty of lisbon which entered into force in 2009. the new mechanism makes the functioning of europol more transparent, with a focus on the democratisation of the management and oversight of europol's activities by the european and national parliaments. i also welcome the stronger role of the data protection system and the increased accountability of the independent european data protection supervisor. finally, i believe that the new functioning mechanism of europol will bring greater efficiency to its work, to which a greater responsibility and obligation on the part of the member states to ensure greater access to relevant information by europol will contribute in particular.
written. - i supported this report, which in particular proposes to align the european union agency for law enforcement cooperation and training (europol) with the lisbon treaty and to establish a mechanism for the european parliament to scrutinise the activities of europol. i would particularly like to highlight the part of the report which proposes concrete data protection measures such as the establishment of the epds, an independent supervisory body which will be exclusively responsible for supervising the way data is processed within europol. i believe that the implementation of those proposals will improve the governance and efficiency of europol.
written. - i voted in favour of this proposal because i believe that integrating and rationalising the functions of europol and cepol could lead to a significant improvement in the effectiveness of operational activities, emphasise the importance of training and the efficiency of union police cooperation. large criminal and terrorist networks pose a significant threat to the internal security of the union and to the security of its citizens' funds. national law enforcement authorities should therefore cooperate closely with their partners in other member states and, to that end, it is necessary to equip europol in such a way that it can provide greater support to member states in crime prevention, analysis and investigation throughout the union.
madam president, i support this proposal to extend the scope of the directive to cover additional categories of people, paid trainees and persons doing work for housing and food and to protect these vulnerable groups from exploitation and to increase certain rights of third-country nationals, taking into account that the main objective is to make the eu a more attractive destination for talented immigrants from third countries. i support the motion in the part that increases the rights of students to work part-time and provides employment opportunities for the families of researchers. in particular, i would like to highlight one of the key elements of the proposal, which concerns a better consideration of the potential of students and researchers, by providing them with the possibility of finding a job in the european union more easily after completing their studies or research. the commission should also be able to provide information on the impact of the migration on the labour market and on the impact of migration on the labour market.
madam president, i agree with this draft on the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purposes of research, study, student exchange, paid and unpaid training, volunteering. this appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the european schools for the period 2014-2020 (article 21 02 01) and the european schools for the period 2014-2020 (article 22 02 02). the union's macro-financial assistance should be directed to the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, the mediterranean basin and the black sea. in order to promote europe as a world market for study and training, the conditions for entry and residence of those wishing to come to the union for that purpose should be facilitated and improved. in order to facilitate third-country nationals' ability to pay part of the cost of their studies, students should be granted full access to the labour market under conditions. the aim is to make the european union an exemplary centre for research and innovation, to improve its position in the global competition for talent and to increase the overall competitiveness of the european union and sustainable development and growth. unfortunately, the recent referendum in switzerland did not send such a message.
madam president, i have supported this report and this directive proposed by the commission. i really believe that the conditions in the european union for the arrival of young, highly qualified people, students, researchers, who will thus help to increase the competitiveness of our economy, need to be modernised and improved. on the other hand, we need not fear precisely this kind of targeted immigration of highly qualified people. all the forecasts tell us that in 30 years only 15% of the population of the european union will be young, so we actually need more young people, especially highly qualified ones, not because immigration itself can change the demographic picture in the european union, but because it can certainly improve it in some segments. we will have a very old population in those 30 years - more than 60 million people will be over 80 - and that is why we need more young people and that is why i supported this directive.
madam president, in the european union, one of the most advanced societies in the world, over 40 million citizens were at risk of poverty in 2011. i call on the president of the european union to include this in his report on the work of the previous mandate. the proposal to set up a fund to help the materially disadvantaged in the european union is welcome and necessary at this time. on the other hand, the amount of just 3.5 billion euros for the period up to 2020 is ridiculous, if we compare it with the billions spent on rescuing and rehabilitating those who are directly responsible for the crisis and who have pushed millions of our citizens into poverty. yet, in this case, it is "better anything than nothing". i hope that the funds from the european fund for the most deprived, which we are discussing today, will reach those who need them. unfortunately, there are too many of them to help them all.
madam president, the fact that the european commission's humanitarian office has spent €14 billion in the last 20 years of its existence on humanitarian aid to victims of conflict and disasters in 140 countries around the world speaks to the need to establish a european voluntary humanitarian aid body. one of the fundamental principles of the european union is solidarity. the development of solidarity shall be expressed through humanitarian aid to people in third countries who are affected by disasters caused mainly by human activity and natural disasters, but also those who are not in third countries. overall, the european union is the world's largest humanitarian aid donor, providing almost 50% of the world's humanitarian aid. volunteering is a visible expression of solidarity whereby individuals make their knowledge, skills and experience available to others without financial gain. and that's one of the reasons why i supported this... (the chairman interrupts the speaker)
madam president, as we have unfortunately witnessed in recent years, the frequency of crises in the world is increasing. these figures include natural disasters, but also a very large number of those caused by the human factor. solidarity is one of the founding principles of the european union, which is currently the world's largest donor of humanitarian aid, covering 50% of all aid to third countries. i believe that despite the union's positive statistics in this area, strengthening the union's capacity to respond to humanitarian crises should be a priority. i therefore support this regulation and the objective of aligning the volunteers' initiative with the union's humanitarian aid policy. furthermore, i consider it important to work with local organisations in third countries to fill the gaps and thus contribute to the creation of added value and thus to lasting and visible effects. volunteering contributes to the development of intercultural awareness that we so desperately need in these times. we know how much humanitarian aid meant to croatia at a time when it needed it most, and so i am happy that this initiative will make that aid available to many other countries.
madam president, the european union provides 50% of the world's humanitarian aid, and thus reaffirms solidarity as its fundamental principle. the establishment of a european voluntary humanitarian aid corps would serve as a framework for the joint contributions of european volunteers to humanitarian actions. i support the intention to avoid overlapping of volunteer work in the same field, the work of the eu voluntary service with other active bodies. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this regulation. what is also important in the report is that it puts the safety of volunteers and the mandatory training of volunteers at the forefront. i am convinced that trained, trained and educated volunteers can make a significant contribution to the european union's humanitarian operations and that is why i support this report.
written. - the purpose of creating the european voluntary humanitarian service is, of course, to help third countries and their citizens who need humanitarian aid. it will also serve to promote the union's humanitarian values and solidarity throughout the world. the eu will continue to support the implementation of the unfccc and the unfccc-related resolutions. the european commission will be responsible for adopting standards for the identification, selection, training and deployment of volunteers in countries affected by natural and man-made disasters. the training programme should build on existing programmes of similar organisations and their experiences, and their involvement as a partner in the establishment of the european voluntary humanitarian service will be key. in conclusion, as the representative of a country that was unfortunately once a recipient of humanitarian aid from the international community, i strongly support this proposal.
the european commission adopted on 19 september 2012 a proposal for the establishment of european voluntary assistance, as provided for in article 214 (5) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. i support the report by michele striffler because humanity and solidarity are the fundamental values of the european union. the aim of humanitarian aid is to provide relief in times of crisis and immediately afterwards. i would like to highlight in particular the role of volunteers who are actively involved in providing humanitarian aid. each volunteer must be selected on the basis of his or her specific skills and expertise. their contribution is not one-off aid, but continuous work, involving local communities to ensure that aid is delivered in the best possible way. furthermore, i believe that the safety of volunteers must be guaranteed in all possible situations. the republic of croatia is one of the few european countries where volunteering is regulated by the volunteering act. in croatia, the values that volunteering represents for a society are slowly developing, and every year we witness an increase in volunteer organizations as well as volunteers. with the desire to build a better civil society, i support this report.
written. - the latest report on volunteering activity in the eu showed that there are between 92 and 94 million adults involved in volunteering, which means that around 22% of europeans over the age of 15 are involved in volunteering. volunteering is an important aspect of active citizenship and democracy it reflects european values such as solidarity and non-discrimination and contributes to the development of participatory democracy and the promotion of human rights. volunteering fosters solidarity between generations, creates social capital and contributes to social inclusion. although the economic crisis has not destroyed the spirit of volunteering in the eu, bureaucratic obstacles make it difficult to do so. the commission will continue to support the development of the union's external assistance to third countries, including through the european voluntary service. their departure contributes to the union's greater connection with third countries and to the creation of a special kind of connection and solidarity between them. the efforts of volunteers must be recognised and valued in the european skills passports and the possibility of recognising volunteering as non-formal learning and work experience, for example by awarding ects credits, should be considered.
written. - european union donations together account for more than half of all international humanitarian aid. often, the eu's efforts go unrecognised and are overshadowed by other international organisations. i therefore support this commission proposal to set up a european voluntary humanitarian aid corps to encourage young europeans to volunteer and to increase the visibility of the eu in such operations. in croatia, according to the ministry of social policy and youth, there are almost 16 000 registered volunteers, and many more interested than there are volunteer places. i believe that young people in croatia will now have the opportunity to become more involved in humanitarian projects through the european voluntary humanitarian aid corps, gaining invaluable experience, but also promoting the eu's core values of solidarity with those who need it most.
written. - with this compromise package, the union wants to raise the level of volunteering and humanitarian aid, because it is an indisputable fact that the union's humanitarian aid is overshadowed by that of other humanitarian organisations in the world. i support the amendments which aim at a more rational and transparent use of funds, which will be made possible by increasing the capacity of the union volunteers through better organisation and training. as a member of the committee on employment and social affairs, i support amendments that provide volunteers with financial compensation for field work and increase their safety through paid accommodation, insurance and health insurance guaranteed by this compromise package. i consider the report to be positive and therefore i voted in favour.
mr president, i strongly support this proposal because through the europe 2020 strategy, the european union is seeking to reduce the number of people on the brink of poverty by at least 20 million by 2020. unfortunately, the economic and financial crisis is increasing the number of poor people by the day, and data from 2011 tell us that almost 120 million citizens of the european union are on the brink of poverty. also of growing concern is the lack of access to quality food, with studies showing that some 43 million citizens cannot afford quality food containing meat or fish. these are the basic necessities of life for every individual and unfortunately this can and does lead to health problems. the average number of poor people in croatia is among the highest in the european union, 20.9% of citizens of the republic of croatia are poor. i therefore consider the fund for european aid to the most deprived to be extremely important and i believe that it is our task to look after the future of our children and all citizens of the union and i hope that we will do everything in this regard.
madam president, respect for human dignity and solidarity are fundamental values of the european union, but in the european union a quarter of the population is at risk of poverty and social exclusion. according to the eurostat report, croatia is ranked third in the risk of poverty among the countries of the european union, which tells how important this report is for us. i therefore welcome the commission's proposal to set up a european fund for the most deprived and i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on a successful trialogue at which she managed to negotiate eur 3.5 billion for the next seven years even one billion more than the commission's initial proposal. this is of course far from enough to eradicate poverty in the european union, but every step towards it is very important. it is expected that this fund will help some two million people a year who live on the margins of society and enable them to start living a life of dignity.
madam president, i have endorsed the report on the proposal for a fund to help the most vulnerable for the period 2014-2020. the report aims to provide effective assistance to the most vulnerable, which is a major challenge for the european union and for all member states. the fight against poverty can only be based on strong political will. within the implementation of poverty reduction, civil society organisations and local and regional governments have a major role to play. the exchange of information between them should be the basis of that cooperation. the incredible fact is that almost 43 million europeans cannot afford an adequate daily meal. i would like to stress the importance of this initiative for children. almost 25 million children in the european union are at risk of poverty. poor nutrition has a very negative effect on their development and health. i therefore sincerely hope that this report will be successfully implemented, in the hope of a better and more developed europe and its member states.
madam president, i voted today in favour of the fund for european aid to the most deprived on the basis of the report by mr costello. i think it is extremely important that in the negotiations on the new multiannual financial framework we have finally managed to agree on as much as 3.5 billion euros to help those who have been pushed to the very edges of society by social vulnerability and social exclusion. the principle of european solidarity is crucial and fundamental to the functioning of all our policies, and in the context of the crisis that has hit europe in recent years, we know that in many member states a high percentage of people live below the poverty line. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european social fund is a step in the right direction, and it is a step in the right direction, but it is not a step in the right direction.
madam president, over 40 million people in the european union are affected by the crisis and are living in difficult material conditions. over 25 million children are at risk of poverty and social exclusion. one of the main objectives of europe 2020 is to reduce the number of poor people. the fund that protects the most vulnerable, the homeless, the hungry, the socially isolated was shut down late last year due to a lack of funds. that is why i am naturally in favour of establishing a fund for european aid to the most deprived and it is important that we have managed to allocate a significant amount of money, 3.5 billion euros over a seven-year period. this fund is important for strengthening the cohesion and solidarity of society and for reducing poverty by providing social housing or shelter for the homeless, collecting food, shoes and clothing for those most in need. in the republic of croatia, the number of poor is increasing, as people are left without work in the conditions of the crisis. this fund is to help the most vulnerable and that's why i support the proposal to form it.
written. mr. costello's report shows that the number of people without the basic means of living is increasing. the 2012 data show that 8% of union citizens are in such conditions. there are differences between member states, but unfortunately the situation in croatia, my country of origin, is no more optimistic. in croatia, 32.3% of the population was below the poverty line in 2013, compared to 20.2% in 2012. it is clear that the national authorities, both in croatia and in other eu member states, cannot and are not able to solve the problems of poverty and social exclusion on their own. for this reason, i welcome the establishment of the fund for the relief of the most deprived and i agree with the report presented by mr costello. eu member states are in a period of economic and social instability and their social policies need to be adapted and improved. the support from the fund will allow for the more effective and efficient implementation of the operational programmes of the member states to combat poverty and social exclusion and to strengthen social cohesion in the union. in doing so, particular attention should be paid to the most vulnerable groups, children and young people, the elderly and pensioners, the unemployed and the disabled. poverty, inequality and social exclusion are key to achieving sustainable economic growth and increased employment.
written. - i supported this proposal for a regulation of the european parliament because the fund would certainly enable the union to continue to alleviate the worst forms of poverty and social insecurity. in order to respond in the best possible way to the needs of the most vulnerable, the principle of partnership should be applied at all stages of the fund. one of the characteristics of material deprivation of the necessities of life is the inaccessibility of adequate quantity and quality of food. the fund itself should not replace the policy pursued by member states' governments to limit the need for emergency food assistance and to set sustainable targets, and the policy to eradicate hunger, poverty and social exclusion. the role of the fund should actually be to mitigate these items. i also supported this proposal, because the non-use of food produced in the union, in order to reduce the material deprivation, should be regulated through non-profit organisations that are engaged in combating food deprivation. this can greatly help those who are struggling to meet the basic needs of life.
written. - the economic and financial crisis has increased poverty and social exclusion in the union. one of the main characteristics of poverty is the inability to access sufficient food or food of good quality. the mfa is a programme that has been in operation since 1987 to enable member states to release public food stocks and distribute them as aid. 19 million people benefited from it in 2011, and apart from some smaller projects, the cdm is currently the only programme in the eu that reaches the marginalised. at a time when people are still recovering from the last financial crisis, and when the number of homeless and people on the brink of poverty is increasing, i believe it is unacceptable to reduce the resources that would have been specifically for them and in some way save the most vulnerable people. the fead is intended to support the development of the union's energy policy and to contribute to the achievement of the union's objectives in the field of energy. but i believe that the total of €3.5 billion for the period up to 2020 is not nearly enough to meet the needs of those who need it most, and i hope to review the programme with a view to increasing the budget before its formal expiry.
written. - i support the eu's efforts to find a way to eradicate poverty, which has recently been alarming within the eu, especially in the member states of the union still emerging from the global crisis. unfortunately, there are very clear measurable differences in poverty levels between member states and therefore i believe that the financial investment required to deliver the project could be better invested in member states with problems of high unemployment and poverty. while the report has some positive segments that should be developed to help those in need, unfortunately it shows no progress in addressing the root causes of the problems. that is why i abstained in the vote.
written. - poverty and social exclusion are not uniform across the union and their severity varies between member states. it is natural that the eu needs a fund to help the most vulnerable, but we need to ask ourselves how we got here in the first place. not so long ago, children were taught in school that poverty and hunger were reserved for other continents. now we need not look far, for such poverty is found in our neighborhood, even in countries that are reputed to be the most developed and of high standards. in the past, begging on the streets was done mainly by older men who were alcoholics. look at the homeless and hungry population today. these are young people in the prime of their youth and vigor, but this system does not provide them with employment or a roof over their heads. instead of talking about the fund, let's start talking about the causes of poverty. the greed of big business, banks and even the state to profit and enrich a small number of people, while the former middle class dies out and ends up on the streets.
written. - the action of biocidal products is directed towards the control of undesirable organisms whose undesirable presence or harmful effect affects human health and activities, animals and the environment. if used improperly or if the necessary precautions are not taken during use, they may have harmful effects on non-target organisms. therefore, their placing on the market and use should ensure that biocidal products present on the market are sufficiently effective to control undesirable organisms, but also that they do not have an unacceptable effect on human and animal health and the environment. as the report of mr groote shows, the implementation of the biocidal products regulation adopted in 2012 has shown a number of technical errors and unintended consequences and corrections and clarifications are necessary. i therefore support the report as it takes us one step closer to the successful use of biocidal products and to achieving the highest level of protection of human and animal health and the environment.
written. - the biocidal products regulation represents a significant revision of the existing legislation on biocidal products by harmonising the rules on the use and availability of these products on the market, while ensuring a high level of protection for both humans and animals and the environment. that is why i supported the proposal for a report on biocidal products.
written. - i support the commission's proposal, which is necessary to provide legal clarity and certainty to member states, industry and the general public. technical clarifications such as the meaning of 'assistive technology', consistency with legislation on the classification, labelling and packaging of substances and mixtures, and various corrections and improvements in the text itself, represent a step towards clearer rules of legislation and will consequently reduce ambiguity in regulation in order to enable manufacturers to be more competitive on the european and global market. in doing so, particular attention shall be paid to the protection of persons, animals, materials or articles against undesirable organisms. the health of citizens and the protection of the environment in which we live, and which future generations will one day inherit from us, are the key backbones of legislation relating to biocidal products. i am pleased that the republic of croatia has been part of reach - the european regulation on the registration, evaluation and authorisation of chemicals - since last year and that we have brought our legislation into line with this and all other regulations related to the chemicals market by joining the european union in a timely manner.
written. - the commission has identified a significant number of errors of a technical nature in regulation (eu) no 528/2012 of the european parliament and of the council concerning the making available on the market and use of biocidal products adopted in 2012. the commission should be able to request the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection. i voted in favour of this proposal by the rapporteur and the commission. it is important to provide the necessary legal clarity and certainty to member states, industry and the general public and to correct as quickly as possible technical errors that may cause unforeseeable consequences on the market for biocidal products and during their use.
written. - i support this proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation no 528/2012. biocides are means of destroying living organisms and include all pesticides except plant protection products. biocides are used in sanitation, personal hygiene, material protection, and many other areas. regulation (eu) no 528/2012 concerning the making available on the market and use of biocidal products with regard to certain conditions for access to the market introduced a substantial change in legislation and harmonised the rules that biocidal products must comply with in order to be placed on the market in the european union and to ensure a high level of protection of human and animal health and the environment in general. however, i agree that the regulation has shortcomings and i support this proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation no 528/2012. i am a member of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, and this is a very important subject for me because i think we have to do everything in our power to protect the health of the citizens of the european union and to protect the environment as much as possible.
written. - this report is essentially a technical correction necessary for the proper functioning of the biocidal products regulation. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the commission has taken into account the need to ensure that the union industry is able to comply with the requirements of the regulation. i consider that the agreement reached in the trialogue is balanced and fully in line with the principle of proportionality, and i therefore voted in favour.
madam president, the statistics on violence against women in europe are devastating. as many as 45% of women have suffered some form of violence, over 10% have experienced sexual violence and one in seven in the european union dies as a result of violence. we see an increase in the number of women victims of violence, but also the number of women killed as a result of violence is unfortunately increasing. this trend must be stopped, because violence against women changes their position in society and leaves deep physical and psychological scars. i supported this report and the recommendations to the commission to develop as a matter of urgency a european union-wide strategy and action plan to successfully combat violence against women and girls. i believe that raising awareness through early education, but also involving the media in the campaign, is the key to changing the stereotypical attitudes towards women and girls in society, which will ultimately lead to a reduction in violence. finally, i call on all countries that are not yet members to ratify the istanbul convention as soon as possible.
madam president, it is astonishing that the council of europe convention has not been ratified by many countries of the european union. we heard last night from commissioner georgijeva that only austria, italy and portugal have ratified this convention. this is also an opportunity to call on all countries, including my country croatia, to ratify the convention on violence against women. we're talking about statistics -- sometimes they're reliable, sometimes they're unreliable, but if these numbers are accurate, then they're striking: that 45 percent of women experience some form of gender-based violence in the union, not in the world. also, domestic violence is a major problem worldwide, with more than 603 million women worldwide living in countries where domestic violence is not considered a crime. so it's up to us to set an example and get our member countries to at least ratify the convention.
madam president, respect for the dignity of women is the measure of a society's self-respect, the measure of a society's maturity. however, we in the european union, unfortunately, have a lot of work to do, we have quite bad statistics. 45% of women in europe have been victims of violence, 10% have suffered sexual violence, 12% of women in europe are victims of domestic violence. in croatia, according to the ministry of the interior, a woman is molested every 15 minutes. with 83% of women in croatia never reporting violence, the actual number of abused women is likely higher. violence against women has, of course, a transnational dimension and must therefore be tackled at european union level. we need to have minimum standards defining the collective action we will take to combat violence against women and that is why i supported this report.
written. - i want to thank the rapporteur and express my support for this report and for the creation of all the necessary measures to combat gender-based violence. today, gender-based violence no longer happens behind closed doors in the home. now it's everywhere, following children from the earliest age by appearing in games, and continuing through commercials, music videos, television and film, and culminating on the internet. while all forms of violence deserve our strongest condemnation, i am particularly concerned about the phenomenon of cyberbullying, which is most often directed against girls and women and is not fully covered by this report. such violence spreads through the internet at a rapid rate and easily gets out of hand. it may even be more dangerous than verbal abuse in real life because it is visible to all, and bullies who are protected behind their monitors receive encouragement from others to continue their abuse. cyber violence leads to physical violence in real life because criticism of it in cyberspace often goes unheard. it is therefore necessary to introduce additional safeguards in the virtual world that facilitate the reporting of violence and the removal of violent content from the internet and that allow the punishment of the perpetrators. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on gender equality and the fight against gender-based violence.
written. - i support the report by mp parvanova on combating violence against women because i believe it is an increasingly common problem in today's society. furthermore, i would like to express my support for the european parliament which has indicated the need for a new eu legislative proposal to create a consistent system of collecting statistical data on violence against women. the commission's action plan for the implementation of the stockholm programme 2010 works to raise awareness among women and girls of their rights and men and boys of the need to respect the physical and psychological integrity of women in order to prevent such violence. the commission's gender equality strategy 2010-2015 seeks to address gender-based violence as a barrier to further gender equality. the treaty of lisbon opens up new possibilities for strong cooperation in the field of criminal justice policy at union level and allows such institutions and member states to work together on a solid basis to create a common eu legal culture to combat all forms of violence against and discrimination against women, while respecting national legal systems and traditions without seeking to replace them. in its conclusions of december 2012, the council called for improvements in the collection and dissemination of comparable, reliable and regularly updated data on all forms of violence against women at national and eu level, in order to work more effectively to prevent this type of violence.
madam president, we cannot but express concern that the delegation of legislative powers to the commission involves important political and strategic issues. in accordance with the treaty of lisbon and with settled case-law, the adoption of the provisions crucial to the question of delegation is a matter for the exclusive competence of the legislator, which means that the adoption of provisions requiring political decisions falling within the legislator's responsibilities cannot be delegated, but can only consist in supplementing or amending non-essential parts of a legislative act. it is recalled that in the field of employment and social affairs, parliament challenged the validity of the eures decision before the european court of justice in order to protect its powers because the commission had not respected the limitations arising from article 291 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. i support the practical proposals aimed at protecting parliament's prerogatives by emphasising the discretion of this body to decide which secondary elements of a legislative act it wants to deal with and which it will not deal with by delegation of power.
madam president, parliament and the council can delegate part of their powers to the european commission under the treaty of lisbon. the adoption of provisions requiring political decisions falling within the responsibility of the legislator may not be delegated, but non-essential parts of a legislative act may be supplemented or amended. the basic act shall specify the purpose, content, scope and duration of the delegation and shall lay down the conditions governing the delegation of power. i voted in favour of this report because it makes a number of concrete and practical recommendations which will contribute to more effective supervision by the member states of the commission's exercise of its implementing powers. the report also highlights the need to strengthen the role of the european parliament in order to give democratic legitimacy to the european commission's delegated acts, which i fully agree with.
written. - i supported the report by mr jozef szayer on the follow-up to the delegation of legislative powers and the control by the member states of the commission's exercise of implementing powers. in the area of implementing powers, the eu requires that 'decisions be taken as closely as possible to the citizen, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity' (preamble to the eu treaty) and that, under article 291, member states adopt all measures of national law necessary to implement legally binding union acts. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. the commission should be able to monitor the implementation of the union's budget in the light of the results of the union's external audit. it also stresses the need to strengthen the role of the european parliament in order to guarantee democratic legitimacy through delegated acts of the european commission. in addition to effective supervision, i believe it is necessary to demonstrate in a proper way that the impact of eu legislation will improve the quality of regulation of certain segments of society and that european regulation should be a real added value to legislative activities at national level.
written. - i supported this report on follow-up to the delegation of legislative powers and the control by member states of the commission's exercise of implementing powers. i believe that the guidelines in this report will make it considerably easier for the parliamentary rapporteurs to deal with delegated and implementing acts. i agree that parliament should, when applying articles 290 and 291 tfeu, follow the criteria set out in the report, as delegation of power is a sensitive decision. it is necessary to ensure the proper application of the treaty in order to guarantee a sufficient level of democratic legitimacy of delegated acts. the purpose of article 290 is to simplify and streamline the legislative procedure and the commission should also act accordingly by avoiding the use of delegated acts to re-open the debate on issues on which an agreement has already been reached through a political trialogue.
written. - i agree with the proposal on accompanying measures for the delegation of legislative powers and the control by member states of the commission's exercise of implementing powers. delegation is a sensitive operation that gives the commission guidance on the exercise of the power. it is clear that there is a need to ensure the proper application of the treaty, thereby ensuring a sufficient level of democratic legitimacy. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the delegation of power not later than nine months before the end of the five-year period. the delegation of power referred to in article 3 (2) may be revoked at any time by the european parliament or by the council. within the european union, all member states adopt all measures of national legislation so as to require the implementation of legally binding union acts. delegating powers to the commission can be of considerable political importance for european union citizens, businesses, entire sectors because of the potential socio-economic, environmental impacts. the commission has the right to amend legislative acts, which includes amending the annexes, since they form an integral part of the legislative act. the measure to further define the exact content of the obligations contained in a legislative act aims to supplement the basic act by adding non-essential elements.
written. - i voted against this report because, although it calls for precise rules to be established for the choice of instruments available to the european commission in the implementation and application of legislative acts, i.e. whether delegated or implementing acts are to be adopted, it does not advocate greater involvement of the member states in the preparation of those acts. the need to ensure the democratic legitimacy of legislative acts adopted by the european institutions requires strict compliance with the mechanism provided for in the treaty on the functioning of the european union, but achieving this objective also presupposes that the member states are involved in the preparation of implementing and delegated acts, which the resolution failed to emphasise.
madam president, i have followed the debate on this report with great interest this morning and i must say that mr de backer rightly criticised the european union and the commission and made a brilliant point that a social paradise cannot be built on an economic cemetery. we face the fact that the economic recovery of the european union is still weak and that structural reforms in the member states have not been implemented with sufficient enthusiasm. let us not be deceived, let us be clear that in some segments the political will to do so was clearly lacking. i believe we all understand that without a long-term consolidation of public finances at european level, we will not be able to secure the social rights we seek to protect. in other words, if structural reforms continue to be slack, we will reap the fruits of our political slackness in further deepening debt, unemployment, social exclusion and poverty. i am therefore very happy to support mr de backer's report and i hope very much that the recommendations contained in it will be taken seriously by the representatives of the european commission.
madam president, the visibility and impact of the european union's economic recovery are still not fully visible. it is therefore of the utmost importance that economic policies, both at national and european levels, focus on a long-term exit from the crisis. the main objective is fiscal consolidation with the member states' demanding measures. for example, the shift of taxation from labour to consumption and particularly in activities that have adverse effects on environmental protection. the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the new rules on the european union's financial contribution to the european research area. investments in these sectors would, in the long term, achieve the objectives of recovery through investment and job creation.
madam president, why do we have the european semester? for better governance, for the coordination of fiscal policies, for competitiveness, for the recovery from the crisis, for the growth and development of the european union. the european semester is here for our citizens, for entrepreneurs, for a better and more secure future for our young people. that's why i supported this report. the report highlights the essential elements for the success of the european semester: 1. the adoption of national reform programmes that include specific recommendations and for which there is a strong political will to implement; 2. the clearer definition of activities and objectives in the specific recommendations; 3. greater responsibility for implementation by member states and involvement of national parliaments; and 4. what is particularly important, a more concrete link with cohesion policy.
madam president, the report on the european semester for economic policy coordination in the context of the commission's annual growth survey report for 2014 has indeed produced a high-quality proposal of all those elements which are essential for the coordination of the economic policies of the member states on the parameters: fiscal consolidation and support for the economy, growth and competitiveness, the fight against unemployment and the social crisis with better and more efficient public administration, but also with the element of transparency and the democratic legitimacy of the european semester, and i therefore consider that the meeting a few weeks ago between the representatives of the national parliaments and the european parliament was excellent. as a member of the committee on budgets, i believe that we have made a very important contribution to overcoming the crisis by adopting the european union's multiannual financial framework and by prioritising programmes such as horizon, cosme, erasmus in order to get our economy moving.
written. - i supported this report because the main objective of the 2014 annual growth survey is to achieve sustainable, smart and inclusive growth and competitiveness that will lead to economic recovery in the european union and thus to the creation of new jobs. although the economic recovery in the euro area is slow, greater investment in research, innovation, education and resource efficiency at national and european level is essential to ensure competitiveness. but i also believe that it is extremely important to keep young people in mind when designing economic policies and reforms, because the lack of ambitious reforms and irresponsible economic policies will burden future generations with the burdens of their ancestors and limit their opportunities. i am particularly pleased that the report has emphasised the importance of young people in the context of economic policy.
written. - i welcome the resolution of parliament and the strong compromise reached on the conclusions for the 2014 targets. that is why i support the report by parliament calling on the commission to change its economic strategy. the purpose of economic strategy should be growth and employment policy. the big problem currently affecting europe, and the republic of croatia as a member, is youth unemployment. as medium- and long-term planning concerns the generations of young europeans and future generations, further efforts are needed to combat youth unemployment. the year 2014 is crucial for building smart, sustainable growth and increasing competitiveness. i am concerned about the possible misunderstanding of the very concept of the european semester. the european semester should not in any way compromise the competences of the european parliament and national parliaments, and there should be a clear division of competences between the eu and national levels. i also support the creation of a european financing mechanism which should serve as an incentive for more convergence in the union, thus repairing the damage done by the coordinated austerity policies of recent years.
written. - the 2014 growth survey shows that the eu economy is recovering, but this is still not enough. the need for growth-friendly fiscal consolidation is also recognised. i support the rapporteur's view that the commission should pass on this priority as concrete recommendations to the member states and the eu as a whole. member states must simplify their tax systems and contribute to social security, thereby increasing investment in education, research and development, which are the foundations of economic growth. structural reforms need to be complemented by more long-term investments in education, research, innovation and sustainable energy. i also support the rapporteur in her view that the member states and the commission are not fulfilling their obligation to complete the single market, which is crucial for the eu's economic growth. i voted in favour of this report because i agree with the rapporteur on many of the points and recommendations.
written. - i agree with the above suggestion. it is well known that growth in the euro area markets is stagnating. the commission has confirmed that more than the targets contained in the europe 2020 strategy will not be achieved even under the best-case scenarios. the commission therefore decided to monitor the achievement of the europe 2020 strategy objectives at national and european level in the recommendations received by each member state of the european union. it monitors the achievement of employment, education, poverty and other objectives. it is essential to promote sustainable vocational reforms for stability in the medium and long term. it is essential to invest more in research, innovation and development, education at national and european level. the european union needs to focus on a growth model based on the accumulation of excessive debt and the consumption of resources. it is therefore important to pay attention to the impact of young europeans and future generations. all eu member states should continue to pursue growth-friendly fiscal consolidation. all countries need to focus on simplifying their tax systems, to make the efforts faced by the area of consolidation more effective and to increase investment in education and research.
madam president, i must admit that i was really surprised by mr barros' optimism in this morning's debate on this report and that, like the rapporteur, mr prieto, i wonder what exactly is the source of that optimism. the fact is that the social gap in europe has widened during the years of the crisis and that the number of unemployed, poor and socially excluded people is increasing. the question of why this is so is actually quite clear. partly because of the wrong approach to the economic crisis, and partly because of the lack of political will to implement measures that were good and sustainable in the long run. i therefore support this report and hope that the steps it proposes will bring about an end to the dangerous trends of impoverishment and social exclusion of a growing number of european citizens.
madam president, the social aspect and employment are an important part of the european semester. the member states which receive significant funding from cohesion policy, and which are the least developed and most vulnerable, are often both in the excessive deficit procedure and in macroeconomic imbalances. the dilemma that arises is how to implement fiscal consolidation and stronger budget cuts without increasing poverty, unemployment and reducing competitiveness and opportunities for growth and development. that is why this report is important, putting youth, entrepreneurship and social measures in the forefront to fight poverty, and i have supported it today.
madam president, today's report on the european semester in this part which relates to employment, to social issues, is important in the context of the use of european funds, it is important also because it is part of the europe 2020 strategy and i believe that the european social fund can be precisely the mechanism that will help the situation which is very difficult in terms of the total number of unemployed in the european union, and in particular the unemployed young people who are 23% as a whole and in some countries even 50%. croatia is unfortunately in the top 3 when it comes to youth unemployment. i therefore believe that we have done well to prioritise the youth guarantee in the first three years of this multiannual financial framework of €6 billion, and that the competitiveness of young people in the european union market will one day be helped by a mobility programme such as erasmus plus. i also believe that we need to make further efforts in both fiscal consolidation and austerity measures are also a contribution to solving social issues.
written. - although the second quarter 2013 figures show that the recession in the euro area is over, we are aware that the problem of high, indeed alarming, unemployment remains, not only in the euro area, but throughout the european union. croatia, the youngest member of the eu, is also struggling with this problem; as many as 378,284 unemployed persons were registered at the end of january. i supported this report because we need a labour market reform based on social dialogue and the fact that the link between the social and economic aspects is the key to the development of the union. we need a flexible and dynamic labour market that does not respond to the challenges of the economic crisis by simply laying off workers and reducing wages to the point of pushing workers to the brink of poverty. we need a labour market that offers quality jobs with pay that ensures a decent life for every worker, because only a skilled, adaptable and dedicated workforce will lead to a competitive economy, the social well-being of the member states and the union as a whole.
written. - the crisis that hit the union was one of the greatest crises in the last 100 years, and its effects on poverty and unemployment are still being felt today. in the recovery of most european economies, further work is needed to reduce inequalities among citizens, thereby promoting growth and job creation. i am therefore pleased that the majority in parliament has been able to agree on important issues relating to economic and social policy. the eu's competitiveness will be most and most rapidly boosted by investments in education, which will encourage productivity, continuous innovation and digitalisation. this is why i am concerned that almost all member states, which are also affected by the mismatch between labour market needs and the actual skills of the workforce, have reduced public expenditure on education in relative terms. youth unemployment is a major problem for member states and i support the youth employment initiative. i believe that, although the total amount is not nearly enough, the six billion euros that will be used for this purpose will certainly help to reduce youth unemployment.
written. - i supported the motion for a resolution of the european parliament on employment and social policy aspects in the 2014 annual growth survey. i support the rapporteur's recommendation on quality jobs and decent pay. the purchasing power of many workers in the eu is severely impaired, household incomes are reduced, implying weak domestic consumption. in the republic of croatia, unemployment is on the rise, with a total of 382 000 people of working age without a job. i also support the rapporteur's view on youth unemployment. youth guarantee programmes need to be implemented. in croatia, youth unemployment is among the highest in europe at 52% and i therefore support the initiative to reduce this figure both in croatia and in the other member states so affected by the crisis. the third thing i would like to look at is the recommendation on sustainable pensions. the necessary reforms are needed to ensure the sustainability of pension systems in the light of the ageing trend in the eu.
written. - i agree with the above suggestion. it is clear that annual growth in the euro area will remain unstable for the rest of the year, and unemployment will remain at very high levels. the commission should also be able to provide the necessary financial support to the member states in order to ensure that the union's macro-financial assistance is used to support the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance. unemployment in the european union has reached 26.6 million, with most member states at record levels. in some member states, more than 50% of young people aged 16 to 25 are unemployed, for reasons ranging from precarious employment contracts to unpaid traineeships. unfortunately, unemployment of this kind could cause structural unemployment. the income per household is decreasing, which is indicative of the trend of poverty and social exclusion. it is necessary to continue differentiated fiscal consolidation that has a positive impact on growth, thus ensuring the long-term sustainability of the welfare state and public finances. all member states need to perform better in order to promote sustainable and equitable growth and job creation. croatia as a new member of the european union supports initiatives that focus on improvements within the labour market. 21[nbsp ]% of the total croatian population is unemployed.
written. - this report expresses concern that agriculture as an activity in its present form cannot meet the demands of a growing world population. the report calls for investment in developing new methods of tillage, preserving crop diversity, and research to increase yields. however, such efforts require great care to protect human health and the environment. we cannot allow the authorisation of genetically modified organisms until the risk assessment has been improved. the european commission's latest decision on genetically modified maize was adopted against the will of citizens in as many as 19 member states. meps are responsible for conveying the votes of citizens and ensuring the credibility of the european union.
in writing. - to meet future challenges such as food supply needs and climate change, it is of the utmost importance to have an effective and competitive plant breeding sector. while noting the fundamental nature of soil health and diversity in terms of resilience of agricultural ecosystems, it is necessary to evaluate varieties that can adapt to expected future conditions, such as increased rainfall and an estimated higher incidence of plant diseases. however, it remains essential to preserve and develop the diversity that exists in all regions of europe, both at the level of the agricultural ecosystem as a whole and with regard to genetic diversity.
written. - the report highlights the importance of the plant-growing industry and its link to the diversity, health and quality of agriculture, horticulture and food production itself. it stresses the importance of re-establishing and further developing plant-growing practices at european level, given the decreasing number of arable land for food production. unlike the global plant breeding market, which is dominated by a few large multinational companies investing in only a limited number of varieties, the market in europe is very diverse. small and medium-sized enterprises represent a majority and cannot finance all the necessary research themselves. it is emphasized that the european union and the member states should finance research on plant breeding, since the population is projected to grow by 2 billion over the next 40 years, which will affect the growing demand for food and, consequently, lead to increasing productivity. i voted for this report because it looks at ways to provide food for a growing population in the long term and to strengthen the food production system.
written. - the shocking fact is that between 30% and 50% of the food produced in the eu is thrown away. to minimise this unnecessary non-use of food produced, capacity in food storage and distribution systems in developing countries needs to be increased. i supported this motion for a resolution by the european parliament because, according to reports by the un and other international organizations, between 2040 and 2050, the world population is expected to grow to about 10 billion, and the need for food is therefore logically increasing. accordingly, we are aware that drastic climate change is likely to occur in the future and that european agriculture will face major challenges. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the environment and its impact on the environment. it is important to note that croatia has almost one million hectares of potential arable land and can certainly contribute to european agriculture and the plant-growing market.
written. - the world's population is estimated to grow to 9 billion by 2050, which will result in a significant increase in the demand for food, accompanied by climate change. it is our duty to ensure that future generations have sufficient resources in this sector to cope with the challenges ahead. in the near future, new and more adaptable crops will have to be developed, but the current crop mechanism will also have to be better managed, as the large amount of food produced in the european union will not be used because of problems of collection, transport and storage. although croatian food industry companies are among the most successful in our economy and generate the highest revenues and number of employees, over 500 million euros of food is thrown away in the republic of croatia every year, and nowhere is it better - world statistics show that only two thirds of the total food produced is used for food. to overcome these problems, a policy framework for the development of agricultural production with a particular focus on sustainability is needed. i believe that all products must undergo rigorous testing before they are placed on the market in order to detect unexpected side effects in time. while we all aim to strengthen the state of agriculture in the eu, the premature placing of gm products on the market can do more harm than good. it is therefore necessary to launch a thorough debate on the long-term situation in the agricultural sector and to encourage further research.
written. - i supported the report by mep marit paulsen on plant breeding, which aims to increase the production and quality of plants and their products at european and global level. the increase in the world's population will result in a greater demand for food. because of climate change, the cultures we have today will have to adapt to new conditions. the development and testing of new varieties takes a long time, but the safety of the food produced and the protection of human health must be the first consideration. the diversity of cultivated cultures is declining. the commission should also be able to provide information on the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to third countries, in particular in the context of the union's macro-financial assistance to third countries. the problem with the global market is the dominance of a few large multinational companies that invest in only a limited number of varieties. the eu should play a leading role in developing sustainable plant breeding techniques and promoting plant science and breeding. croatia has a lot of uncultivated land that could be used for this purpose. slowly, though still quite slowly, organic farming is becoming popular. incentives should be provided for the cultivation of less popular varieties, which would immediately increase the number of employees.
written. - i voted in favour of this proposal which seeks to initiate a thorough discussion of the overall situation and to examine the situation regarding the cultivation of plants in european and world agriculture. the plant-growing industry is of fundamental importance for productivity, diversity, health and quality of agriculture, horticulture, food and feed production and the environment. it is essential to protect and preserve european biological and genetic diversity, thereby ensuring long-term food security for the world's growing population and the resilience of food production systems. it is necessary to take responsibility at eu level, within the framework of the common agricultural policy, for meeting future challenges in the field of agriculture and plant breeding in europe. i agree with the rapporteur that smes play a major role in the eu seed market and in the plant breeding sector and that we need to ensure that at eu level there is a level playing field for investment in r & d by small companies that could compete with large multinational companies.
written. - i agree and support this report. the aim of this report was to launch a detailed discussion on plant breeding in european and global agriculture. plant breeding is of paramount importance for the productivity, diversity and quality of agriculture. the un estimates that the world's population is growing, and is expected to reach 9 billion by 2040. fao estimates that the increase in food supply will have to increase by 70 percent in the next 30 years. it is a shocking fact that between 30% and 50% of the food produced in the european union is thrown away. we must face these facts as well as the fact that over-cultivated and over-treated soil will become barren. i come from the youngest member state of the european union, where the variety of climate, terrain and soil types allows the production of a wide range of agricultural products, from cash crops and industrial crops to vineyards, continental and mediterranean fruit and vegetables. there is a great potential for further development of agriculture in croatia and i would like to draw attention to the need for joint action and concern for the quality of agriculture and plant breeding in croatia and throughout the european union.
written. - the rapporteur focuses on the very important sector of plant breeding, which i believe should at all times reflect as much as possible the needs of the market. i welcome the rapporteur's proposal to emphasise the need to develop a variety that can cope with the conditions expected over the next 40 years and to react in a timely manner, given that the development of a new variety can take on average 10 years. i also agree with the undeniable fact that the union must take responsibility for increasing agricultural productivity, keeping up with the trend of population growth, and be able to respond effectively to the nutritional challenges of the future. i find the report useful and positive, and i voted in favour.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the railway sector is able to compete effectively with other railway undertakings. the magic words are privatization and liberalization. they scare me, and i'm sure i'm not the only one. the commission argues that a liberalised market, for example in the united kingdom, improves quality, whereas some studies suggest the opposite. private companies still depend on government subsidies, and the profits made go into the pockets of the shareholders and there is no room for infrastructure development. if there is a shift in the quality of services, of course in highly profitable directions, i do not believe that social standards and workers' rights will be guaranteed. the opening of the market will also inevitably lead to the closure of less profitable lines which are of enormous importance to the local population. in my native croatia, the disastrous state of rail transport is not the result of a lack of competition, but of corruption, nepotism and irresponsibility, and above all a lack of strategy.
mr president, it is a tragic but unacceptable fact that on the roads of the european union, 30 000 people are killed in road accidents every year and over a million are seriously or slightly injured. i am proud to say that the first standardised e-invoicing in croatia was implemented on 15 march 2012 and that over 4 000 e-invoicing tests have been carried out so far. by presenting the prestigious european emergency number association award last year in riga, croatia was recognised along with eight other countries for its efforts to promote the improvement of the european emergency number 112. the estimation that up to 2 500 lives could be saved each year by introducing such systems is sufficient evidence that such measures should be given full support. the commission should be able to assess the impact of the measures on the protection of personal data and the protection of privacy in the union.
mr. president, health care has often been seen in the last few decades as a segment that is extremely expensive, requires a lot of investment to have the healthiest society possible, and no matter how much is invested in it, there is always more and there is never enough. as modern medicine has been the primary factor in extending life expectancy, so has the need for health care. such trends will continue, and it may well be that it becomes unsustainable to adequately fund health, especially in poorer countries. it puts our country in front of a choice: either our health care systems adapt to the new reality or we put ourselves in danger of starting to collapse. i therefore welcome the adoption of this action programme which puts the emphasis on a sustainable health system and looks at health not just as a consumer but as a sector with great potential for creating new jobs. i also welcome the emphasis on prevention and the fact that the concrete measures proposed can help us to achieve these objectives.
madam vice-president, i support this report because i consider the subject to be very important in several respects. here i'll try to bring up the most important points from the croatian perspective. in this report, it is important to note that the health sector is one of the largest in the european union and as such employs the largest number of people with a completed higher education degree. given the role of health as the main foundation of the quality of a society, we must not look at health through the prism of profit alone. the sector must provide timely and quality services and provide a healthier and better quality of life for those in need. for that reason, i agree with the compromise reached on the very name of this programme. i particularly welcome the part of the compromise which refers to the greater possibility of withdrawing money from this fund by member states with a lower per capita gross domestic product. according to the croatian medical chamber, the profession of physician is deficient and currently croatia is short of 4 300 doctors. at the same time, the number of croatian doctors who have requested certificates to work abroad during the last six months is 275, and their average age is 37 years. now that this fund can be applied for at national and international level and in the private and public sectors, and co-financing is possible, i hope that this programme will reduce the number of young doctors leaving croatia. otherwise, croatia will have to import this staff from less developed countries, while young specialists in which croatia has invested a lot will continue to go abroad for higher salaries.
madam vice-president, further development of broadband is essential if europe is to become a hub of innovation, knowledge and services. i therefore fully support this report. but to be at the heart of innovation, we must do everything we can to make the best quality services available to the citizens of the union at the most reasonable price. the europe of knowledge and innovation does not start in this high-rise building, nor in the commission building, but in every european home, every kindergarten, school or university. it is here that the future of europe's development and growth resides on a daily basis. they need to have access to the internet at affordable prices for our strategies to work. in particular, in view of the difficulties faced by croatian citizens in relation to the low quality of telecommunications services with relatively high prices and unfavourable contracts with operators, i hereby call on telecommunications service providers operating within the union to behave responsibly and respect the rights of users.
madam vice-president, i support the objectives promoted by this directive because i believe that making public sector bodies' websites more accessible is our obligation to provide citizens with timely and reliable information on the work of the institutions. while there are increasing voices saying that technology is mostly used by the ruling elites to monitor and spy on citizens, i maintain that it advances go very well with democracy and should serve precisely the opposite purpose: to make it easier for citizens to monitor institutions and their work. the union should not only advise the member states but also set the standards and lead the process. in this context, i would like to point out the problem of croatian citizens, who do not have access to the websites of many european institutions, primarily agencies, in their native croatian language. i hereby call on all the institutions of the union that do not have their websites translated into croatian to do so as soon as possible in order to put an end to this exclusion of croatian citizens who find it difficult to find ways of informing about their work.
he is seeking the presidency of the council. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, youth employment is one of the european union's most important priorities today. i also know that this is a matter of high political priority and importance for the european parliament, as many of your recent reports and resolutions have shown. the worrying employment indicators in some member states and regions could have adverse long-term effects. europe must not and cannot lose a whole generation. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. there has been some limited economic recovery in recent months, but it is uneven and relatively fragile and has not contributed to job creation. youth unemployment rates in many member states remain high and urgent action is needed. inaction costs a lot. the cost of youth unemployment - in the short term, but perhaps even more so in the long term - is greater. we all agree on the urgency of dealing with this situation. the european council has dealt with this issue on several occasions over the past two years. it has even stressed the need for specific action. last year, the european council agreed on a number of emergency measures, such as the use of the eur 6 billion for the youth employment initiative in the first two years of its implementation, in order to implement these measures quickly. the european council also called on the member states benefiting from the youth employment initiative to commit to adopting concrete implementation plans by the end of 2013 so as to be able to access the funds available by january 2014 and to support the implementation of the youth employment initiative with immediate effect. in addition, the ministers for employment have discussed extensively targeted actions to promote youth employment at all their recent meetings. the employment, social policy, health and consumer affairs council (epsco) has taken on the role of overall guidance in this area and is closely following developments. i would also like to highlight the work of the employment committee (emco), which has contributed to a better understanding of the policies and programmes implemented by the member states. as regards the implementation of the youth guarantees, the council adopted a recommendation last april calling on member states to ensure that young people receive a good quality job offer, continuing education, as well as an apprenticeship or traineeship, within four months of leaving school or remaining unemployed. this is a very practical objective which the european union and the member states have set themselves to tackle youth unemployment. it is a good example of how the european union can help. we have concentrated our efforts on a specific measure aimed at action at national level. the implementation of the youth guarantees should be supported by a substantial contribution from the european union's resources. it is also a concrete example of how the union can help support actions at national level. the member states, assisted by the commission, are now drawing up their implementation plans. more than half the member states have already submitted their plans. the commission will assess them and offer its contribution. it is, of course, up to the member states to adopt the right policies to offer young people a brighter future. the european union can help and provide financial support, but its action and initiatives alone cannot solve the overall problem. we all know that the present economic situation, although gradually improving, remains difficult. the economic environment is not yet conducive to job creation. much of the problem of youth unemployment today is not structural but cyclical. the aim must therefore be to ensure that the level of structural unemployment among young people will soon be at least equal to, if not lower than, that which existed before the crisis. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one. the first is the european alliance for apprenticeships. this initiative aims to bring together different areas of existing actions under a common framework, promote the benefits of successful apprenticeship projects and encourage ways in which they could be developed. the other initiative currently under discussion is the proposal for a framework for quality practice. we expect it to be adopted in march at the next employment council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am sure that all these measures are helping to reverse the negative trend in youth unemployment rates. however, much more needs to be done, while at the same time the contributions of other policy areas are needed. these include adapting education systems to market needs and facilitating access to finance for small and medium-sized enterprises. it is also important that our economies as a whole return to sustainable growth, which can help create jobs. to achieve this goal, we need to work together and cooperate closely.
member of the commission. - mr president, millions of young people are struggling today to gain a foothold in the european labour market. at present, 5.5 million people in europe under the age of 25 are unemployed and a total of 7.5 million are not in employment, education or training (neets). if we count those aged between 25 and 29 as well, the number of neets rises to over 14 million. urgent action is therefore needed, both to improve the lives of europe’s young generation here and now, and to put a stop to the long-term scarring effects of unemployment at this early stage in people’s working lives. this is why, on the initiative of the commission, the council adopted in april 2013 a recommendation on establishing a youth guarantee, which calls on member states to ensure that all young people under the age of 25 receive either a good-quality offer of employment, an apprenticeship or a traineeship, or the chance to continue their education, within four months of becoming unemployed or leaving formal education. the youth guarantee represents a new, integrated, approach to youth employment, to bring public authorities (employment and education ministries), social partners, ngos, employment services and young people themselves together to tackle the issue in the most efficient and effective way possible. a key facet of the youth guarantee is that it aims to cover all young people, including those who are hardest to help. in order to make this a reality, a serious commitment to outreach work is necessary. so where do we stand today? last june, the european council asked the 20 member states eligible for extra funding under the youth employment initiative to submit youth guarantee implementation plans by december 2013. so far we have received 19 plans. the united kingdom is missing and has promised to submit theirs by the end of february. the eight other member states should submit their implementation plans by the spring of this year. over the last few weeks, the commission has held a series of bilateral meetings with the member states to discuss their plans. our assessment is based on the central elements of the council’s youth guarantee recommendation and, of course, the feasibility for member states to deliver. we are therefore looking for partnership-based approaches; early intervention and activation mechanisms; measures for labour market integration; appropriate and effective use of eu funds; and evaluation mechanisms. as you all know, member states that are eligible for money from the youth employment initiative are required to put in place a strategic policy framework for promoting youth employment, including through implementation of the youth guarantee. this is the so called ex-ante conditionality, whose purpose is to help to ensure the high quality and effectiveness of investments financed from the youth employment initiative and the european social fund. each member state’s youth guarantee implementation plan is therefore expected to be the key part of this strategic policy framework. investing our efforts in the quality of the youth guarantee implementation plans now is important in order for member states to be ready and able to roll out the youth guarantee and effectively utilise the available eu funding. it is also important to get the implementation plans right, otherwise we cannot achieve the intended results. to contribute to the implementation of the youth guarantee – and the provision of quality offers of work opportunities for young people – the commission presented a council recommendation on a quality framework for traineeships. the quality framework proposes guidelines for traineeships outside educational curricula, and aims to ensure fair working conditions and high quality learning content so that traineeships serve as real stepping stones from education to employment. member states are now negotiating the proposal for a council recommendation with a view to achieving adoption by the march council of employment and social affairs ministers. unfortunately, a group of member states seem to disagree with these objectives as they are seeking to water down the proposal. these member states put in question whether the quality framework should deal with working conditions. some do not want to limit the duration of traineeships and some also wish to weaken all references to the implementation of the quality framework. of course this approach is a significant disappointment for me and raises important questions for the future. how to explain such a move in the council when the european council itself had called on the commission to propose a quality framework on traineeships? i therefore call for your support to raise your voice against such a dilution of the initiative. another complementary initiative to support the youth guarantee is the european alliance for apprenticeships launched in july last year. this seeks to improve the quality and supply of apprenticeships across the eu and to change attitudes to apprenticeships by promoting the benefits of apprenticeship systems. i encourage the member states, social partners and businesses to scale up their activities on apprenticeships, including creating more and better places in member states where companies’ commitment to training young people is not yet well developed. so what happens next? the commission’s analysis of member states’ endeavours on the youth guarantee is feeding into the european semester process. the commission is continuing its contacts with member states to ensure they deliver the main axis of the guarantee and therefore may adjust their implementation plans at the latest when submitting their national reform programmes in mid-april. the council of employment and social affairs ministers on 10[nbsp ]march will be an opportunity to discuss implementation of the youth guarantee with ministers, and on 8[nbsp ]april the commission is organising a high-level conference in brussels to take stock of the implementation of the youth guarantee. this will also be an opportunity to highlight the reforms being undertaken as well as the common challenges. the full roll-out of comprehensive youth guarantee schemes will require substantial funding. it is now crucial to proceed with speedy programming of the european social fund and youth employment initiative activities. member states need to take full advantage of the frontloading of the youth employment initiative budget commitments to 2014 and 2015. the common provisions regulation provides the possibility for early adoption of dedicated youth employment initiative operational programmes that can be up and running even before the adoption of the partnership agreement. this opportunity to prepare a dedicated specific operational programme should be seriously considered by member states as it allows time to be saved when addressing youth unemployment challenges through the youth employment initiative. we should also bear in mind that pre-financing may only be released and funding reimbursed to member states once the operational programmes are adopted. this is why swift programming is crucial. but, until the operational programmes are adopted, member states should also consider the fact that the eligibility date for youth employment initiative expenditure is 1[nbsp ]september 2013. therefore, member states could use this opportunity by mobilising national funding for youth employment initiative related activities already now, as the expenditure would be reimbursed subsequently under the adopted operational programmes. yet, while european funds can help, we also need to see national funds being committed to maximise impact and coverage, and really make a difference for young people. to conclude, the implementation of the youth guarantee is proceeding through intensive efforts and we must not relax our high ambitions. i encourage member states to maintain their high level of engagement to make a real difference to the lives of the many young people who are currently struggling.
on behalf of the ecr club. mr president, coming from a country where youth unemployment is at an alarming 52%, i am pleased that parliament and the commission have recognised this burning problem. unfortunately, i'm not sure that these strategies will solve it. while there is probably no better instant solution than approving funding for targeted programs like this, the solution to the youth unemployment problem lies in improving the overall economic picture. in countries like croatia, which have high unemployment rates across all age groups, we will hardly encourage more mass employment of young people as long as the job requires a large number of workers with years of experience. entrepreneurs will always prefer to hire an experienced person than a young person who comes out of the croatian education system without practical knowledge. short-sighted maybe, but from a business perspective, understandable. in croatia, therefore, it is happening as expected, through this program young people are employed in the public sector to satisfy the form, which does not guarantee long-term employment to these people.
question posed by the raising of the blue card mr. president. colleague, you mentioned that the guarantee for the young is not enough, you asked for a faster and stronger reaction. the neighbouring united left club was talking about the need to make monetary policy in the european union more flexible. i was wondering if that's your club's position?
croatia started implementing active employment policy measures and the youth fund on the first day of its accession to the european union, but despite this fact, every second young person in croatia is unemployed, and youth unemployment reached a record high of 55.4% in 2013. in november 2013, the european parliament adopted the multiannual financial framework for the period 2014-2020 and croatia has been granted significant financial resources under the youth guarantee. in the first two years of the new budget period, we have at our disposal eur 66 177 144,00, and this amount is also available from the european social fund to combat the burning problem in the union, but also in croatia. despite record unemployment and the fact that funds from the youth guarantee programme have been available to croatia since 1 january 2014, the fact that the european commission has not yet approved the implementation programme in croatia is worrying, and unemployment is increasing daily. lessons learned from last year's experience, the youth guarantee programme has not delivered the expected results and unemployment has risen. i believe that member states should use the resources available in such a way that young people 'learn to fish, not have fish served to them' because only by stimulating entrepreneurship and innovation can we ensure the prosperity of the union and job growth.
written. the 1999 eu-switzerland agreement on freedom of movement provides that if one part of the agreement is suspended, the whole agreement is abrogated. this is a position the eu must insist on in order to protect the interests of both sides. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, in particular through the european neighbourhood instrument (enpi) and the european neighbourhood instrument (enpi). freedom of movement is one of the four fundamental freedoms of the eu. croatian citizens are already at a disadvantage compared to their eu compatriots, as their rights of movement will be restricted in relation to switzerland, alongside already limited rights in some other eu member states. the damage to many croatian families is immeasurable. the difference between croatia and other eu members must not be on any issue, let alone on freedom of movement!
written. a majority of citizens in one switzerland in the middle of europe refused to validate, via facti, an already agreed model of free movement of people from the eu. i agree that it is not necessary to dramatize, but the situation should, however, be presented in a real light. after the referendum in switzerland on limiting immigration into the country, it is clear that "fortress europe" does not exist as a concept of restrictive treatment of immigrants or freedom of movement only on the eu's eastern borders or on the northern shores of the mediterranean. croatian citizens are at a disadvantage compared to their eu fellow citizens, as their rights of movement will be restricted in relation to switzerland, in addition to already limited rights in some other eu member states. freedom of movement is one of the four fundamental freedoms of the eu, which in this case becomes more important than the others because it has a symbolic dimension in addition to the economic one. of course, discrimination between members is absolutely unacceptable. i therefore welcome the firm position of commissioner lászló andor that both sides must continue to fulfil the obligations of the existing agreements, as expressed today to the members of the european parliament on relations with switzerland. i hope that the development of the situation will not lead to the annulment of all bilateral agreements in the event of non-compliance with one and i expect that the dispute over the ratification of the documents harmonising the relations between the eu and switzerland with the 28th member of the community croatia will be resolved as soon as possible.
written. the outcome of the swiss referendum on mass immigration will leave a mark on the relations between the european union and switzerland, that's for sure. i would like to express my regret that the relationship between the two partners and friends will potentially be disturbed. we must do everything in our power to minimize and then repair the damage as quickly as possible. the values of freedom and democracy should not be defended only in declaration, but it is the task of all of us to do so in practice. the free will of the swiss people to put certain restrictions on their country's immigration policy expressed in a democratic referendum is something that must be respected. the swiss people have the right to run their country as they see fit. the union can and should at this stage revise the signed bilateral agreements with switzerland and bring them into line with the new situation. the hysteria of an election year in which everyone wants to prove themselves to their constituents must be brought under control so that in the long run, it does not disrupt precious friendly relations with switzerland.
i would like to draw attention to rule 146 (1) and (2) of parliament's rules of procedure and express my strong protest at the proposal for a decision extending rule 147 of parliament's rules of procedure. this proposal in paragraph (f) talks about further delaying the full implementation of the croatian language in the work of this institution, which means that the croatian language, although an official language of the union, will continue to be treated as a second language in this house. i cannot agree to that, because i consider that a year from the accession of croatia to the european union to the constituent session of the next convocation of parliament is a sufficient transitional period to ensure full coverage of this institution in croatian.
mr president, yesterday i supported this report because the governance of the single market is a matter of the utmost importance and must be one of the priorities because of the numerous initiatives of the european commission and the european parliament, and with the clear support of the european council. the single market must contribute to economic growth and deliver concrete results for european citizens, consumers and businesses. as i come from croatia, which has big economic problems, big unemployment, big youth unemployment, continuous decline in gdp, croatia is the youngest member of the european union and it has to take advantage of the opportunities in the single market. i believe that there must be coordination of economic and employment policies in order to reduce the economic differences between the northern and southern countries of the european union and to make the european economy as a whole as competitive as possible. i agree that the key markets that need to be improved are the services market, the financial services market, the transportation market, the energy market and the digital market.
mr president, the key sectors defined by the commission are relevant to overall development, but i would certainly stress the importance of the single market in the transport and energy sectors. the unity of the energy sector allows the full application of the principle of competition, while transport connectivity is a necessary prerequisite for exchange and development. in creating a single market, it is important to involve all stakeholders in decision-making processes in a timely manner, first and foremost service providers, government representatives, civil society actors and the involvement of all social partners. only in this way can citizens' rights in the single market be better enforced and its full effect achieved. i support the proposal put forward by sergio gaetano cofferati and i voted for it because it takes care to the elements i have mentioned.
mr president, good governance of the single market is crucial for economic growth and job creation and that is why i supported the report by mr cofferati today. full implementation of the free movement of people, citizens and workers in particular is an important segment of the further integration of the single market. labour market reform involving the creation of a flexible and secure environment is one of the most common recommendations to member states under the european semester. the priority areas of further integration important for the development of the single market are the services sector, the energy sector, the transport sector, the digital single market and the single european industrial policy. the report also stressed the importance of easier access to finance for smes and the reduction of interest rate differentials in the european single market for the further development of a single market where everyone has equal opportunities, which is why i supported it.
mr president, i supported the report by our colleague mr cofferati on the governance of the single market in the european semester 2014 precisely because the single market is one of those main drivers of growth and jobs, that is, the basis of economic integration for sustainable growth in the european union. and in that sense i appreciate the efforts that commissioner barnier has made over the last few years with a series of legislative packages that have been concerned with better governance and the functioning of the single market. key sectors such as services, financial services, transport, the energy sector and the digital market are crucial for the smooth integration and functioning of the single market. i think it will be particularly important for the functioning of our europe 2020 strategy that growth priorities and bridging the gap between strategy and the real economy are put in the right focus, and these are projects like e-pilot, solvit, the right indicators of improvement.
written. - the single market should be defined as the third pillar of the european semester, comprising a clear set of priorities relating to the real economy. i strongly support the commission's efforts to further integrate the single market and parliament's proposal to develop an analytical tool to measure single market integration within the framework of the single market pillar of the european semester against country-specific recommendations. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the measures in question are imputable to the state. by removing barriers to the free movement of persons, goods, services and capital, the single market enables businesses to operate across a wider area, thereby improving their ability to innovate, invest, increase productivity and create jobs. unfortunately, despite strong evidence that the internal market is important for overcoming the crisis, the free movement of workers and professionals in europe is not complete and stronger measures are needed to remove remaining obstacles and to boost growth.
written. - the single market is the foundation of today's european union. companies competing in the single market have unlimited access to nearly 500 million consumers in the eu. the question of the management of the single market is therefore of great importance for the functioning of the eu. in order to maximise the implementation of the programme, the european semester has a major role to play, coordinating member states' policies in order to streamline the process and better align national policy objectives. i agree with the rapporteur that the coordination of single market priorities should be based on a deeper democratic process and that national parliaments should be fully involved, with an emphasis on respecting the competences of the european parliament. in this way, policy harmonisation would be greatly facilitated. i agree with the commission that the services market, financial services, transport, energy and digital markets are key sectors in creating the eu single market. in particular, i welcome the focus on the development of the eu digital market, as the digital economy is the future of global development and has the potential to create a large number of jobs, mainly for young people. i voted for this report.
written. - i support the rapporteur's efforts to call on the commission to establish a more efficient single market based on a market economy and to establish an annual management cycle. i am particularly pleased with the part of the report which expresses the view that national parliaments should take a more proactive role in the work of the semester and that the commission should undergo a detailed consultation and impact assessment before submitting a proposal. i also agree with the finding that the services, financial services, transport, energy and digital sectors are crucial to achieving growth. that's why i voted yes.
written. - madam president, there are two points i would like to make here, and they were also made by our colleague, rapporteur sergio gaetano cofferati, in his speech this morning. first of all, i support the call for the european commission to strengthen the governance of the eu's single market by establishing a specific annual cycle for the governance of the single market. such a cycle is what we need, and as a separate pillar of the european semester: a pillar that should be focused on identifying priority policies and measures to stimulate and revive the real economy. secondly, i want to make it very clear that the free movement of workers is a key precondition for the success of the single market. this freedom has been called into question in some member states in recent months and i believe that we must fight against it with determination and consistency. without freedom of movement, there is no successful market of a united europe! i am glad that mr cofferati is also insisting on this and i very much welcome his report.
written. - we still don't have standardized laws that set minimum rules that apply in all countries. so if a manufacturer tests its product in one eu member state, it should be the same in all. that's not the case now, and it's impeding the free flow of goods, capital and services. the freedom of movement of people is also a huge problem, as waiting periods are still being introduced for other member states. all of this raises the question of whether the single market is just a myth that we use only in the theory of european policies. banks also play a major role in the single market, and unofficial information is circulating that the eu is abandoning stricter regulation of banks, while on the other hand the big countries from which europe's largest banks come are preparing their own rules. so the eu is not even in a position to adopt uniform rules in the banking sector. how is a single market even possible? a well-functioning single market is based on a competitive social market economy, the emphasis is on the social rather than the greedy-capitalist, and only then is growth and development possible. of course, we haven't developed a social market, nor are we trying to. the only strategies that are adopted are those that serve no purpose.
written. - the european union's cohesion policy aims to reduce disparities between regions, the backwardness of disadvantaged regions and economic, social and territorial cohesion, which promotes more balanced and sustainable territorial development. it is a key instrument for achieving the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. the report by mrs savisaar-toomast highlights the fact that problems in the implementation of cohesion policy programmes exist in the member states and vary in intensity. in addition, the member states' reports give a clear overview of the socio-economic challenges they face, citing delays in research and innovation, rail, it services, energy and capacity building. future cohesion programmes should focus on investments that promote growth and jobs, i.e. the creation of new jobs. i support the report and consider it crucial to focus efforts on funding specific areas such as employment, especially youth, education and training, social inclusion, innovation of smes, energy efficiency and the building of ict infrastructure and digitalisation.
written. - the commission's seventh and eighth progress reports show that the development gap between europe's regions has widened as a result of the economic and financial crisis that hit most eu member states in 2008. in order to achieve the triple objective of economic growth (smart, sustainable and inclusive growth), based on research and innovation, the optimal and rational use of europe's energy resources and potential, and a proactive policy of job creation, the commission shall take action within the framework of the objectives of cohesion policy. the report concluded, however, that transition regions and rce regions should continue their efforts to meet the objectives of the eu's europe 2020 strategy, and that interaction between cities and regions should be strengthened because of the mutual interest in achieving regional growth. i support this report which aims to support the continued monitoring of the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy as it highlights that the dependence of some member states and regions on cohesion policy is a concern and recommends investing in infrastructure projects to reduce regional disparities and the impact of the crisis on groups at risk of poverty.
written. - the european union's cohesion policy is a lever for sustainable eu economic growth and a key instrument of the union in achieving the europe 2020 agenda. i therefore supported this report and welcome the positive effects of the same in many regions and member states. but while we are seeing an acceleration in the implementation of cohesion policy, i believe it is extremely important to look at cases of non-implementation of programmes within a given period and to understand the problems faced by individual regions in order to facilitate the continued implementation of programmes. i therefore agree that it is important to take into account the needs of many less developed regions, which are those most in need of investment aid. i am in favour of strengthening the territorial dimension of the cohesion policy management system to ensure real dialogue and coordination between different levels of governance and thus contribute to the success of the europe 2020 strategy.
written. - i support the progress reports on cohesion policy and the 2013 strategic report on the previous programming period. the reports identify the problem of the impaired global competitiveness of the european economy as a result of the recession period. national restrictive fiscal policies were necessary in such circumstances, but the effects of the economic contraction will be felt for years, and the adequacy of public funds for the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy is uncertain. i am concerned about the distorted social image of citizens in the less developed countries and regions of the eu and i would like to take this opportunity to draw attention to the importance of not imposing economic sanctions on such countries. the dependence of some countries' economic development on the means of cohesion policy cannot be ignored, since the global competitiveness of the european economy depends on these countries, and i therefore call for the principle of solidarity to be strictly respected in the new cohesion policy programming period. the more than eur 8 billion of available funds in the period up to 2020 is crucial for croatia's economic development. i believe that cohesion policy in croatia can be a good driver of economic activity by stimulating youth employment and the labour market and promoting a sustainable economy and growth.
written. - cohesion policy, or as we also call it, solidarity policy, is the second most generous part of the european budget and aims to reduce regional inequalities and make economic development sustainable in the context of globalisation and more dynamic growth of all eu regions, especially nuts ii regions. in order to obtain a complete and clear picture of the progress made in the implementation of cohesion policy and towards the objectives set and to draw clear lessons from the past, the maximum involvement of the member states is necessary in the form of data collection, monitoring and evaluation, which should be based on reliable data. i therefore support the report by mr savisaar-toomast on the commission's seventh and eighth progress reports on eu cohesion policy and the 2013 strategic report on the implementation of the 2007-2013 programme and consider it necessary to focus efforts and increase investment at regional and local level in important areas such as job creation, smes, employment (especially youth), labour mobility, training, research, sustainable transport, environment. the financial envelope for the period 2014-2020 provides for approximately eur 8,092 billion for cohesion policy for croatia, and bearing in mind that we are a new member state and given the current bad economic situation, we are faced with a challenge.
written. - i supported this report and i generally agree with the rapporteur's views on the progress of eu cohesion policy. the economic and social crisis has halted a positive trend in which regional disparities within the union were decreasing before the crisis started, while at the same time hitting the weaker regions the hardest. cohesion policy as a source of public investment, especially at local and county level, accounts for more than half of all public investment in a large number of member states. i agree with the rapporteur's assessment that in times of crisis, the budgets of local and county authorities are not sufficient for development and infrastructure projects, and that local communities should therefore count the resources of the cohesion funds into their development plans and use their development benefits. i strongly support the view taken in this report that the commission and the member states should increase investment in entrepreneurship, business start-up and self-employment and, like the rapporteur, i welcome the social component of cohesion policy, which promotes family values (in particular large families and pro-natal policies), and the protection and care of mothers, especially single mothers and older people.
written. - i support this report because we know that cohesion policy is the second most important common policy of the european union in terms of financial importance. for the financial period 2007-13, it amounted to eur 308 billion out of eur 864.3 billion of the total eu budget. the political significance of cohesion is crucial to the project of a united europe. from an initial emphasis on achieving a balanced development within the eu, the objective of cohesion policy has gradually shifted towards strengthening the global competitiveness of the european economy. the european council endorsed the europe 2020 strategy, which sets out the key objectives the eu wants to achieve by 2020. cohesion policy in the future comes after the great economic and financial crisis. the big challenge ahead is how to get the economy going and ensure that the economy recovers and returns to growth rates. the widening of regional inequalities is slowing down the development of cohesion policy and shows that the problems are much more pronounced in some eu countries. future cohesion programmes must place particular emphasis on reducing these disparities and creating new jobs. i come from croatia, which is at the very top of europe in terms of unemployment rate of 21.6% (383 000) and youth unemployment rate of a devastating 52%. that is why i consider this subject to be extremely important and the focus on cohesion policy must be maximised.
written. - i commend the rapporteur for a very realistic and balanced report which takes account of the commission's 7th and 8th progress reports and the 2007-2013 strategic report. i fully agree with the rapporteur's thesis that cohesion policy has been significantly undermined by the economic, financial and social crisis, which has not only halted the progress of those member states of the union with weaker economic indicators, but has actually further widened the gaps in gdp and unemployment between the richer and poorer eu member states. i particularly welcome the call of the empl committee, of which i am a full member, to promote the principle of subsidiarity in the implementation of the union's cohesion policy, by calling for it to be addressed most effectively at local and regional level. that's why i voted yes.
written. - the current context of economic and social crisis has particularly serious consequences for the outermost regions of the european union and appropriate measures need to be taken in the forthcoming planning period. the unique feature of the outermost regions is that, although they are both inside and outside the union, they form a whole which should be supported and promoted through the implementation of common policies, the creation of new jobs and tax and customs instruments to promote the economic base. i believe that the outermost regions have potential in the areas of biodiversity management and conservation, climate change adaptation and the development of renewable energy sources. i therefore welcome the synergy with the life+ programme, which aims to co-finance innovative projects for environmental protection for the period 2014-2020. i also support the synergies with horizon 2020, which supports research, innovation and technological development, and the commission's decision to include the outermost regions in the trans-european networks with the aim of connecting them to the european continent. i welcome mr omarajee's proposal to develop the potential of the outermost regions to strengthen economic and social development in a sustainable way. i also support article 349, which allows the outermost regions to find a place in the union programmes that are theirs.
written. - the objective of this report is to optimise the potential of the outermost regions and to increase their inclusion in eu programmes, in particular europe 2020 and horizon 2020. the eu's policy towards the outermost regions has so far been based on providing basic support through various cohesion policies and agricultural and fisheries support, so a new approach is needed that will encourage sustainable development in these regions through eu investment in new areas and expand opportunities beyond existing frameworks. this would include the areas of tourism, renewable energy, telecommunications, biodiversity, research (seismology and volcanology) and innovation (aerospace). the outermost regions suffer from housing shortages and high unemployment, and therefore transport links and communication networks with the rest of europe need to be improved in order to stimulate job creation and to consider financial resources and investment so as not to hamper further development. i support this report because in future the common agricultural policy, the common fisheries policy and the internal market rules should take greater account of the specific geographical, geo-economic and climatic characteristics of the outermost regions. this would also be possible through stronger involvement in european programmes such as the erdf, life+ and erasmus programmes, otherwise the desired smooth and facilitated integration into the eu will not be feasible.
written. - i supported this report because we need a new, proactive approach to the spanish, portuguese and french outermost regions. the commission will continue to support the development of the outermost regions in the context of the union's external policy, in particular through the european regional development fund (erdf). the european union is based on convergence and it is unacceptable to keep these regions on the margins, and in this regard the objective of increasing the mobility of students from these regions and their inclusion in european student exchange programmes is particularly important.
written. - i support this report and agree with the view of the committee on regional development that the success of the different eu strategies requires the alignment and complementarity of the structural funds and the funds for investment in the outermost regions, thus enabling these regions to participate on an equal footing in the challenges of the competitive eu market. the outermost regions do not attract sufficient support for funding within eu funds and programmes due to limited capacities, but assistance to such regions is of great importance to member states and local populations. such regions are often excluded from priority transport, telecommunications and energy corridors and thus deprived of funding from the connecting europe facility. in 2013, croatia became a new member of the eu, bringing more than 1 100 islands and a strategically important eu extraterritorial area in the south of croatia to the union. i hereby invite the european commission to accept the croatian project to connect the extra-territorial part of croatia by a footbridge in order to bring the southern, strategically important part of croatia out of traffic isolation, thus fulfilling the criterion for croatia's entry into the schengen area. i would also like to stress the importance of adjusting the classification of regional airports and welcome the new positive commission position which allows financial aid to small regional airports under the new guidelines.
- we support this report and propose a change of approach to the eu's most remote regions to enable these regions to develop sustainably and to be included in common european union programmes. we must go to the farthest regions and raise awareness of the need to contribute to a world where there is no hope. we are investing in the future of the european union as a whole. the regions of the union are very often the target of major projects which have structural and material objectives which affect the union and its regions. it is very common for the geographical distance between the regions of the european union to be increased by peripheral signs. such an approach must be changed and the european union must be committed to the integration of all its parts. the trade policy, external policy and development policy of the union shall not be considered to be overseas countries and territories governed by or having a significant impact on the union. overseas countries and territories are producing more than the union in the world, their economic interests cannot be continually sacrificed to the benefit of continental interests. we are committed to our task not only of protecting europe's regions, but above all of promoting them and making them successful.
written. - i voted against this proposal because i believe it is discriminatory to give certain advantages to the outermost regions of france, spain and portugal. i would like to take this opportunity to express my regret that such an unfair approach finds its basis in the treaty on the functioning of the european union itself. each member state has to deal with the challenges and problems associated with its isolated regions, or those cut off or poorly connected to the rest of europe, and that is why i am in favour of a comprehensive approach to such regions and against the preferential treatment of archipelagos, islands and isolated regions in the amazon rainforest. the comprehensive approach should take into account, of course, the so-called outermost regions, but also island regions and mountainous and sparsely populated regions of the mainland of the european union, and any additional efforts that might assume the remoteness or special situation of the outermost regions should be undertaken and borne by the member states to which they belong.
written. - the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu) has added a new discharge instrument - the evaluation of union financing on the basis of the results achieved. the evaluation tool is intended to identify and explain the results and effects of the procedures and to find alternative solutions. the instrument would thus contribute to decision-making and thus further improve the procedure. the commission shall draw up an annual report in this respect on the basis of article 318 of the treaty. i think it is important to point out that the budgetary authority should have a clear view each year of the extent to which the union's main objectives have been achieved. this view can be obtained first by evaluating the main financial programmes, then by cross-evaluating the programme statements on operational expenditure. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 264 concerning the establishment of a european data protection supervisor. i am also of the opinion that the commission's assessment should serve as a source of information and encouragement to the court of auditors. in conclusion, i support this report and would like to encourage the commission to use specific information on member states' achievements in its future assessment of the union's financial performance.
written. - i supported the report on the evaluation of union financing, which added a new instrument to the existing budget relief tools, namely the evaluation of the european union's financing to date on the basis of the results achieved in financing through the funds. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 264 concerning the establishment of a european data protection supervisor. the commission should explain in a simple and concise manner how eu expenditure contributes to the achievement of the europe 2020 objectives and the objectives of its flagship initiatives. in these circumstances, the evaluation report will be the missing link between the evaluation and the audit and i have supported it with particular care.
the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 concerning the conditions for the participation of the union in the work of the european parliament and of the council. on 3 july 2013, parliament requested the commission to set up a working group composed of representatives of the commission, parliament, the council and the court of auditors to examine the measures for the implementation of the budget on the basis of results and to draw up an action plan in this regard. this would link the financial objectives to the union's objectives. the commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market if it is granted to the beneficiary in accordance with the conditions laid down in article 107 (3) (c) of the treaty. i support the rapporteur's proposal that the commission should include information on the achievements of member states in its reports and insist on the unification of the templates at global level and their linkage with the objectives of the eu 2020 strategy. the court of auditors should monitor the progress made by the commission in the risk creation and management and internal control processes and make recommendations if any shortcomings are identified.
in writing. - we agree to draw up a report on the evaluation of the union's finances on the basis of the results obtained. i have been working in education for a long time and i consider it an educational tool to determine and explain the results. in this context, we must distinguish between the evaluation and audit of financial results and the performance, in the light of the evaluation by the managing bodies, of the audit by the auditors. the aim is to identify and understand the results of the study, if necessary, and to identify alternatives to the study. in view of the economic and financial crisis in which some member states of the european union, including croatia, are currently engaged, i consider this term to be particularly important and i think that the evaluation of the financing of the union and the results of the evaluation are very important.
written. - i support this european parliament resolution because it sets out the basic principles that the commission should follow when drawing up the impact assessment report provided for in article 318 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, which gives parliament the opportunity to better exercise its power of political control over the work of european public authorities. i also welcome the resolution on the commission's position in its latest report on the evaluation of european union finances, which took account of certain recommendations made by parliament in the context of the discharge decisions. on the other hand, i share the concern and regret that in many areas eu programmes are not sufficiently performance-oriented but focus on respecting the rules.
written. - i am pleased that, at a time when the european parliament and the other institutions of the european union have been subjected to scrupulous cost analysis by the media, we ourselves are showing the continuity of the political will to manage our finances better and more responsibly, both at union level in general and in each of our individual programmes and in each of our joint activities. the report by mr michael theurer is a positive step towards better management of common finances, as it introduces a new instrument for assessing the overall finances of the european union in the discharge area. this new instrument is based on results achieved and this, compared to the old practices, is not only encouraging but also commendable, positive and good. it is becoming increasingly clear that our common problem is not how to allocate more budgetary money to a particular programme or activity, but how to spend the money we have decided to allocate to a programme or activity as efficiently and effectively as possible. in other words, we are faced with the problem of not throwing our common money away, but of spending it in an orderly way, aimed at quality and achieving the pre-set objectives as successfully as possible. the new instrument for evaluating union finances should contribute to improving the successful implementation of our budget and i was therefore very pleased to support this report.
mr president, i supported the proposal to introduce an interoperable e-call system which requires that all cars manufactured after october 2015 must have devices connected to the single european union emergency number, 112, which will automatically alert this number for emergencies in the event of an accident. according to the commission, e-call can speed up the response of emergency services by 40% in urban areas and by 50% in rural areas. these are significant increases that can certainly be of great help in saving lives. today, less than 1% of vehicles are equipped with e-calling, and that's mostly luxury cars. rapid access to emergency care must be the right of all, not just the rich. every year 28 000 people die on european roads, and the price of this device for the manufacturer is 50 euros, and i think that's a small price to pay for potentially saving lives.
mr. chairman, today less than 1% of transportation is equipped with e-prospect. in addition to the need to develop emergency centres and make e-calling mandatory in new means of transport, the european commission has decided to oblige member states to adapt their operations and enable e-calling in all vehicles by 2015. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 264 concerning the conditions for the use of the information referred to in paragraph 1 of this article. the republic of croatia has experience with the introduction of the ecall service and call centre and this is in place in our country, along with the czech republic and romania, and this system was introduced voluntarily. our experience shows that the introduction of an interoperable e-call system is extremely important for saving lives and i was pleased to support this report today.
written. - according to data available for 2012, 1.1 million accidents occurred on european roads, killing around 28 000 people and injuring over 1.5 million. to deal with these black numbers, the e-call system has been introduced in vehicles to respond more quickly to emergency calls. in croatia, the total number of road accidents and fatalities decreased in the first quarter of 2013 compared to the same period in 2012, and i believe that the full implementation of the e-call system would contribute to achieving our target of reducing fatalities by 50% by 2020. saving lives is imperative, and i therefore welcome mr de backer's report as it aims to ensure full compatibility, interoperability and consistency of this service across the eu.
written. - this report deals with the technical proposals and standards for the introduction of e-call throughout the european union. vehicles equipped with ecall or e-call devices will automatically direct the call to the emergency number in the event of an accident, most commonly 112. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a decision on the extension of the scope of the ecall system to include the european union. the ecall in-vehicle system shall be capable of receiving and transmitting the following signals: furthermore, the establishment of the call will be free of charge for users. the automated call is estimated to reduce response time by 60% within the settlement and 50% outside. in addition to saving lives, ecall services will allow for better traffic management at the accident site and thus prevent possible secondary accidents. i support this proposal and hope that in its first revision we will be able to deal with increased statistics of lives saved.
written. - taking into account the statistics on the number of deaths and injuries in road accidents across the union and the response time of emergency services, i supported this proposal, as it is of the utmost importance for road safety to implement the eu-wide ecall system. in order to ensure full operational capability of the service, it is important to establish specifications for the upgrade of the infrastructure of the security call access points necessary for the proper reception and handling of ecalls. the commission should also encourage member states, telecom operators and vehicle manufacturers to help develop and implement the service, thereby improving road safety on eu roads. furthermore, this service is intended for all citizens of the union and, as not all citizens are familiar with the use of the service, i believe that campaigns should be carried out as soon as possible at national and regional levels, organised by the commission and the member states, to explain to citizens the benefits, functions and data protection guarantees of the new system.
written. - i welcome this initiative to use new technologies to increase the safety of european union citizens on the road. the ecall system is a step forward in terms of ensuring citizens' safety, and i am extremely proud that the republic of croatia has also played an important role in its creation. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and to monitor the implementation of the new rules and regulations, including the implementation of the new rules on the protection of personal data.
in writing. - a couple years ago, ecall was introduced to society and an attempt was made for it to be on voluntary basis. this voluntary approach did not work, because only 0.7 % of vehicles are currently equipped with an ecall system. the commission decided to adopt legislation to make ecall a mandatory service in new vehicles. the european parliament suggested that ecall should be a public eu-wide, emergency call system, embedded in the vehicle and based on the 112 emergency number. the commission agreed with the parliament report. ecall will be installed in all vehicles, starting with certain categories, and with the capability for handling ecalls in the telecommunication networks. this will make it available to all citizens in europe. it will accelerate the deployment and bring about the full potential of ecall in order to save lives and reduce the severity of injuries. in order to finish implementation of the ecall strategy, it is necessary to recommend to the member states to encourage mobile network operators to support the transmission of ecalls. it is of crucial importance mandatorily to introduce in-vehicle parts of the ecall service in new types of approved vehicles in selected categories in europe.
written. - i support the conclusion of the political dialogue and cooperation agreement between the eu and the central american republics mentioned above, as it confirms the objective of strengthening the relations between the two. the political dialogue will cover issues of common interest as well as other international issues. the agreement is particularly important in helping to fight for political and social stability and poverty reduction in the context of sustainable development. it would also consolidate the political dialogue and economic cooperation process and strengthen the existing cooperation frameworks. for these reasons, i call for the ratification of the agreement by all member states.
written. - i agree with the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement on political dialogue and cooperation between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the republics of costa rica, el salvador, guatemala, honduras, nicaragua and panama, of the other part. the agreement between the european union and central america on political dialogue and cooperation was signed in rome on 15 december 2003. the novelty of this proposal is only a reformulation of certain parts while there has been little change in substance. this political dialogue and cooperation agreement consolidates political dialogue and economic cooperation between the parties to the agreement, promotes sustainable development for all stakeholders including civil society and the private sector. it also advocates cooperation in areas of common interest such as regional integration, poverty reduction and social cohesion, security and stability, conflict prevention and conflict resolution, human rights, democracy, the fight against corruption, the fight against terrorism, the prevention of drug trafficking, etc. i think these issues are important for the european union and i support agreements with other countries that we can help solve common challenges and problems.
written. - i agree with the recommendation of my colleague, ms weber, to the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, which supports and calls for a vote in favour of the agreement on political dialogue and cooperation between the eu and the central american republics. one of the objectives of that agreement is to establish cooperation on migration issues with a particular focus on issues related to the mutual reception of illegal migrants. for that reason, i support this report and the report by my colleague, mr salafranco sanchez-neyra, who has reported on matters relating to the committee on foreign affairs.
written. - i agree with the agreement on political dialogue and cooperation between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the republics of costa rica, el salvador, guatemala, honduras, nicaragua and panama, of the other part. the agreement between the european union and central america on political dialogue and cooperation was signed in rome on 15 december 2003. the novelty of this proposal is only a reformulation of certain parts while there has been little change in substance. this political dialogue and cooperation agreement consolidates political dialogue and economic cooperation between the parties to the agreement, promotes sustainable development for all stakeholders including civil society and the private sector. this text covers many aspects of cooperation: political dialogue, social and economic cooperation, culture, education, environment, consumer protection, health and scientific cooperation, etc. however, here the focus is on article 49 (3) which talks about reciprocal readmission of illegal immigrants. the readmission agreements are a key tool to ensure the effective management of illegal migration. i agree with this proposal and support it.
written. - while it does not introduce any changes with respect to the previous framework, i support this recommendation because i consider it necessary to continue the european union's efforts to strengthen political dialogue and develop economic cooperation with the central american countries, and in particular to achieve common objectives in areas such as the fight against poverty, regional security and stability, the prevention of military conflicts, the fight against corruption, illegal immigration and drug and arms trafficking. that's why i voted for this recommendation.
written. - i support the report on the proposal for a council decision on guidelines for the employment policies of the member states. the activities of the member states in implementing the guidelines are important for achieving the europe 2020 objectives and ultimately for the economic recovery of both the european union as a whole and of each member state. in the republic of croatia, unemployment reached 17%, meaning that 378,284 people are out of work. i would like to highlight the high unemployment among young people in the european union, but also in croatia. with youth unemployment at 52%, croatia ranks third in europe, just behind greece and spain. i believe that each member state should adhere to the guidelines set in order to create the conditions for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth accompanied by high levels of employment, productivity and social cohesion. in my speech in october 2013, when there was talk of reconceptualizing education, which was voted on the day after my speech, i said, and i now emphasize again, that it is necessary to align the education system with the needs of the labor market in order to increase the percentage of highly educated people in precisely the demanded activities of the labor market. in this way, we will ensure economic growth in all member states, reduce the number of europeans who are pushed into poverty by unemployment and comply with the guidelines on employment policies in the member states.
written. - in 2010, the council supported the commission's proposal to develop and launch a new strategy for jobs and growth based on enhanced economic policy coordination and focusing on key areas where action is needed to increase the potential for sustainable development and competitiveness. i support the objective of maintaining the same employment guidelines adopted in 2010 by commission decision 2010/707/eu concerning the employment policies of the member states in 2014. i believe that reforms of education systems are crucial for the european union's progress and its competitiveness in the global market. in the period after the accession of croatia to the european union, measures of an active employment policy have been further developed, taking into account in particular the increased needs of both the unemployed, especially young people, and employers, in line with the european strategic documents in the field of employment, in particular the europe 2020 strategy. the european union should provide additional advisory and financial assistance for the structural reforms that individual member states must implement in order to qualify young people for future occupations during their education. for example, high school exchange programmes and practices should be strengthened, following the example of the successful erasmus+ programme. in addition to regular education, it is necessary to provide for retraining and to establish a european list of surplus and deficit professions which must be visible in primary and secondary schools throughout the european union.
written. - i supported the report by mep pervenche berès which aims to improve the implementation of the growth and jobs strategy. it is important that countries adhere to the guidelines that provide guidance for further economic reforms. the draft national reform programmes of the member states contained in the joint employment report, adopted by the council on 28 february 2013, indicate that member states should continue to make efforts to address the following priorities: increasing labour market participation and reducing structural unemployment, developing a skilled workforce that takes into account labour market needs, promoting quality employment, improving education and training systems at all levels, and promoting social inclusion and poverty reduction. the guidelines are also important for croatia, which is in a difficult situation due to the large number of unemployed, which is 370 000. measures to help tackle this problem and move towards sustainable growth accompanied by high levels of employment, productivity and social cohesion need to be taken as soon as possible.
written. - i support this report and the guidelines for the employment policies of the member states. the republic of croatia is at the very top of the european union in terms of unemployment at 21.6% (over 382 000) and youth unemployment at a staggering 52%. i have just organised a conference called 'how to help young people get into the workplace?' to identify key issues and help young people find work. the european union needs to develop a high-quality employment strategy in order to achieve the objectives set out in the europe 2020 strategy. we need to focus on sustainable development accompanied by an increase in the number of employees and increased productivity and social cohesion. it is the task of all member states that are in economic and financial trouble, but it is also the task of the european union as a whole to reduce the differences that exist today between member states. we must act quickly and efficiently, because that is the only way to achieve the objectives we have set.
in writing. - i believe that employment legislation should be decided at national level and all european union initiatives must respect the principles of subsidiarity. however, as these guidelines do not contain a legislative proposal, i voted in favour since i hope that these guidelines can help the croatian government reduce the extremely high rate of unemployment and improve the general economic situation in croatia.
written. - i would like to stress once again the importance of tackling unemployment in a coordinated way at european level, first and foremost by aligning our public policies on growth, promoting competitiveness, sustainable development and, above all, job creation. when i speak of a coordinated approach, i am not referring only to the intensive interinstitutional cooperation of the european commission, the council of the european union and the european parliament, but in particular to the cooperation that individual member states will have with the three institutions of the european union. it is essential that they align their employment policies with the economic guidelines that are in line with the europe 2020 development strategy, in particular by taking into account the key objectives proposed by the commission in this development strategy and strongly supported by the european parliament. this is primarily about economic policies that aim for smart, sustainable and inclusive development, accompanied by high employment, production and social cohesion. i believe that the council guidelines will help member states to define their employment policies in a way that is geared towards effectively dealing with the consequences of the economic crisis. despite the good guidance, it is crucial that individual member states approach the implementation of the above-mentioned guidelines with sufficient political will, especially when it comes to structural reforms. without that, there will be no results.
written. - of course, any initiative that can result in further employment should be supported, but neither this nor previous strategies play a very important role, nor is anyone concerned with them. experts in many countries are far from the place where they could do anything. a major recommendation for future strategies would be to give a chance to professionals who can implement reforms and create new jobs. this document is just to show that we follow the statistics and we know how many unemployed people are where and that we are very concerned and aware that something needs to change. giving guidance to member states does not achieve anything. croatia is unfortunately the third largest unemployed country in the eu and unfortunately i think it will be for a long time, and this debate today will not help croatia or spain and probably not greece. the eu must decide whether the employment field is the sole responsibility of the member states or whether the eu will intervene if necessary, but then these cannot be guidelines.
written. - tax revenues are the most important in the structure of total revenues in the state budget, and the most important tax revenue is the value added tax, which accounts for 21% of tax revenues. vat revenues could be even higher if a more efficient system of tax collection were in place to prevent and eliminate fraud. the current situation of flexibility in vat filing by member states leads to problems in the harmonisation of those rules and procedures with the filing of vat returns in the union. for this reason, i believe that the proposed introduction of the standard vat return will indeed contribute to the efficiency of vat collection, the relief of business operators and the better functioning of the internal market. the standard tax return is a step forward towards a tax system based on the principles of equality and fairness.
written. - value added tax is on average 21% at eu level. the commission's proposal for a more efficient way of calculating and collecting taxes is therefore welcome. the proposed solutions take into account the need to reduce the business sector and to allow for the stability of the eu internal market. the commission proposal, which only makes minimal changes to this report, will reduce administrative practices related to tax collection, saving €15 billion a year. this is a welcome relief to the budgets of the eu member states.
written. - value added tax is an indirect tax that is ultimately borne by the final consumer. it is charged as a percentage of the price paid by the buyer to the seller and is collected by means of instalments. the value added tax does not apply to goods or services sold for export. however, the value added tax applies to imports. the commission established the volume of imports on the basis of the data provided by the sampled union producers. i support the commission's proposal to amend the directive on the introduction of standard vat refunds, which aims to increase the efficiency of vat collection, and which is estimated to reduce the administrative burden associated with vat collection by up to eur 15 billion in a calendar year. this will be possible, inter alia, by limiting the information requirements on what is actually needed for the control and collection of vat, and the proposal strikes a reasonable and proportionate balance between the need to reduce the burden on business and to remove obstacles to the proper functioning of the internal market.
written. - i support this report on the common system of value added tax with regard to vat refunds. the value added tax in croatia is one of the highest in the european union and amounts to 25%. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the compatibility of the aid with the internal market. value added tax represents about 21% of total tax revenues in the member states of the european union, while as much as 12% of value added tax revenues remain unpaid. so i think we need to build a more efficient vat refund system to reduce fraud to the lowest possible level. this proposal harmonises the vat refund system in the member states of the european union, reduces the costs for tax authorities and taxpayers and greatly simplifies the procedure.
written. - i support the commission's efforts to save taxpayers' money, and so this proposal is in line with that. the proposal introduces a standardised vat return for all union business operators which could result in an estimated fascinating saving of eur 15 billion per year. the savings are based on reducing administrative costs, facilitating the payment, refund and control of vat and developing an online application that saves time, reduces the possibility of errors and increases the control capacity of the member states of the union. i consider the proposal extremely positive and have supported it.
written. - according to european commission estimates, value added tax (vat) represents approximately 21% of the tax revenues of individual eu member states and is an extremely important element of the state budget of each of our community members. given the importance of this specific tax, it is essential to strengthen controls on its declaration and to prevent the tax fraud and systematic tax evasion already seen. in his proposals, mr strejček, while respecting the principle of subsidiarity, made a good point of how we can improve the vat declaration system and pointed out the advantages of the standard vat declaration proposed by the european commission. of particular importance are the advantages that, in times of economic crisis, but also in the years to come, such a system can contribute to savings in the national budget of each individual member state, and thus in the budget of the european union. the three amendments proposed by mr strejček to clarify and improve the original proposal of the european commission are an additional reason for supporting this report. i congratulate him on a job well done.
in writing. - i support this amending decision. the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu), which applies to the outermost regions of the eu and includes the autonomous region of madeira and the autonomous region of the azores, does not in principle allow any difference between the taxation of local products and the taxation of products from portugal or other member states. however, there is a possibility of introducing specific measures for those regions because of the permanent handicaps which affect the economic and social conditions. in the past, the european council authorised portugal, up to 31[nbsp ]december[nbsp ]2013, to apply a reduced rate of excise duty in the autonomous region of madeira, on locally produced and consumed rum and liqueurs, and in the autonomous region of the azores, on locally produced and consumed liqueurs and eaux-de-vie. the reasons for this include the small production size, its fragmented nature and low mechanisation of agricultural holdings. the portuguese authorities have requested the renewal of the authorisation until 31[nbsp ]december[nbsp ]2020. i agree with the amending decision, and i think we should help regions with economic and social difficulties.
in writing. - the provisions of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu) which apply to the outermost regions of the eu, including french overseas departments (doms), do not allow any difference in the doms between the taxation of local products and the taxation of products from metropolitan france. however, article 349 tfeu provides specific measures for those regions because of permanent handicaps which are constantly affecting economic and social conditions. in the past, the european council authorised france to apply exemptions or reductions to the dock dues tax for certain products produced in the overseas departments of guadeloupe, guyana, martinique and réunion. the reasons for this were remoteness, raw material and energy dependence, the obligation to build up larger stocks, etc. mayotte was added to the list of outermost regions in article 349 tfeu. the proposal aims to ensure that mayotte is treated in the same way as the other french outermost regions with regard to vat and excise duties. i agree with this, and i think we should help regions with economic and social difficulties.
written. - i welcome the report by mrs gomes on the comprehensive partnership and cooperation agreement between the eu and indonesia with a view to regulating their relations. in addition to the objectives of common interest identified in the report, such as strengthening political, economic and sectoral cooperation, it is particularly important to further strengthen bilateral and regional cooperation related to global challenges. as an example of a global challenge in this sense, i would highlight the fight against climate change where the rapporteur recognises the key role of indonesia and the eu. i welcome indonesia's growing role in the international climate change negotiations. i commend indonesia's efforts to move closer to democracy and the eu's core values after more than three decades of authoritarian military rule, as well as developing democratic governance and fighting corruption. however, the use of the death penalty, sectarian violence and discrimination against members of religious and ethnic minorities are of concern and i believe that there is a need to strengthen the human rights dialogue between indonesia and the eu. the commission's communication on the implementation of the convention on the elimination of all forms of discrimination against women, adopted on 14 december, sets out the main challenges facing the union in the field of gender equality, including the need to ensure that the convention is fully implemented. indonesia is a country with great potential and i support this report which aims to strengthen cooperation.
written. - i supported this agreement because the european union and the republic of indonesia need to strengthen political and economic cooperation and encourage further strengthening of bilateral relations. indonesia is the fourth most populous country in the world with over 240 million citizens and has been undergoing democratic, political, social and economic transformation for the past 15 years. indonesia has the largest economy in southeast asia (gdp has grown by more than 6% in the last two years), more than half of the world's trade passes through its northern maritime borders, and indonesia is increasingly present in the diplomatic field in regional and global forums. i would like to commend the progress indonesia has made in developing democracy, but the situation is deteriorating in the area of the rule of law, human rights and a high level of corruption. i believe that the eu and indonesia need to strengthen cooperation based on shared principles of equality, mutual respect and mutual benefit in trade, industrial policy, environment, climate change, energy, science, technology, tourism, culture and that they need to jointly fight corruption and organised crime.
written. - i express my support for the report by mrs gomes on the issues relating to readmission under the eu-indonesia comprehensive partnership and cooperation agreement. the readmission clause is important to me because it aims to ensure the efficient management of migration flows and thus help in the fight against illegal migration. the eu and indonesia have agreed to extend the readmission of the eu nationals to indonesia. the commission has also provided a report on the implementation of the return policy in indonesia, which was submitted to the european parliament and the council on 14 november 2015. the return of persons to indonesia should be subject to the conditions laid down in the relevant provisions of the law of the member state of return.
written. - i welcome the report by mrs sommer because securing the european union's borders is of paramount importance to all its citizens and the responsibility must be on all the institutions and all the member states. given that the land route through turkey and greece is currently the most frequently used for the transit of migrants and refugees from many countries to the european union, i welcome the signing of the agreement with turkey on the readmission of persons staying in eu countries without authorisation. multiple benefits to both sides. the agreement will provide turkey with financial and technical support to build border police and install surveillance systems, which will contribute to better border security with neighbouring countries. as the signing of the agreement on the reception of persons residing in the union has triggered discussions on the liberalisation of the visa regime for turkish citizens, i would also like to address this topic. the visa liberalisation action plan is a gradual and demanding process. i think there's still a lot of room for improvement. some areas where this is certainly needed are: freedom of speech, freedom of the press, independence of the judiciary, and freedom of religion. turkey is the country with the most imprisoned journalists in the world, and many students, trade unionists and civil society activists are also being prosecuted under anti-terrorism laws.
written. - turkey is the main transit country for illegal immigration into the european union via greece. this route is used by migrants and refugees from all over the world and it is important to strengthen cooperation in the area of migration management. i support the agreement between the eu and the republic of turkey to strengthen the contribution to the fight against illegal immigration into the european union through turkish territory. i also welcome the fact that this agreement would strengthen the fight against cross-border crime with a particular focus on the fight against trafficking in human beings. i agree with mrs sommer that both sides would benefit from signing the said agreement, which for the turkish side represents a rapprochement with the eu and visa liberalisation, bearing in mind that turkey is the only candidate country without visa liberalisation. the conclusion of this agreement is therefore of key importance.
written. - i support the report by renate sommer on the eu-turkey agreement on the readmission of persons residing without authorisation, which aims to tackle the problem of illegal migrants entering the territory of the european union and to combat crime linked to illegal migration. the area around the turkish border is one of the most frequent areas of migration. this makes turkey an important transit country for illegal migrants, in their attempt to cross into european union countries. turkey is the only eu candidate country still subject to visa restrictions and this agreement also addresses this issue. i stress that reaching agreement on the agreement is important for turkey's path towards eu membership.
written. - i support this agreement. the route through turkey to greece is the most commonly used route for migrants and refugees to reach the european union. this makes turkey the main transit country for illegal immigration into the european union. i therefore consider this agreement to be of the utmost importance. this agreement would do a lot to fight illegal immigration, human trafficking and reduce the immigration pressure on the european union. i consider that turkey's delay in ratifying the readmission agreement until the european union introduces visa facilitation for turkish citizens is unacceptable. we must also not ignore the fact that turkey does not recognise cyprus as an independent state and thus does not recognise any member of the european union or the european union as a whole. i believe that this agreement is important and that both the european union and turkey will benefit from this agreement. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu-turkey association agreement and the eu-turkey association agreement, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu-turkey association agreement and the eu-turkey association agreement.
written. - i support the recommendation on the draft council decision on the signing of the agreement between the european union and the republic of turkey on the readmission of persons residing without authorisation, as it constitutes a new instrument aimed at effectively combating illegal immigration from turkey to the european union, and at the same time contributes to the fight against cross-border crime and in particular against trafficking in human beings. as the representative of the member state with the longest external land border, i give my full support to initiatives that will reduce the pressure of illegal immigration at the union's borders. i also share the rapporteur's dismay at the scandalous approach of the turkish government which made ratification of the readmission agreement conditional on the adoption of visa liberalisation measures for the benefit of turkish citizens. this approach is unacceptable and this disregard for the territorial integrity of the european union should be taken into account when assessing turkey's progress on its path to the eu.
written. - this proposal would introduce further improvements to the parliament's voting system. under the new system, all final votes of meps in their committees would be recorded and published. at present, such a voting practice exists only during the sitting of the whole parliament, i.e. in plenary sessions, while in committees it is used at the request of one quarter of the members. i also support the amendment proposed by my colleague and i think that further transparency should always be seen positively. informing the public about how a particular member voted on a particular issue is the minimum we have to offer the public. i am very pleased that this matter is being put to the vote because this has been a very topical issue for many years and i believe that the outcome of the vote will benefit the public.
written. - i supported the report by mr carl casinia on the amendment of rule 166 of parliament's rules of procedure on final voting and rule 195 (3) on committee voting, because i believe it contributes to the principle of transparency which the european parliament should promote. the principle of transparency presupposes that the european union is open to its citizens in its interinstitutional relations and in its decision-making procedures. this important principle has been gradually imposed through the recognition of rights for citizens and obligations for institutions, and i believe that the european parliament should have a leading role in asserting it. the maastricht treaty laid the legal foundations for the principle of transparency in the functioning of the union's institutions in order to bring them closer to the citizens, with a view to enhancing the democratic character of the institutions and strengthening citizens' trust. since members of the european parliament are accountable to citizens and voters, i consider that the amendment of these articles in terms of nominative voting in committees and at sittings affirms the principle of transparency.
in writing. - i agree with the report regarding amendment of rule 166 of parliament’s rules of procedure concerning the final vote and rule 195 concerning voting in committee. all final votes on reports should be adopted by roll-call using the electronic voting system. the aim of this report is to increase the transparency and democratic accountability of members to the electorate and citizens. all voters should have the right to know how their elected representatives have voted. in committee, final voting should be a show of hands, unless a quarter of the committee members request a vote by roll-call.
written. - in order to create a single european railway area, reduce the cost and duration of licensing procedures and increase railway safety, it is necessary to streamline and harmonise licensing procedures at union level. the agency should be able to provide the necessary technical assistance to the national safety authorities in the member states concerned. the achievement of interoperability within the rail system within the union should result in the establishment of an optimal level of technical compatibility and should facilitate, improve and develop rail transport within the union and with third countries, and contribute to the progressive establishment of an internal market for equipment and services for the construction, renewal, upgrading and operation of the rail system within the union. i support the commission's proposal, but i also believe that the role of the agency in the vehicle authorisation procedure is overstated, as it should replace the national safety authority.
mr president, the development of the railway system is important for better connectivity and economic strengthening of the union as a whole, because of the many advantages of a high-quality and fast single railway area. the republic of croatia is part of the important corridor x and corridors v.b and v.c and we have numerous and financially demanding investments in railway projects ahead of us, for which we have the support of the european union through the cohesion policy. the report particularly highlights the importance of creating a more competitive sector with a high quality of service. the opening of the market would strengthen the rules for railway workers, improve governance in the railway sector and passenger rights. that is why i was happy to support this report.
written. - the strategic guidelines for the development of railway infrastructure in croatia are set out in the strategy for the development of transport of the republic of croatia. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the infrastructure is not in conformity with the public policy objectives of the region. as a result of the non-implementation of the planned measures and activities, today in croatia we have an alarming state of the railways and stable facilities of the croatian railways caused by insufficient investment in the modernization and maintenance of the existing infrastructure, reduction of the network and suspension of traffic on the tracks. therefore, it is not surprising that rail transport in croatia today has a much weaker impact on spatial organisation than it could have. the commission considers that the aid granted to the region is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of article 107 (3) (c) of the treaty. i agree with the general objective of the report to establish a single european railway area. i believe that the railway should be used more than any other means of transport and i believe that we should all work together to make railways a reliable and attractive means of transport. that is why i voted for this report.
written. - over the last decade, the use of the european motorway network has increased by 27% while the use of the rail network has fallen by 2%. the commission notes that the airport services agreement concluded between ryanair and ams was signed on the same day as the airport services agreement signed with ryanair on the same day. the share of rail passenger transport in the european union of 6% remained more or less constant and rail passenger services did not keep pace with the development of needs in terms of supply and quality. from the perspective of the society in which we live, rail can be said to offer tailor-made solutions to how to deal with the mobility and transport challenges of the future. no other form of transport can boast the energy efficiency of rail. in fact, railways have been the only means of reducing their carbon dioxide emissions since 1990, while all other modes of transport have increased their share. finally, i support this report and would like to point out that the rail sector has even agreed to reduce its emissions by 30% by 2020. such measures are necessary to preserve the environment by establishing a single european railway area.
written. - the single european area is trying to achieve something that we have been trying unsuccessfully for 23 years with the previous three packages to increase the share of rail transport in the total, which is continuously declining. the question, however, is how to talk about legislation that takes us back to the time before the first railway package, that is, before the separation of the infrastructure and transport part of the railways. the situation in the individual member states is very different: most member states have separated infrastructure from transport activities, but this separation has not proved effective either in uniting the european market or in increasing the market share of railways. we now want to make the unbundling optional, and we have no indication that this will achieve a more unified european market and increase the competitiveness of the railways. it is certainly necessary to provide additional appropriate reasoning for accepting the commission's proposal to open up the possibility for member states to restrict free access to services in order to protect services provided by public services, because this is in effect returning the legislature to the position it was in before the first package.
written. - i have supported the report by mr el khadraoui on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2012/34/eu of the european parliament and of the council of 21 november 2012 establishing a single european railway area as regards the opening of the market for domestic passenger transport services by rail and the management of railway infrastructure. the single european transport area should facilitate the movement of citizens and freight, reduce costs and enhance the sustainability of european transport. the bottlenecks are still most pronounced in the area of the internal market for rail services, which needs to be completed as a priority for the establishment of a european railway area involving the removal of technical, administrative and legal obstacles and the improvement of services. i believe that the amendments proposed in this report will effectively contribute to the development of a single european railway area as they bring a number of improvements in the field of a balanced approach to market opening, transparent infrastructure management, the definition of a european surveillance system, greater passenger rights and the establishment of a social dialogue at eu level on the rights of railway workers. i believe that the eu transport system should constantly emphasise the importance of transport modes that have a less negative impact on the environment and contribute to the overall efficiency of the transport system and to the reduction of overall transport costs as part of the development of the overall eu transport infrastructure.
in writing. - the draft proposal describes the establishment of a single european railway area, as regards the opening of the market for domestic passenger transport services by rail and the governance of the railway infrastructure. growth of passenger traffic by rail has not been developed to increase its model share in comparison to cars or aviation. the main reason for these bad models of rail systems involves unfair competition as regards other modes of transport, a lack of political will to develop better rail transport and low investment in rail networks. this draft should take into consideration the base of specific data, such as rates, costs and charges plus checking the quality of service. this legislation has to be effective and completely applied in all member states in prescribed time-limits. with common legislation it is possible to complete the opening of the european union’s railway market, ensuring equal access to infrastructure in order to improve the quality of rail services through the eu.
written. - it is crucial to complete the opening of the union's railway market so that railways can become a credible alternative to other modes of transport in terms of price and quality. the main reasons for the insufficient share of rail transport in total traffic in europe are unfair competition in relation to other modes of transport, lack of political will to develop rail transport and insufficient investment in rail networks. in order to establish a single european railway area, it is of the utmost importance that the relevant legislation is effectively and fully implemented in all member states within the prescribed time-limits. in order to ensure uniform conditions for the implementation of this regulation, implementing powers should be conferred on the commission. i supported this proposal in order to ensure better coordination between the infrastructure manager and the railway undertaking by setting up a coordination committee with the aim of achieving efficient management and use of the infrastructure. in addition, the infrastructure manager should align with railway undertakings at the level of traffic control without compromising its own independence and responsibility for the management of the network or existing rules.
written. - the european commission's report and mr grosch's report show that european rail transport is not sufficiently efficient in terms of passenger numbers, quality of service, infrastructure and ticket sales. in many member states of the european union, the costs of managing and operating rail services are high in relation to the quality of service offered, while at the same time the market barriers to entry for new, potential service providers are insurmountable. the situation in croatia, my country of origin, is no different from the one described above. for this reason, i support mr grosch's report, particularly in the area of strengthening the competitiveness of rail transport. however, competition as such should not be an objective but a means to increase the quality, the scope and the efficiency of passenger services. the further development of european rail transport should be directed towards a more efficient and technologically equipped railway system that would enable the railway to participate on an equal and competitive footing in the global transport market. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the railway sector's policy on the basis of the commission's communication on the future of the railway sector (2014-2020) and the communication from the commission to the european parliament and the council on the future of the railway sector (2014-2020) [20].
written. - during the last decade, the growth of rail passenger transport has not been sufficient to increase its share of total transport compared to road and air transport. the share of rail passenger transport in the european union of 6% remained more or less stable. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the market for rail passenger services is in a state of flux. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the union railways have been subject to a systematic approach to the issue of the safety of railway infrastructure. as a member of the socialist and democratic group in the european parliament, i stress the need to respect the rights of passengers and the rights of workers. i believe it is necessary to strengthen the social standards of workers, especially in the event of staff transfers to another operator. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union railway safety legislation and the implementation of the union railway safety legislation. in conclusion, i support this report and would like to point out that rail transport plays a significant social and environmental role and a significant role in terms of mobility planning. it can also significantly increase its overall share of european passenger transport, which would reduce environmental pollution compared to other modes of transport of people.
written. - despite positive developments in some member states, more efficient efforts are needed to increase passenger numbers, service quality, infrastructure and ticket sales, as in many member states prices are still too high in relation to the quality of services offered. investing in sustainable transport modes not only benefits the environment and economic development but also stimulates growth and employment, which is of utmost importance in this time of crisis and unemployment. the report stresses the importance of all these elements and i therefore supported it.
written. - by opening up domestic rail passenger markets to international competition and ensuring transparent public tenders, we hope to achieve competitiveness in this branch and greater market security. however, member states have different experiences with market opening. some fear that this will cause unnecessary costs for local authorities and burden member states with additional obligations to conduct open bidding. however, if we are to achieve the commission's optimistic but commendable objectives of increasing the railway's share, it is essential to strike a balance between opening up the market and protecting the public service obligations of individual member states, and we must in particular keep citizens in mind and avoid at all costs the systematic closure of less profitable lines or the favouring of lines that are only commercially attractive.
in writing. - rail transport can have a huge impact on overall european passenger transport. it is important to invest in research as well as in infrastructure to contribute to new growth, which will boost employment. to keep a high level of service quality, it is necessary to have inter alia mandatory tendering for public service contracts. quality of service should be improved and efficiency should be increased. competent authorities have the essential role of maintaining the organisation of public passenger transport services. they should identify routes to be designated for open access and determine viability, efficiency and quality targets. to ensure financing for objectives of sustainable public transport plans, competent authorities have to design obligations to attain public transport objectives of a high quality and in a cost-effective manner. and over- or under-compensation which is caused by the substance of the public service obligations should be strictly avoided.
written. - more than 8 billion journeys a year are rail journeys across europe, and 10% of goods are transported by rail. the sector employs as many as 800 000 people. i would like to highlight the environmental aspect throughout the union. the plan is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 20% by 2050 and co2 emissions by 60% compared to 1990 levels. by comparing the targets with the current situation, we can see the potential for growth in an industry where european manufacturers are world leaders in technology, especially when it comes to safety and high-speed trains. the interoperability within the rail system within the union is achieved by means of a regulatory framework for railways. it should set out clear responsibilities for ensuring compliance with the safety, health, social protection and consumer protection rules applicable to the railway networks. it is also important to enable the improvement and development of rail transport within the union and with third countries. i endorse this report and consider it necessary to update the interoperability rules to meet the new needs arising from the further opening of the market.
written. - the commission has set as its objectives for passenger and freight transport by 2050 a reduction of greenhouse gas emissions by 20% and co2 emissions by 60% compared to 1990 levels, and the achievement of more than half of medium-distance travel by rail. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's environmental policy and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's environmental policy. the commission has also concluded that the measures provided for in this decision are in line with the principle of proportionality, these conditions make it difficult for new operators to enter the market. i support this report because the integration of the railway system will create a single european railway corridor towards modernisation and a european future.
written. - in the last ten years, three railway packages have aimed at opening up national markets and increasing market competitiveness and interoperability, but the need for further harmonisation remains. the completion of the single european railway area, the improvement of the quality and cost-effectiveness of rail passenger services, the removal of remaining legal, administrative and technical obstacles are prerequisites for strengthening the competitiveness of rail transport in relation to other modes of transport. in this respect, i support the adoption of the fourth railway package. however, taking into account the real situation in the railway sector, it is necessary to take into account the difficulties with which the further planned activities will be implemented. for example, it should be borne in mind that in some countries, such as the republic of croatia, which became a member only in july, the implementation of the division of responsibilities under the 3rd railway package, which is a prerequisite for the introduction of the 4th railway package, has only just started, and the introduction and application of the 4th railway package is expected to be difficult. therefore, i believe that the planned deadline for a transitional period of one year may not be long enough, but that the idea of strengthening interoperability is commendable.
in writing. - it is crucial to enable citizens of the european union, regional and local authorities to benefit to the full extent from the fact that the eu has established an area without internal frontiers. the goal is to keep up with the objectives of territorial cohesion. improvement of national rail networks should be a topic in each member state, in order to maintain this harmonisation between countries. this harmonisation should lead to development and improvement to contribute to the progressive creation of an internal market in services for renewal and operation of rail systems in the european union. however the european union agency for railways should retain an overview of the system, in order to maintain and guarantee safety and interoperability. all authorisation procedures should be streamlined and harmonised at the european union level. that requires clear distribution of objectives and tasks between national safety authorities during a transitional period.
written. - in order to create a single european railway area, reduce the cost and duration of licensing procedures and increase railway safety, it is necessary to streamline and harmonise licensing procedures at union level. the agency should be able to provide the necessary technical assistance to the national safety authorities in the member states concerned. the achievement of interoperability within the rail system within the union should result in the establishment of an optimal level of technical compatibility and should facilitate, improve and develop rail transport within the union and with third countries, and contribute to the progressive establishment of an internal market for equipment and services for the construction, renewal, upgrading and operation of the rail system within the union. i support the commission's proposal, but i also believe that the role of the agency in the vehicle authorisation procedure is overstated, as it should replace the national safety authority.
written. - railways are already the safest form of transport in the union and have further improved their safety performance over the past decades. while their traffic volume has increased from about 200 billion passenger-kilometers in 1970 to more than 300 billion today, the average annual death rate in passenger rail transport has decreased from 400 in the early 1970's to less than 100 today. the union railway environment has undergone profound changes, brought about inter alia by the three union railway packages adopted since the early 1990s. the gradual creation of a single european railway area has been marked by an increase in participants, a growing involvement of subcontractors and more frequent market entries. however, there are differences in safety requirements between member states. the commission should be able to assess the compatibility of the aid with the internal market on the basis of the criteria set out in the guidelines on state aid for rescuing and restructuring firms in difficulty. it is therefore of particular importance that the process of harmonising the operational and safety rules of the member states and the rules on accident investigation be continued. in conclusion, i would like to support this report and stress that appropriate means should be used and developed for railway safety and development. the safety of railways depends to a large extent on the interaction between railway infrastructure, activities, manufacturers and safety authorities.
written. - this directive establishes a common regulatory framework for railway safety by harmonising the content of safety rules, safety certificates of railway undertakings, the tasks and role of national safety authorities and accident investigation. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union rail safety legislation and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union rail safety legislation. that's why i supported this report.
written. - railways are already the safest mode of transport in the european union, and safety has been steadily increasing over the past few decades. however, with the move towards a single european railway area, the number of railway users is increasing and the complexity of railway safety is increasing. to continue to ensure maximum safety on the railway, the cooperation of all stakeholders from railway undertakings and industry to railway infrastructure managers and safety services will be key. the railway safety legislation should take account of these developments and set out appropriate information, management and safety procedures and tools. in addition, the strengthening of the european railway agency is necessary to increase safety, but certainly within reasonable time limits, as many legislations, including that of the republic of croatia, are still adjusting to the previous railway package.
written. - i supported the report by mr cramer on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on railway safety because the safety protection of citizens must be high on the list of priorities of the european union and all member states. transport users pay the full price of transport in exchange for less congestion, more information, better service and, most importantly, greater safety. when we talk about railway safety, we cannot help but recall the tragic train accident that occurred in northwestern spain last july, leaving dozens dead and injured. i consider that the tightening of the safety and maintenance authorisation procedure for sections of rolling stock and railway infrastructure is of the utmost importance for safety and that it was necessary to strengthen the role of the european railway agency (era) in the field of railway safety, in particular in the supervision of national measures taken by national safety authorities and their coordination. i welcome the establishment of a single type-approval for the use of vehicles and a single safety solution for the provision of rail transport services, because this is the only way to prevent new accidents and casualties.
in writing. - it is known that rail is the safest mode of transport in the european union. still, railways have shown improving safety performance over the past decades. safety should not just be for passengers and employees, but for the staff of contractors and people residing near railway lines. in order to further improve railway safety, it is necessary to take into account the expected improvement in the competitiveness of rail transport. establishment of a common regulatory framework for railway safety with safety rules, certification and tasks, will bring better harmonisation of the system as whole. maintaining safety is an element which should be further discussed, because at the moment safety depends on the interaction between rail infrastructure, operations, manufacturers and safety authorities. there should be appropriate tools to ensure and develop safety and all member states should monitor and maintain networks so that local railway safety is stable and efficient.
written. - the railway environment in the union has undergone radical changes brought about, inter alia, by the three union railway packages adopted since the early 1990s. the railway safety legislation should take account of these developments and establish appropriate procedures and means for information, management and response to emergencies. in view of the existing differences between safety requirements, which affect the optimal functioning of rail transport in the union, it is particularly important to continue the process of harmonising the operational and safety rules and the rules on accident investigation. the agency shall be responsible for the implementation of the agency's activities in the field of safety. i voted in favour of this proposal because i believe that a revision of directive 2004/49 is necessary, which must be carried out in close cooperation with the rapporteurs who worked on directive 2008/57/ec and regulation 881/2004/ec. the agency should become a focal point for security solutions in the union by applying the expertise and local knowledge and experience of national security authorities. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the definition of the safety certification bodies and the designation of the safety certification bodies. however, harmonisation should not compromise the current level of safety in any member state.
written. - the european railway agency was originally established by regulation (ec) no 881/2004 of the european parliament and of the council of 29 april 2004. it contributed to the creation and effective functioning of a single european railway area without borders and ensured a high level of safety. the new act would introduce substantial changes in the tasks of the agency and its internal organisation. i believe that it is necessary to improve the interoperability of the trans-european networks. there are ongoing projects and new investment projects receiving union support. they shall be consistent with the objectives of interoperability. the european union agency for railways is, in my view, the very institution that can contribute to these objectives. i would like to mention the process of enlargement of the european union and the specific restrictions on rail links with third countries. the agency should also seek to strengthen the principle of reciprocity between third country access to the union market and union carriers' access to third country markets. i also believe that the agency's implementation of the impact assessment of its recommendations and opinions is a positive new measure. the agency shall select an impact assessment methodology based on the commission methodology. the agency shall be associated with the commission in this way in order to ensure that its work is duly taken into account. i endorse this report and would like to stress the importance of improving railways as the most environmentally friendly means of transporting people and goods.
written. - the proposal for a regulation on the european railway agency focuses on removing remaining administrative and technical obstacles such as fragmentation and discrimination. the proposal leads to more harmonised rules such as establishing a common approach to safety within the operational rules to increase economies of scale for railway undertakings operating across the eu, reduce administrative costs, speed up administrative procedures as well as avoid disguised discrimination and assign new tasks to the european railway agency. all this will contribute to the creation of a common railway system comparable to road and air transport systems. each participant will be responsible for ensuring that its system meets the essential requirements including technical compatibility, reliability and accessibility. the commission has proposed that the european railway agency be given a number of additional tasks of an executive nature. the european railway agency will issue the approvals and certificates currently issued by the national safety agency, but the european railway agency would not replace the purpose of the national safety agency. the report is good because it will increase the administrative quality of transport and raise the standard of service to a higher level, including safety as an important factor in rail transport, and that is why i supported it.
written. - i support this simplification which would make it easier for fleet manufacturers to operate in other member states by introducing a single certificate system managed by a strengthened european railway agency (following the example of the easa aviation agency). it is the beginning of a long chain of events which i believe will be important for the future of european railways - the simplicity of certification will make it easier for railway undertakings to enter the market and will boost competitiveness and consequently increase the efficiency of the sector itself, which will have an impact on the improved image of rail as a mode of transport and bring us closer to the commission's target of 50% of total traffic by 2050. the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the proposed amendments on the safety of the products concerned. i hope that the proposed system will solve the problems of red tape, so that trains will not have to have separate certificates for each country they pass through and railway equipment manufacturers all 28 certificates, but in order not to create new problems over time, i am in favour of clarifying the new responsibilities and duties of the european railway agency.
in writing. - the aim of the european union agency for railways is to promote establishment of a european railway area without borders and for renewal of the railway sector while promoting advantages in terms of safety. the fourth railway package laid down important changes to enhance and promote functioning of the single european railway area, in particular with vehicle authorisations and safety certificates. this agency should promote effective functioning of the single european railway sector, while increasing safety. the european union should develop a common approach to safety and interoperability in order to increase economies of scale for the european railway system. the agency should take full responsibility of the process of enlargement of the union and specific constraints relating to rail connection with third countries. it is also necessity to accelerate administrative procedures. each member state should take full responsibility to ensure that their part of the system meets the essential requirements for reliability, accessibility, and safety.
written. - i voted for this proposal because of the importance of the good functioning of the european rail traffic management system (ertms). the system needs to be further harmonised at union level, taking into account the failure of its development and deployment to date, and for the smooth development of the single european railway area and its safety. the objective of achieving interoperability and harmonisation of train monitoring and signalling systems across the eu is currently seriously undermined by the multiplicity of different national versions of ertms. the agency should therefore play a more prominent role as the union body with the highest competence in this field in order to ensure the harmonised development of ertms, to contribute to ensuring that ertms equipment meets the applicable specifications and to ensure that european research projects related to ertms are aligned with the development of the technical specifications of ertms. the agency shall be responsible for the implementation of the agency's activities in the field of safety and health at work.
written. - a common transport policy in the union, which protects competition and guarantees the freedom to provide services, requires the harmonisation of the legal provisions in the member states. in the field of rail transport, harmonisation of technical requirements is particularly necessary. the continued existence of wide differences between member states in the field of technical requirements and safety standards may create obstacles to the formation of a european railway area. the gradual harmonisation of those requirements is necessary for the interoperability of the different national rail systems of the member states. i would like to emphasise that the standardisation procedure should not relieve member states of their responsibility to eliminate existing causes of distortion of competition. the standardisation of the accounts of railway undertakings in the member states must also not lead to a deterioration in the position of railway workers, nor prevent or delay the improvement of their living and working conditions. i endorse this report and would like to point out that each normalisation has its own specific characteristics. it is therefore necessary to determine the scope of each such case. i consider it also necessary to lay down the accounting principles to be applied for the purpose of determining the financial commitments.
written. - this regulation, which allows member states to compensate railway undertakings for the payment of certain obligations, was adopted before the liberalisation of the railway market and while railways were mostly developing within national borders, with integrated undertakings and infrastructure management. i would remind you that the european rail sector has been losing market share for the last 60 years and that research has shown that many railway companies rely on public subsidies. the commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of article 107 (3) (c) of the treaty. however, what is obvious is the restrictive nature of the regulation that only certain undertakings are listed in the regulation, to be precise a few dozen of them, out of over a thousand railway undertakings in europe. in view of the current climate of lack of funding, it would not be a bad idea to retain the possibility of compensation to railway undertakings, but in this case, to leave this possibility to all railway undertakings. the commission has not received any comments from interested parties.
in writing. - i vote in favour regarding the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council repealing regulation (eec) no 1192/69 of the council on common rules for the normalisation of the accounts of railway undertakings. in the framework of the fourth railway package, the commission proposes to remove rules regarding normalisation of the accounts of railway undertakings. it allows member states to compensate railway undertakings for payment of obligations which transport modes do not have to support. within these obligations can be special payments in cases of accidents at work and pensions of workers who retire earlier. since 2007 four member states have made use of this regulation; belgium, germany, ireland and poland. the commission thinks that the regulation no longer respects the legal environment.
in writing. - regulation (eec) no[nbsp ]1192/69 was adopted before the rail market was liberalised and when rail transport in europe was developing primarily within national borders, with integrated companies both operating rail services and managing rail infrastructure. at the time, the objective of the regulation was to put railway undertakings in other transport modes on an equal competitive footing. i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to repeal regulation (eec) no[nbsp ]1192/69. in all previous railway packages, as proposed by the commission and then adopted and transposed by member states, the aim was to extend rights and obligations to all the rail newcomers and thus to open up the rail market. here, the commission proposes to solve potential discrimination among railway undertakings not by an appropriate recast, as in the case of other legislative texts, but by directly deleting the act: i.e. by repealing the regulation.
mr president, i supported this report today and the objective of this regulation is to strengthen and improve the civil aviation accident prevention system in the union. this should be improved by analysis and faster exchange of information. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this regulation. the airspace of the european union is one of the busiest in the world and we must continuously strive to improve all the safety conditions in civil aviation. as i come from croatia, where tourism is one of the most important economic sectors and accounts for more than 15% of gdp, these are the results for 2012, precisely because a large number of tourists come only by civil aircraft, and in my dubrovnik, except for cruise ships, only by aircraft, i believe that air safety must be at the highest possible level both in croatia and throughout the union. member states shall ensure that all corrective and preventive measures are implemented in order to maximise the safety of air navigation in their territory.
mr. president, people who spend a lot of their time traveling and their families know very well how important safe travel is. of course, the increased density of air traffic in the future will mean more situations that, if left unchecked, can lead to accidents. the commission should also be able to provide information on the number of cases of non-compliance with the requirements of this regulation, including the number of cases of non-compliance with the requirements of this regulation. the different categories of civil aviation personnel are present at events important for accident prevention. it is essential to give them access to the means to facilitate the reporting of such events while ensuring protection. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 1260/1999 as regards the definition of the concept of 'originating products' and methods of administrative cooperation.
written. - this report on the proposal for a regulation aims to strengthen and improve the eu accident prevention system through analysis and rapid information exchange and thus ensure the achievement of the objectives of the 2011 white paper on transport. while the efficiency of the current accident investigation system in the eu is high, additional efforts are needed in data collection and proactive accident analysis. while accident investigations involve analysis of the cause of system failures, the proposed reporting system would identify situations that, if not detected and corrected in time, have the potential to cause air traffic disasters. in this report i supported the encouragement of the european aviation safety agency (easa) to establish the possibility of implementing preventive or corrective measures with the aim of enhancing aviation safety in the territory of the eu. the commission should be able to assess the effectiveness of the measures taken by the member states in the context of the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance. i also supported accordingly the enhancement of the role and responsibility of easa, and the provision of the necessary resources to the reporting agencies to effectively implement the necessary measures.
written. - although airplanes are by far the safest means of transportation, as shown by the statistic that the probability of a passenger dying in flight is only one in 30 million, there is always room for improvement. this regulation is thus a positive example of improving aviation safety through preventive and proactive methods of reporting and information exchange between member states, and of course experts and industry. i would commend the fact that in the development of the regulation, particular attention has been paid to the preservation of the anonymity and privacy of personal data when accessing the repository of aviation accident information due to the occasional problems with insufficient legal protection of personnel reporting aviation incidents themselves. i also welcome the extension of the staff protection regulation, such as extending protection not only to the person reporting but to all staff involved in the incident itself. i am pleased that croatia is also working intensively to strengthen civil aviation safety, and last year a european project worth almost one million euros of the croatian civil aviation agency was just completed with the aim of strengthening administrative and technical capacities to enable the effective implementation of the agency's activities.
written. - civil aviation safety takes on special importance when taking into account the forecast that air traffic use will double by 2030. the efficiency of accident investigation in eu systems so far is commendable, but even greater efforts are needed to keep the number of accidents to a minimum. the commission should be able to verify that the air carriers certified in the republic of moldova comply with the essential requirements set out in the annex to regulation (ec) no 2111/2005. the reporting systems are entirely dependent on the honesty of employees, who unfortunately still fear legal prosecution or punishment from their employers in some member states. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work (com (2016) 0173). i also support the measure to enable the exchange of information within the unidentified and secure databases known as the european central repository of the member states and the european aviation safety agency (easa).
written. - although primarily technical in nature, this report is a great example of the correct application of the principle of subsidiarity, as the uniform application of the rules in this segment will most effectively enhance civil aviation safety at union level. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the air carriers concerned have been operating in breach of the obligations imposed on them by the relevant legislation. the union added value is found precisely in the proposal that information on events should be exchanged within the union, so that member states have an insight into events inside and outside their country, which will at the same time allow the competent authorities to obtain more accurate information. in the spirit of subsidiarity, i also welcome the part that states that member states may adopt or maintain national provisions guaranteeing a higher level of protection for whistleblowers than that provided for in this regulation. that being said, i voted yes.
the european union wants to contribute to reducing the number of road accidents and to mitigating their consequences. the introduction of e-invoicing in vehicles will achieve these objectives, provided that this instrument is available to every driver throughout the european union. the commission has also received a request from the croatian authorities to provide further information on the implementation of the e-call chain. the croatian consortium of the project called heero is the winner of a special award for the most successful implementation and testing of the e-call from all 9 countries involved in this project. the introduction of the 112 based emergency e-call service in vehicles, the single european emergency call, is a major achievement in ensuring the safety of citizens and saving some 2 500 lives across europe. furthermore, the system does not function as a vehicle tracking device, which speaks to the fact that citizens' personal data is protected. for the reasons i have mentioned, i support mrs sehnall's report because i believe that the introduction of the e-voting service will make it possible to increase the overall safety on european roads.
written. - vehicles equipped with ecall or e-call devices will automatically call the emergency number in the event of an accident, most commonly 112. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a decision on the extension of the scope of the ecall system to include the european union. it is a commendable project that is estimated to save over 2 500 lives a year in the european union when activated. as a doctor, i know how critical the speed of the ambulance to the scene is in saving the injured. in situations like this, minutes can be the difference between life and death. the automated call is estimated to reduce response time by 60% inside the settlement and by 50% outside. in addition to saving lives, ecall services will allow for better traffic management at the accident site and thus prevent possible secondary accidents. i support this proposal and hope that in its first revision we will be able to deal with increased statistics of lives saved.
written. - i supported this proposal because our common objective is to increase safety on european roads, to reduce the number of people killed and injured in road accidents, and to reduce the number of accidents themselves. the development and implementation of e-calling in all vehicles in the union will certainly contribute to the goal mechanism. given that a privately owned emergency system already exists and 0.7% of vehicles are equipped with it, the eu emergency system should be free of charge for all users of this service, for the benefit of any driver anywhere in europe and regardless of the brand of the driver's vehicle. in addition, drivers, i.e. future users, should be provided with clear and complete information on the differences between the private ecall service and the eu ecall system and should in any case be able to switch to the eu ecall system at any time.
written. - it is a sad fact that on the roads of the european union, 30 000 people are killed in road accidents every year, and over a million are injured in some way, while in the republic of croatia the situation is not much better - hundreds of people are killed in road accidents every year. road safety is one of the key elements of the european union's transport policy and in this respect, with this european parliament decision aiming to establish the functioning of ecall throughout the european union, i hope to reduce these statistics, as the analysis of the performance of the ecall system reduces the severity of the consequences of accidents for drivers and passengers in the vehicle by up to 15% and reduces the number of fatalities by up to 10%. it is estimated that the system, when standardised, will save some 2 500 lives a year in europe, and that is why i fully support it and believe that the sooner this system is put in place, the safer our roads and transport will be, both for our citizens and for all travellers in the european union. in view of the reduced ability to pay of citizens as a result of the crisis, i would stress the importance of not making this solution an additional burden on their budget, since it is a matter of basic road safety that should be available to everyone.
written. - this proposal aims to introduce in all vehicles in the european union the minimum presumptions necessary to enable emergency calls to be made to the competent emergency services. i agree with the report that this needs to be done at eu level to ensure the availability and continuity of the service across the union. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 264 concerning the establishment of a european emergency numbering plan for the emergency services of the member states. the commission will also be able to provide the necessary information to the member states in order to ensure that the safety of the vehicles is not compromised. the competent emergency services shall be able to be contacted independently. i consider this a very important issue and i support the initiative to harmonise and introduce automatic emergency calls. this will help save lives after traffic accidents. in 2012, there were more than 37,000 road accidents in the republic of croatia, resulting in 393 deaths. by implementing this system, i hope to reduce these devastating statistics.
written. - i consider the report to be an extremely positive example of the union's potential added value, as the subject matter it deals with could not, unfortunately, be more effectively realised at national, regional or local level. as a representative of croatia, the new member state of the union which already continuously records dramatic black statistics on the roads, i have nothing but praise for this report. the ecall system is an absolutely innovative and useful concept that could save millions of lives in the future, both on croatian and european roads. so i wholeheartedly supported this proposal.
mr president, i supported the report by mr langen because i believe that the regulation of the insurance market needs to be improved because it is important to restore consumer confidence in the system, which has been damaged by the recent crisis in the financial system. the harmonisation of the national rules of the member states of the european union on insurance and reinsurance intermediation should allow all participants in this market to operate on a level playing field. the main objectives i particularly support are consumer protection by raising the objectivity of consumer advice and ensuring the adequate expertise of insurance brokers and the integrity and stability of the insurance market, which is also highlighted in the report.
the commission should be able to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu in order to amend this directive by amending the annex to directive 2014/65/eu. the harmonisation of national provisions on professional qualifications and registration of persons who establish and carry on insurance or reinsurance intermediation activities can contribute to the completion of the single market for financial services. one of the reasons why member states need to adopt rules that take into account the interest of consumers is, inter alia, the increasing concentration of activities, which many insurance intermediaries and insurance undertakings carry out simultaneously, which has increased the potential for conflicts of interest between those activities and the interests of consumers. in order to ensure that the insurance intermediary's employees are able to effectively manage the risks associated with the insurance product, it is necessary to provide for the necessary expertise and training to the insurance intermediary's employees.
written. - directive 2002/92/ec regulates the sale of insurance products in order to ensure the rights of consumers. this directive is a minimum instrument of harmonisation and is to be implemented in the member states. the commission has also received comments from the european parliament and the council on the draft directive on the protection of creditors against the risk of insolvency of insurance intermediaries. the commission proposal contains provisions to avoid conflicts of interest: to raise the level of consistency of administrative sanctions for breaches of key provisions of the current directive, to improve the appropriateness and objectivity of advice, to ensure that sellers possess professional qualifications appropriate to the complexity of the products they sell, to simplify and approximate the procedure for cross-border entry into the insurance market across the eu. the commission's proposal is therefore a step forward in the protection of consumers in insurance mediation and as such deserves support.
written. - i supported the report by mr langen on insurance intermediation which aims to harmonise the national regulations of the member states of the european union regarding access to insurance and reinsurance intermediation. in the current crisis circumstances accompanied by financial turbulence, it is essential to restore consumer confidence in the financial system and to better harmonise the regulatory treatment of the sale of insurance products in order to ensure an adequate level of consumer protection across the union. i consider that insurance plays an important role at a time when consumers are most vulnerable and that it is therefore necessary to promote equality and competition on a level playing field between intermediaries, to ensure a high level of professionalism and competence of insurance and reinsurance intermediaries, as is also important for the integration of the internal market, and all with a view to a higher degree of consumer protection.
written. - the aim of this proposal is to improve the regulation of the insurance market in an efficient manner. it is important to ensure safety and reliability for all insurance market participants and, in particular, to ensure the protection of consumers or policyholders. the proposal addresses many areas such as better identification and management of conflicts of interest, raising the level of compliance of administrative sanctions, improving the level of consumer advice, improving the professional experience of sellers and, perhaps most importantly, simplifying the procedures for insurers to enter insurance markets in other member states. the european union and the single market are a challenge and an opportunity for all market players, and there are many benefits of competition, especially for consumers. i believe that the insurance market should not be an exception and that there is room for harmonisation of regulations, improvement of regulation, consumer protection and the opening up of the insurance market and therefore i support this proposal.
written. - while the report contains certain elements which i consider to be positive, such as promoting competition between intermediaries, consumer protection and the integration of the internal market, i cannot agree with excessive provisions which unnecessarily interfere with the competences of the member states of the union, such as the proposal for 200 hours of professional training for insurance intermediaries and the related requirement that member states must provide independent bodies to monitor, assess and approve the above, such as the proposal to allow insurance undertakings and intermediaries to refuse to provide binding mediation in cases of consumer disputes, which is a direct attack on consumer protection rights, etc. therefore, i refused to support this proposal.
mr president, healthcare is one of the largest sectors of the european union's economy, accounting for around 10% of europe's gross domestic product and employing one in 10 workers, including a large number of highly qualified people. the european union-wide health programme finances a number of activities that contribute to the development of innovative and sustainable health systems, the quality and safety of health, the prevention of disease and the promotion of healthy lifestyles, and protection against cross-border health threats. the envelope for the health programme for the period 2014-2020 shall be increased by 5,7% compared to the previous perspective. this programme is an opportunity to improve the health system and that is why i was happy to support the report on it, and i am sure that entrepreneurs and institutions in the republic of croatia in the health sector will take advantage of the project funding opportunities opened up by this programme.
written. - i support this report because respect for human life is at the heart of human rights protection, and it is health that has the greatest impact on every aspect of human life, as well as on the quality of life. i support all kinds of investments in health because without a good health system, there is no sustainability, growth and development of society. however, a health program must take into account specific parameters that affect people's health, such as age, gender, diet, lifestyle, and so forth. prevention is paramount, but to be more effective, we need to think beyond the eu's borders, because they do not stop the risks of infectious diseases. it is therefore necessary to strengthen partnerships with neighbouring countries and help them to reduce the risk of the spread of the disease.
- the health sector in the european union is one of the largest sectors in the european union. almost 10% of the eu's gdp and one in ten workers comes from the health sector. the financial envelope for the 'health for growth programme' for the period 2014-2020 is eur 446 million, which is 5.7% higher than in the previous period. the funding is open to national authorities, public and private institutions, international organisations and non-governmental associations that may apply for potential co-financing of the initiative. the objective of this programme is to deliver added value to the health sector. this programme is fully in line with the europe 2020 strategy and encourages innovation and improvement of the overall quality of health services for eu citizens. i think this is a commendable program, and i think there are many challenges in the healthcare sector that need to be addressed. there are many problems in healthcare in the republic of croatia and i believe that this programme is good for certain institutions in croatia, that quality and innovative projects are selected for co-financing and contribute to the improvement of the healthcare sector in the republic of croatia.
written. - i regard the commission's proposal as positive because it supports a high level of health protection for the citizens of the union, which is achieved most effectively at that level, while respecting the principle of subsidiarity. i welcome the potential to increase the level of access to medical professionals and to the prevention and treatment of disease across national borders on the basis of values such as universality, high quality, equity of access and solidarity. in particular, i welcome the projection of growth and competitiveness of the health sector in the economies of the member states of the union, as i believe that it will also contribute to a more innovative and sustainable health sector, to increasing citizens' access to health care, to disease prevention and to the promotion of good health. that's why i supported this proposal.
mr president, i supported this report because i believe that it is important for the sake of our citizens to continue funding broadband networks and to move closer to the europe 2020 targets and the digital agenda. i support the commission's proposal to create a 'connecting europe facility' to promote the completion and achievement of the energy, transport and digital infrastructure targets. the commission shall propose guidelines for the development of european telecommunications networks with a view to supporting and investing in high-speed and very high-speed broadband networks for digital infrastructure, cef digital. these projects will contribute to improving the competitiveness of the european economy, encouraging small and medium-sized enterprises, promoting the interconnection and interoperability of national networks, creating new jobs and increasing gdp growth by 0,9% to 1,5%. it should also encourage private sector, public sector and institutional investment such as the european investment bank. we live in a digital age and we need to give our citizens access to fast and high-quality networks.
mr president, today as much as a fifth of the population of the european union does not have access to the internet. croatia is a little below the european average here, only 64% of households have access to broadband internet. that is why i have supported this report and the commission's recommendations to member states for the development of european telecommunications networks to support investment in high-speed and very high-speed broadband. while i support the commission's proposal and its target of having high-speed internet access for all eu households by 2020, i am not satisfied with the fact that the commission has drastically reduced the budget for this purpose from an initial 9 billion to 1 billion euros, as the achievement of this target is becoming really questionable. and if we're already promoting and investing in e-health, e-government, e-food, e-commerce, then we need to also enable all of our citizens to have equal access to these services. new systems and technologies need to be developed, but not in a way that creates new inequalities. if we insist on the digitisation of the public sector, then we must be clear that in such a system, access to the internet becomes a fundamental right of citizens.
mr president, i supported this report because it supports the importance of investing in fast and very fast broadband networks under the cef, which is a programme designed to promote development in the areas of energy, transport and digital infrastructure. in the area of building the digital infrastructure of the european union, the european union intends to promote projects necessary for the creation of a digital single market within the europe 2020 strategy that would facilitate access to public digital services such as e-health and identity acquisition. this appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the following measures: i am confident that these projects will contribute to improving the competitiveness of the european economy, promoting the interconnection and interoperability of national networks and creating new jobs and increasing annual gdp growth in the european union, which is our common objective.
written. - i support the initiative and i join the european union's positive attitude towards the development of new technologies in this great visionary endeavour. digital networks and services are becoming the infrastructure of the internet. the internet is not only changing the way we communicate and exchange information, it is also providing tremendous opportunities for economic growth. the commission should also be able to provide the member states with the necessary information to enable them to take appropriate measures to ensure the proper functioning of the internal market. the appropriations entered in this article are purely provisional and may be used only after transfer to other chapters in accordance with the financial regulation. i am extremely proud of my country which is well on its way to achieving this common goal. i support mr toschenovskýa's proposal and believe that the investment, although considerably less than envisaged, will be of immense help in transforming europe and improving the competitiveness of the european economy.
written. - the internet has radically changed the way we receive and analyse information, and has provided unprecedented opportunities for economic growth in terms of efficiency and competitiveness. it is therefore crucial that the european union takes a strongly positive stance towards developing these technologies and extending them to all parts of the european union, especially to rural areas where the necessary infrastructure is sometimes lacking. it is important to emphasise how fast broadband is a key element for the digital single market, while at the same time particular attention must be paid to maintaining a high level of security over the internet, especially as the amount of personal data we leave online grows. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the digital single market, in particular by ensuring that the union's digital economy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies and new services. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the digital agenda and will continue to monitor the implementation of the digital agenda.
mr president, as we heard in the previous point, information and services in the digital age are increasingly received via the internet. the number of public and private sector websites is increasing and today there are more than 760 000 public sector websites alone offering access to information and services. however, less than 10% of websites in the union are currently accessible in accordance with agreed standards facilitating access to services via the internet. the european union market for easy access to the internet consists of more than 175 000 companies and the turnover generated by around one million people employed in the online software development industry is estimated at approximately eur 144 billion. the economic impact for the union and the large gap that exists with regard to inaccessible websites make facilitating internet access a lucrative business in the social sphere with significant potential for growth and inclusion. in any event, it is necessary to facilitate internet access and further develop the internal market.
mr president, i supported the report on ease of access to online public sector services today, as it is an important step in the quality implementation of social inclusion policy. information on services, such as heating, water, electricity, postal and transport services, must also be accessible to persons with disabilities. the commission should also be able to provide information to the public on the use of the internet for the purpose of the provision of services to disabled people. this is why i supported the report which commits member states to apply uniform rules on the availability of information on public services via the internet and to make it available to all by 2018.
written. - the internet is a great tool for strengthening the transparency and accountability of public administration bodies. i would also commend the republic of croatia for opening the first online registry of lawyers and, recently, the online registry of state property, in terms of greater transparency. in this way, not only citizens but also the supervisory authorities can easily access the information they want. in an age of increasingly fast and accessible internet, data and services are available to a wider range of people, but for the internet to be truly free and public, websites must be adapted to be accessible to citizens with visual, hearing, ageing and other disabilities. that is why i support this directive which aims to make the websites of public administrations accessible to those citizens. i welcome this directive and particularly agree with the amendments that the necessary adaptations of websites also apply to mobile access, because in today's fast-paced world of smartphones and tablets people increasingly need information on the go and use the mobile internet.
written. - the european union is still in an economic crisis and despite the mild signs of recovery it is clear that a turnaround in economic policy is necessary to achieve stability, growth and employment. at present, commercial banks are the main source of eu funding, but to recover from the crisis, it will be necessary to find alternative sources of funding that will allow for long-term investment in the european economy. i believe that the innovative activities of smes can be a driver of economic growth and therefore they need to be given access to investment funds. we learn from past mistakes. the risk-taking must not endanger savers, businesses and taxpayers, and therefore a strict separation of commercial and investment activities is necessary. this is the only way to achieve a stable and sustainable european economy.
written. - i supported the report on the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the long-term financing of the european economy. the financial crisis has affected the ability of the financial sector to channel funds for long-term investment, creating a state of uncertainty and risk aversion. this has put enormous pressure on member states' economies and on small and medium-sized enterprises. to get back on track with economic growth and job creation, the european union needs long-term investment. the focus of investment should be on social infrastructure, research and development, education and innovation. it also requires investments in energy, transport, communication technology, services, and eco-innovation, which are also hugely important for economic growth and employment. measures to encourage long-term financing of the economy include facilitating access to finance for smes by developing non-traditional sources of finance, supporting the financial system in financing long-term investments (tax incentives) and increasing the capacity of institutions to channel funds for long-term investments.
written. - to put the european union back on the path to sustainable, smart and inclusive growth, significant, long-term and large-scale investment is needed. it is also necessary to ensure adequate long-term financing at a reasonable cost. at this point, it is very difficult to achieve a decent cost of financing as households and businesses are still recovering from the crisis, which has not fully ended in all member states, and are therefore more cautious and risk-averse, while governments are having problems consolidating public finances. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules. that is why i regret that not everyone recognized the shortcomings of the financial system before the crisis and made certain changes before the final vote. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the measures in question are necessary to address the specific needs of the financial sector. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the sale of the securitisation would have been carried out by a private investor.
written. - i supported the report by mr klinz on the long-term financing of the european economy. the long-term investments must be in line with the needs of the real economy in order to create the necessary foundation for sustained and sustainable economic growth and job creation, all with a view to achieving a competitive, sustainable and socially inclusive and innovative european union. in their absence, key infrastructure projects, r&d and innovation cannot be launched or successfully completed. in order to ensure that the union's financial interests are protected, the commission should be able to impose sanctions on the member states for the unlawful use of the financial system. the report identifies a number of alternative mechanisms such as: public-private partnerships (ppps), long-term public investors, regulatory efforts to ensure high-quality securitisation and others, which i believe can make a positive contribution to long-term financing. in many member states, access to capital for smes is greatly hampered by the fact that commercial banks continue to impose unduly burdensome conditions on them for financing investments, while ignoring the fact that smes are the foundation of economic growth and job creation, and i therefore support and believe that access to bank and non-bank financing should be facilitated for smes.
written. - i support this report because the global financial crisis and the sovereign debt crisis in the eu have damaged the financial sector's ability to channel savings towards the needs of long-term investment, and i believe that public investment plays a key role in stimulating economic growth and employment and provides a good signal for long-term and private investment. in the european union, some countries, like croatia, are facing major economic problems, rising unemployment rates, especially high youth unemployment rates, falling gdp, etc. we need to diversify the sources of investment and make capital available. it is also important to note that the eu's international competitors, such as the us and japan, have maintained high levels of public investment, while some eu policies have led to low levels of investment. we need to improve the financing system and ensure all the necessary conditions to stimulate economic growth. long-term investment provides the foundation for the social welfare and economic growth needed to achieve a competitive and sustainable future for the european union.
written. - i welcome the efforts of the rapporteur, who focuses on methods of ensuring sufficient long-term financing of the union economy in the wake of the global financial crisis and the debt crisis of the eu's national member states, which has significantly disrupted the financial intermediation process, as well as the ability of the european financial sector to channel savings into long-term investment. the rapporteur proposes a number of excellent measures such as public-private partnerships, long-term planning, regulatory efforts to enable high-quality asset securitisation and a number of other measures that can help to positively impact long-term investment. i voted in favour of that.
written. - long-term investment must be in line with the needs of our community's real economy in order to create the necessary foundation for sustained and sustainable economic growth and ultimately achieve the goal of all our economic strategies: a competitive, sustainable, socially inclusive and innovative european union. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the financial crisis has led to a deterioration in the financial situation of the union. in this respect, many member states of the european union face serious barriers to access to capital markets, or lack such a market at all, primarily due to excessive debt in recent years. in addition, in many parts of our community, small and medium-sized businesses have great difficulty accessing capital because commercial banks only grant them loans on unjustifiably unfavourable terms. these are serious obstacles to the smart, sustainable and inclusive growth we are striving for. the report by mr klinz includes a whole series of guidelines aimed at removing such obstacles, and i was therefore very happy to support it.
written. - prostitution is not just a public morality problem, it's a public health problem, and i'm going to agree with the reporter on that. i also agree that we must take significant steps in education and awareness raising to inform citizens of the risks they face by engaging in prostitution. the call for some member states to criminalise the purchase of sexual services, rather than the provision of prostitution services, is an example of a one-dimensional view of a rather heterogeneous issue. yes, prostitutes are often victims of human trafficking and live in a hell of drugs and prostitution from which they cannot escape. they're victims and they need our help. but there are also those who are consciously involved in prostitution and make a good living from it. to treat such prostitutes as victims is an insult to those who really are. in order to separate victims from perpetrators, the judiciary must make a clear distinction between them and approach the problem flexibly, which would not be possible if we decriminalized all prostitutes as the rapporteur suggests. that's why i voted against it.
written. - i support this report. developing countries are faced with an opportunity to profit from their natural resources. it is well known that valuable natural resources like oil, gas, minerals and timber are a major source of conflict in the world. i support the rapporteur in her view that a strategy is needed to address, among other things, the following challenges: how to address the causes of conflict over natural resources and how best to manage the environmental, social and human rights impacts of exploitation. multinational companies are important players in developing countries, and i think that these companies need to take on social responsibility and get involved in solving problems. it is also important that developing countries implement reforms and ensure environmental protection and human rights protection. the commission should also be able to provide information on the implementation of the union's policy on employment and social inclusion, including on the implementation of the union's policy on employment and social inclusion, and on the implementation of the union's policy on employment and social inclusion. we need to do more to protect human rights, to encourage the development of institutions in developing countries and to encourage the implementation of basic labour standards. we need to prevent smuggling and illegal activities so that developing countries can benefit from participating in international initiatives for sustainable sourcing.
written. - the current international trade and investment system has highlighted the difficulties developing countries face in achieving their national interests and sustainable development goals. the commission has also concluded that the measures provided for in this decision are in line with the principle of proportionality, as set out in article 107 (3) (c) of the treaty. the european union will adopt laws requiring european businesses to pay attention to the supply chain to ensure that they do not contribute to the financing of conflict or human rights abuses in the production and trade of natural resources. the eu regulation would be an important step towards ensuring sustainable and responsible access to key natural resources for these companies. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the commitments made by the member states in the context of the implementation of the eu-africa partnership agreement. accordingly, i support this proposal and call for the development of a broader approach, including development programmes that support institution building, the formalisation of the mining sector, the prevention of human rights violations and the implementation of basic labour standards. only then will the local population not need smuggling or rebel groups to provide for their basic needs, but will it pay off to participate in international initiatives for sustainable sourcing.
madam president, the fundamental idea of the european union was to prevent future war in europe, to prevent bloodshed in europe. but that's obviously only true for the rich countries of the west. the bloody conflicts of the 1990s were reserved for the former yugoslavia. yesterday it was ukraine. let's hope there's not a tomorrow. the consequences are the same everywhere, victims, poverty, a failed economy and the inability, the inability of the european union to prevent it. the united states is sending us a message by telephone about what they think of us. meanwhile, irresponsible, unscrupulous and criminal dictators use the mechanisms and forces of some of the past times and send snipers to their citizens or in another case the army to croatia. we've already spoken in this house about ukraine and the pressure russia is putting on it. there were a lot of harsh words and promises. and then i argued that the harsh words should be backed up politically and financially. it was then, it is now. ukraine definitely has its place in europe. let's help them.
mr. president, the mass protests of our time are strongly linked to the squares where the accumulated discontent erupts into political uprisings: tahrir, taksim and, of course, kiev's maidan. but ukraine is unfortunately poised to become a so-called "failed state" if internal relations continue to sour because of some new east-west conflict. thirty years ago, a country that found itself in a conflict zone like this would not have gotten out of it by democratic means and dialogue, but by force. i hope those days are over. the maidan demonstrates that processes are taking place today in the border areas of the european union that are just as important for the further development of the european idea as those taking place within the european union. i will support any political, economic and financial effort by the european union to help the ukrainians to find their own peaceful and sustainable way out of the deep crisis in which their country finds itself. but i see not only a dangerous division between the west and the east, but an even more dangerous division between the haves and the have nots. all of this calls for a thoughtful response to the question of how far russia and the european union can be partners in these areas and how far they remain rivals.
madam president, i support the european parliament's engagement and support for iraq. however, i would like to remind you of the intolerable treatment of women. according to human rights watch's latest report on iraq, iraqi authorities have illegally detained thousands of women and subjected them to relentless torture, including sexual abuse. women in prison have been beaten, beaten, electrocuted and raped. also, human rights watch consistently highlights in its reports the problem of high levels of corruption, especially in the military sector and the judiciary. we cannot turn a blind eye to these facts. geopolitics is a sphere full of contradictions, but we must be aware of the responsibility we have and we must make our positions clear.
mr. president, i could go on and on about why i disagree with this and similar resolutions, but i'm going to focus on just one detail instead. i notice that from session to session in this high house the list of so-called vulnerable groups grows. now it includes terror suspects. the resolution is also underscored by the fact that terrorism suspects have been given equal status in the chapter on the right to dignity with the poor, which is the fastest growing social group in europe today. in his advocacy for the rights of various minorities, the rapporteur forgets that in poverty all are equal, regardless of age, gender, nationality, race or religion. due to the rigorous enforcement of the law, people in croatia are left homeless who, according to liberal criteria often drawn up in this home, do not belong to the so-called vulnerable groups. they are of the majority nation, the majority religion, the majority sexual orientation, but they have still lost their homes. do you think that other cases have a preference over this one, just because they involve minority members? is there really room for positive discrimination in poverty?
mr vice-president karas, ms reding, mr commissioner, mr michel, you have produced a very comprehensive report on the situation of fundamental rights in the european union, where, after the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon and the legally binding charter of fundamental rights, we have entered a new, qualitatively higher stage of protection of fundamental rights in the european union. with regard to the range of elements you have mentioned, i think it is very good that the five years of the european union agency for fundamental rights have been a good signal and a source of objective and reliable data on the state of fundamental rights at the level of the european union, and it is good that croatia has been involved before it became a member. what i find particularly interesting in your report is this segment which calls for the establishment of a mechanism of its own to emancipate the copenhagen criteria for member states, 21 years after they were set as the fundamental values on which the union was founded as criteria for membership. croatia has lived for 20 years to meet these criteria. the european union's decision not to post-monitor croatia was interesting, based on lessons learned from the monitoring mechanism of the commitments for bulgaria and romania. there is now a proposal on the table which is directed at everyone, i.e. erga omnes, and i think we must be careful not to duplicate the work of the european court of human rights and the council of europe, and that the commission's proposal coming in march is very detailed in terms of the obligations of this mechanism.
vice-president of the commission. - mr[nbsp ]president, members, firstly, on the melo report: the commission takes very good note of the agreement reached between parliament and the council on this initiative of member states, introducing a european investigation order in criminal matters. this directive, if it is properly implemented and used, can be a good tool to fight cross-border crime and help to bring suspected criminals to justice. this directive seeks to replace the eu convention on mutual legal assistance and the european evidence warrant framework decision. i just wish to underline that the latter was adopted by the council in 2008, and implemented in two member states only. the commission hopes this time things will be different. it expects member states to implement the directive correctly and on time, so that it will not become a dead letter, as was the case with the european evidence warrant. recently the commission published a report on the implementation of three pre-lisbon framework decisions in the field of detention. these three eu laws focus on mutual recognition of sentences, pre-trial supervision orders and probation orders. the rules aim to improve mutual trust between judicial systems in europe, and this mutual trust is essential in order for a common european area of justice to function. despite the implementation dates being long past, about half of the member states have not transposed these framework decisions into their domestic law. the objective of developing an area of freedom, security and justice for all citizens, as laid down in article[nbsp ]3 of the treaty, can only be achieved if member states do properly implement the instruments they have agreed upon. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr[nbsp ]nuno melo, and his shadow rapporteurs for their very good work. the commission applauds their work in rebalancing this instrument, and in particular their strong advocacy for strengthening the fundamental rights safeguards it contains. this was very helpful and it once again highlights the importance of the european parliament in the co-decision procedure. on the report by sarah ludford: at a recent debate in this chamber, and on numerous other occasions, i have strongly defended the right of european citizens to freedom of movement within the eu. but open borders do not mean that criminals can evade justice simply by travelling to another member state. that is why we have the european arrest warrant – in effect since 2004. it is an efficient tool for surrendering people suspected of an offence from one eu country to another. it makes sure that neither suspects nor convicted criminals can hide in the european area of justice. we have many examples: dozens of suspected drug smugglers, murderers and child-sex offenders, for instance, have been brought back to the uk from spain in very short time[nbsp ]spans, and this would not have been possible before the european arrest warrant. likewise, thanks to the european arrest warrant, many suspected terrorists are now answering for their alleged crimes in the jurisdictions where they were wanted. the european arrest warrant is a very successful criminal justice instrument. that does not mean, however, that it is perfect or that these operations cannot be improved. the commission has said – and i recall the 2011 implementation report – that there is room for improvement, for instance, in order to avoid the use of the european arrest warrant for crimes that are not very serious, and paying due regard to fundamental rights. in this context, i would like to thank the rapporteur, ms[nbsp ]ludford, and the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe) for the work they have done and the expertise that has gone into this report. we will closely consider the issues raised in the report, which will feed into the permanent ongoing work on improving the european arrest warrant system. we are already in the process of addressing some of the issues raised by the report. for instance, on the issues around fundamental rights, the commission has worked to strengthen the rights of defendants. the now agreed directives on the right to interpretation and translation, on the right to information about rights, and on the right of access to a lawyer, constitute minimum standards throughout the eu. i only regret that some member states do not want to participate in this system of minimum rights throughout the eu, because these rights represent a counterbalance to the important tool of the european arrest warrant. for instance, persons subject to an arrest warrant will have a lawyer in both the issuing and the executing member state. if you do not apply the rules, then of course the people who are taken on a european arrest warrant will not have that right. that is why i regret very much that some member states do not want to participate in implementing these fundamental rights. the european parliament has been a driving force and a key partner in delivering the three directives on procedural rights. i want to thank parliament for that. i also welcome the start of the european parliament’s work on the commission’s recent proposals on legal aid, presumption of innocence, procedural rights for children and vulnerable suspects, which will also help to complete the procedural rights roadmap in the future and will be a good complement to the european arrest warrant. i would like to see all these instruments in place and being applied by all member states and i wish to close any remaining gaps in the protection of fair-trial rights across europe. in your report, the european arrest warrant is correctly placed in the wider context of the mutual recognition instruments – the framework decisions dealing with the mutual recognition of sentences, probation orders and pre-trial supervision orders. as i said at the beginning, the commission has adopted an implementation report in which we observed that these decisions have not been fully transposed by member states. against that background the commission considers that a decision to re-open the european arrest warrant would be premature. because, despite repeated calls by the commission to member states, the european arrest warrant has not yet received the benefit of full implementation of the complementary mutual-recognition instruments. once the commission has full infringement powers to act on the transposition and implementation of these instruments – and that will be the case from december this year – we will work towards full implementation. this will be the case in respect of instruments such as the european supervision order, which can help to reduce pre-trial detention in european arrest warrant cases. in your report, you also request eu funding for training and networks for the european arrest warrant. that request is most welcome and is already being met in a number of projects. we will continue these efforts. we also share the report’s focus on the importance of reliable data. to that end the commission has developed and agreed with member states a new questionnaire seeking european arrest warrant data. let me assure you that your valuable work will feed into our efforts on the common goal of improving the european arrest warrant system.
on behalf of the gue/ngl club. mr president, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteurs for their excellent, balanced and well-reasoned reports which improve this, in fact, irreplaceable, tool for tackling cross-border crime in europe. at the same time, the reports reveal some flaws in the functioning of these systems, and so do the statistics. for example, between 2005 and 2009, 50,000 such orders were issued and 11,000 were executed, or one fifth. the commission itself sees that there are shortcomings in the system and should propose improvements. it is the commission which is responsible for implementing these rules, and it is therefore its turn to be the first to propose improvements. i am sure that the legal framework for these rules is also a bit unclear, so that member states are often free to do what they think is right. if that framework is better regulated, it is certain that the execution rate of these orders will be higher.
madam president, i support the role of the european union in the field of criminal law and therefore believe that the directive on the european investigation order is a step in the right direction as it will make it easier to gather evidence in cases with a cross-border dimension. i also want to confirm here that the european arrest warrant is still the most successful mechanism that the european union has in criminal law. of course, there is room for improvement here, to harmonise practices within the european union and, above all, to avoid political influence when issuing or applying a european arrest warrant. however, the revision of the european arrest warrant should not result in lengthy trials or make it more difficult to extradite the accused. at this point, i believe that the emphasis must be on the duty of the member states to apply the european arrest warrant consistently, without political manipulation. here, for example, the case of the european arrest warrant that arrived in croatia last summer for two high-ranking officials of the former yugoslav secret police, showed how the structures of the totalitarian past are still influential. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the eu's new law on the protection of the financial interests of the union, the european parliament and the council, and the european parliament's role in the fight against fraud and corruption. the authorities in zagreb had to abandon the blockade of the european arrest warrant, they had to allow the courts, not the politicians, to decide the fate of former yugoslav secret police officials. it was a victory for the croatian rule of law and european values. today even the biggest eurosceptics and those who said that croatia entered the european union too early must admit that the murders of croatian emigrants would have remained unpunished if croatia had not become a full member of the european union on july 1. the final application of the arrest warrant therefore marked the beginning of a new european era for croatia in which no one should be above the law, and this is crucial for our future because there is no economic growth or social development without the rule of law.
the european arrest warrant is an important tool in judicial cooperation between member states, as it tackles the criminals who have skillfully hidden behind the slowness and wastefulness that have long been the hallmark of interstate coordination. for croatia this is a particularly important issue because its citizens and patriots have been victims of systematic persecution and liquidation by the former yugoslav intelligence service. i particularly welcome the part of the resolution in which it calls for cooperation between the member states and the commission to train judicial staff and legal experts in order to increase efficiency. the case from croatia in which a court decided to extradite perkovic to germany for the murder of croatian emigrant đureković, while the court whose territorial jurisdiction ends only 16 kilometers further did not extradite perkovic's superior mustac on the same charge shows how much we need to amend the framework decisions on the european arrest warrant.
mr. president, the situation in venezuela has for some time been demonstrating a strong erosion of civil liberties of democratic institutions, demonstrating a very dangerous trend of strengthening authoritarianism. particularly concerned is the lack of political dialogue and the new wave of violence. violence against students was unacceptable, and so was the misuse of the judiciary for political purposes to imprison political opponents. president maduro has now called a so-called peace conference venezuela really needs peace, but instead of calling for pr conferences, the authorities need to turn their backs on their cuban totalitarian mentors and turn their eyes to their own people, to their own citizens, venezuelan citizens they have the right to peace and democracy. [speech continues in spanish]
mr. president, due to heavy rains and melting snow several croatian counties have been struggling with flooding for almost all of february. after the ice cap captured the gorski kotar and caused a real elemental disaster, on february 11th, a crisis began with record high water levels in rivers and river channels that continues to this day. thousands of people are still cut off from the world, and the government is running out of food and drinking water. only the solidarity of the rest of the country with the affected counties and the hard work of the services and humanitarian organizations prevented greater tragedies. but despite superhuman efforts, the damage could not be prevented. in karlovac county alone, it is estimated at over 40 million kuna, while the situation in the area of sisak-moslavska county is even more alarming. i hope that the european union will join croatia in solidarity with the victims by approving funds from the european solidarity fund to restore normal life to the area affected by floods and ice as soon as possible.
mr. president, i appreciate your decision, but it seems to me that some speakers behind me asked for the floor, and i just wanted to convey a call for solidarity from citizens from the sisacko-moslavska county, karlovacka county and gorsky kotar that we visited with colleague plenkovic and other colleagues from hdz, and we wanted to convey their call for solidarity.
on behalf of the gue/ngl club. mr president, a single visa regime for all member states is actually something that would strengthen the unity of the functioning of our union and our image in the eyes of the rest of the world. we have to be equal to others, but then others have to treat us all equally. this is the position that should be taken by the diplomacy of the european union, but also by all the member states. we are only as strong as the weakest member, the smallest member of our community. the united states of america needs to understand this, switzerland needs to understand this. the 28 member countries should be treated as an entity and each of them should behave accordingly and avoid bilateral agreements with other countries. the issue of visas is of course a matter for the member states, but it would be desirable to devise a common european mechanism and rules for this procedure.
mr president, i support the commission's proposal to remove the link to the schengen area for moldovan citizens with biometric passports. despite the problems moldova faces, i believe that through their dedicated work and fulfillment of the criteria, they have met the conditions for visa waiver. the commission notes that the commission has not yet adopted a decision on the extension of the visa waiver for the period from 1 january 2015 to 31 december 2016. it is time for the union to respond with a positive measure. speaking of visa reciprocity, i would like to point out once again to the representatives of the commission and the council, in the context of the debate on the future of the european union's visa policy, that the member states are not visa reciprocal with third countries which do not require visas to enter the european union, but the reverse is not true. the united states of america is a case in point, whose citizens can visit all eu countries without a visa, while citizens of five member states, including croatia, need a visa to visit the united states. following the positive announcements by the commission, such as the recent abolition of canadian visas for czech citizens, i hope for the same result and the gradual achievement of full visa reciprocity for all member states of the union and its citizens.
mr president, we cannot on the one hand advocate mobility and say that it is one of the fundamental rights of the european union and on the other hand not help with the introduction of visas. so we need a single visa regime, no different criteria and this should be the common position of european foreign policy. i welcome, of course, today's decision on moldova but european visa policy cannot be viewed in isolation from other european policies, but of course security must also be taken into account. i would like to take advantage of this debate and ask the commission whether it will be advocating that all countries be treated equally when it comes to visas to the united states of america, since we know that five countries of the european union still have to have a visa to america, and croatia is one of them.
mr president, i thank you for the information the commission has given us. i also congratulate you on the progress that you have made with regard to moldova today. i believe that in the political circumstances we should make a step forward in terms of facilitating the visa regime for ukrainian citizens. i propose that the commission intensify its discussions with the united states on equal treatment for croatian citizens in obtaining visas, and also that it help the croatian government in its efforts to join schengen so that, as a new member, we have an external border and a short period of time until accession to the schengen system, because this is also one of those aspects that relate to the principle of european solidarity. as a member of the committee on budgets, i believe that the european solidarity fund should react quickly and help croatia to deal with the elementary disasters of the past month.
member of the commission. - mr president, first of all i would like to thank you for this very interesting debate and i would like to start with replies to some questions which you raised during this debate. first of all, on the enhancement of consular coverage, i must start by saying that the member states are responsible for organising the procedures relating to visa applications. the commission is not empowered to deal with organisational matters. member states decide on their own to open or close a visa section, conclude representation arrangements, set up a common application centre or to cooperate with external service providers. in any case, it is fair to say that we should not dramatise the situation. member states have done a great deal in the past few years. there has been a clear increase in consular coverage, mostly by concluding representation arrangements and cooperating with external service providers. hundreds of new representation arrangements and contracts with external service providers have been concluded in the past years. you may like or dislike outsourcing and you might have heard complaints about it, but as a matter of fact hundreds of thousands, if not millions, of applicants benefit from the fact that they do not have to travel a long way to capital cities to lodge their visa applications at a consulate. applicants do save considerable time and money. regarding the study on the establishment of a common european issuing mechanism for short-stay visas, i would like to say that the tampere programme already referred to the possible establishment of common eu visa issuing offices. interestingly enough, from my point of view it is absolutely understandable that, ten years later, the stockholm programme used a more careful wording by only referring to a study regarding a common european issuing mechanism for short-term visas. at this point in time, i am not entirely convinced that any such reference is appropriate in the future programme. this is not because the commission is not forward-looking or ambitious, but because of the fifteen-year development of the common visa policy and the upcoming visa package which, among other things, will, as the draft resolution says, be aiming at further harmonisation of the procedures and truly common rules. fifteen years ago, or even five years ago, the idea of common eu visa offices did indeed seem to be an interesting and valid response to the divergent practices of member states because, in theory, such common eu offices would lead to a truly common visa policy. however, this ultimate goal, which i fully support, might also be reached by truly common rules and their proper truly harmonised implementation. this requires a lot of effort but still less, in terms of costs in particular, than replacing the approximately 2[nbsp ]000 consulates that currently process schengen visa applications. at this point in time it seems sensible to wait and see the results of implementation of the revised visa code and the impact of the fully rolled out vis before revisiting the idea of common eu consulates. on reciprocity: a new more efficient reciprocity mechanism has been adopted by the co-legislators and has applied since 1[nbsp ]january. member states have notified cases of non-reciprocity and in six months time, on the basis of the new rules, the commission will have to come forward with measures suspending the visa waiver for the third countries concerned or present a report justifying why it does not propose such measures. finally, on ukraine: a visa liberalisation dialogue is ongoing with ukraine. as you know, ukraine has not yet met the benchmarks of the action plan, unlike moldova. the commission is ready to accelerate this dialogue and work with the ukrainian government. finally, the commission is looking forward to the discussions and exchanges on the visa package and hopes that both the council and parliament will make progress as quickly as possible on these important files so we can achieve a smarter common visa policy which increases the attractiveness of the eu and which responds to current and future challenges.
mr president, i support any project that aims to facilitate the entry of our companies into the common market, especially if it concerns small and medium-sized enterprises, which are the engines of economic recovery. while the development of such alternative solutions is desirable, i believe that our top priority is to work on informing and training employees in public administrations in order to reduce the amount of disputes in the application of european legislation. we also need to continue to work on reforming our justice systems as they are still too slow and ineffective in protecting citizens' rights. otherwise i do not think we will be able to make it too easy for our companies to enter the common market. the solvit network should be supported and further developed, but we must be aware that it is only a complementary tool in achieving our goal.
mr president, i support mr løkkegaard's report on solvitu because i believe that the benefits of the internal market can only be fully and effectively enjoyed by citizens and businesses if they are fully aware of their rights and opportunities. solvit has thus enabled a wide range of legal entities and citizens to help public authorities and other member states to use and consume existing rights at eu level and to make the single market work over the past decade, and shows good results, with statistics showing that 3023 cases, or 1238 cases, have been based on the solvit network of powers. for croatia, this is a very useful instrument where as a new member state we can take advantage of good practices and opportunities and use it as a 'one-stop shop' that will help especially our companies and our societies to take advantage of all the benefits of the single market, so i thank my colleagues for the report.
mr president, the european commission and the national service centres must particularly look to small and medium-sized enterprises. i think it's very important to make available more financial programs, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, it's very important to inform about a system that is complex. i think it's a good idea, as reported by løkkegaard, to have a layered approach and to have a monitoring function, through which the monitoring and effects of the programs we're talking about today, that is, solvit, can be done. as i come from croatia, i should say that the benefits of the internal market are exploitable and possible if, therefore, the results are better communicated to the media and better known, and by making more resources available, not only in the republic of croatia but throughout the european union, growth and a better functioning of the common market are made possible.
mr president, as we have heard, the role of women is very important in this sector, the fisheries sector. but there are two themes here: one is women's rights, the other is fisheries, and together they all lead to justice. it is clear that the way women who fish are treated is not fair. they should certainly be able to get equal rights, to get social protection, given that they work in very difficult climatic conditions and given that they are not well organized enough. i would also like to mention the men fishermen in croatia who are currently having problems with small-scale fishing, so they too cannot exercise their rights, and this is in a way an appeal to the commission to look at this regulation where small-scale fishermen in croatia can only fish for personal needs after 60 years, and in this way i want their voice to be heard here in the european parliament.
mr president, women in the european union make up just over 51% of the population. however, although they are the majority, women still belong to marginalized groups when it comes to politics, media representation through education, culture, sports and other activities and areas. the european union is working towards the three strategic objectives set out in the europe 2020 development strategy, namely smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. the achievement of these objectives requires knowledge, competence, innovation and high-quality human capital. one way to strengthen europe's competitiveness can be to increase the representation of women in all sectors of society, including the common fisheries policy. the pilot project will also provide information on the impact of the fisheries sector on the fisheries sector and on the impact of the fisheries sector on the fisheries sector. the european union must ensure equal rights that guarantee a better and stable future for women working in the fisheries sector, and i therefore welcome the report.
mr president, i thank the rapporteur for highlighting the role of women in european fisheries and for highlighting this largely neglected topic. their contribution should be recognised and initiatives to enable women to work and gain experience in this sector should be supported, while giving them full rights and social recognition. in croatia, women among professional fishermen are rare, but the fact that they are not formally registered as professional fishermen does not mean that women's participation in fishing activities is entirely exotic. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's financial instruments, including the european structural and investment funds, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's financial instruments. i hope that this debate will also contribute to agreeing on concrete measures to be financed through the recently adopted european maritime and fisheries fund and similar european funds. this would be an appropriate way to ensure that women in the fishing sector are supported, as they deserve it for their dedicated work.
written. - i support this report and the creation of a regulation on a common european law on the sale of goods, because i believe that this is an acceptable compromise solution in a situation where cross-border purchases are often hampered by significant differences between the laws of the member states. i consider it to be of common benefit to the eu as a whole and i support the fact that its application will be voluntary, as well as the introduction of sanctions for breaches of enforcement obligations and duties. moreover, in january this year i reacted to the unequal status of croatian consumers on the eu e-market and asked the commission what measures it plans to take to further protect them and give them the equal status to which, by accession of croatia to the european union, they are entitled. from september 2011 to february 2012, €401 million was spent on online purchases in croatia, and part of that money would have been saved by croatian customers ordering goods from another member state. i believe that the e-market is the future of shopping and its traders and customers should not be discriminated against in relation to regular shopping, and this regulation is a step towards harmonising the rules and therefore deserves support.
written. - i supported the report by mr lehne and mr berlinguer on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the common european law on the sale of goods (cesl). during the lithuanian presidency, this project was one of the council's priorities, which was pushed for rapid adoption despite the cautious approach of the european parliament. the aim is to align cesl with national legislation and the treaty of lisbon. the non-binding nature of this instrument is confirmed and it is concluded that cesl and national legislation can coexist. the scope of the tool has been reduced in relation to distance selling, but has been extended in relation to digital content through the inclusion of online contracts, and in line with the priorities of the europe 2020 strategy which aims to ensure inclusive and sustainable growth by enhancing the digital agenda of the european union. the level of consumer protection is in line with the lisbon treaty and is satisfactory from a legal point of view as it improves legal remedies for consumers. this trade-off will facilitate the business of smes and reduce costs and strengthen trade in the internal market. contract law is one of the epp group's priorities, and so is cesl, which i supported at first reading.
in writing. - i agree with the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on a common european sales law. contract law barriers prevent consumers and traders from fully harnessing internal market potential, in particular in distance selling. it is necessary to have a single uniform set of contract law rules in all member states in order to overcome these barriers. a common european sales law should represent an addition, increasing the choice available to parties and the possibility of its use whenever will help facilitate cross-border trade and reduce opportunity costs. it should become the basis when parties decide to use it. it would be advisable for the common european sales law to be available for cross-border contracts, to minimise complexity and additional costs. cross-border contracts should be determined on the basis of the habitual residence of both parties, in business to business relations.
written. - differences in the laws of individual countries make cross-border trade more complex and expensive than internal. the costs for smes to enter foreign markets can become twice as high as their overall earnings and they therefore very quickly give up their intention to engage in cross-border trade. the common european law on the sale of goods, which simplifies cross-border transactions in the single market, gives sellers the choice to sell their products in another member state under a single set of contract law rules that could be considered as an alternative to the national contract law in force in each member state. although the commission proposal covers a set of contractual rights, it does not regulate a number of important factors, and thus creates risks for business in foreign countries in the form of legal advice fees and the lack of provisions relating to the transfer of ownership. accordingly, i do not support the proposal for a common european law on the sale of goods because i believe that the creation of a new legal instrument with the possibility of leaving the choice in the hands of the seller could complicate the legal situation and discriminate against the buyer. i propose that the existing process of adapting consumer rights should be continued and improved.
mr president, i want to say that as a member of the committee on the environment and health i supported this proposal because this directive is very important and it is primarily about the health of our young people. what i am particularly pleased about is that menthol will not be allowed to be used in cigarettes in the next seven years, i am pleased that national legislation will have to transpose this directive into national legislation within 18 months, and i am also pleased that e-cigarettes have been given standard product status, that they will no longer be a medicine and will be sold only in pharmacies, but everywhere like regular cigarettes. anyway, personally, i'm totally against smoking, but i'm glad that a compromise was reached on the appearance of the cigarette box.
written. - the aim of this directive is to fulfil the world health organisation's obligations under the framework convention on tobacco control and to facilitate the functioning of the internal market for tobacco products, which emphasises the need for a high level of health protection, particularly for young people, which i supported. the report recognises the determination of the eu bodies to reduce the active and passive consumption of tobacco products, both in europe and in croatia, and i therefore support this report.
written. - it's sad to hear that smoking is the leading preventable cause of death in the eu killing about 700,000 people a year, and in the republic of croatia that number represents an annual loss of tens of thousands of people. the tragedy of this scale must be at the top of our priority list and must be addressed as soon as possible, and i therefore welcome the decision to amend this directive and to introduce a higher level of regulation and to ban practices which mislead consumers about the real effects of cigarettes. i think it is right that the discouragement of young people from smoking was the main objective when this directive was drafted, as studies have shown that most smokers develop the habit before the age of 18 and then only maintain it into adulthood, with prevalence rates among young people (15-25) 29% higher than for the general population. given the results of the previous directive adopted 12 years ago, which helped to reduce the number of smokers in the eu over the past decade from almost 40% in the eu15 in 2002 to 28% in the eu27 in 2012, i support a new directive that will try to deter union citizens from smoking with stronger health warnings and bans on packaging and flavors that are particularly attractive.
written. - i support this motion. it is estimated that in the republic of croatia, smoking kills about 14 000 people a year, which means that croatia loses a city the size of makarska or a third of the population of dubrovnik every year. the european union has taken measures that have reduced the number of smokers from 40% (eu15) to 28% (eu27) over the last decade. but despite the measures, the percentage of young smokers between 15 and 25 years of age is 29% higher than the rest of the population. i therefore believe that the european commission must focus on new measures to dissuade our citizens, and especially young people, from smoking. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. we need to raise awareness and responsibility among young people. i would point out that in croatia, one in three people smoke and that we need to do more to highlight this problem and do everything in our power to reduce the number of smokers and improve the health of our citizens.
written. - because of the worrying increase in smoking among the youngest, i support the proposal for a directive, particularly in the part where it prescribes a series of preventive measures relating to packaging and the health warnings that must appear on each package. i also support a ban on the manufacture and sale of cigarettes containing additives which are not necessary for their manufacture, given that these products are the most popular among young people and are an invitation to start smoking. given that a large number of croatian farmers are engaged in the production of burley tobacco, which requires the addition of various additives and flavourings due to the loss of sugar during the drying process, i welcome the provision that additives necessary for the production of tobacco will not be prohibited.
written. - some of the indisputable facts about prostitution are that it is mostly women who provide the services and men who buy. prostitution is therefore linked to gender inequality in society and has a negative impact on the status of women and gender equality. in the shadow of prostitution, organized crime, human trafficking, violent crime, and corruption flourish. many prostitutes are underage, and violence against prostitutes is increasing as demand for them increases. prostitution is a health problem. prostitutes have generally been exposed to violence before engaging in this activity, and most have been exposed to major social problems that have forced them into prostitution. the report also calls for the abolition of the death penalty, and for the abolition of the death penalty to be abolished. we need a framework that sets boundaries on sexual violence and exploitation of women, while also protecting women from the same. this report is a good compromise between the conflicting parties, who are on one side advocating legalization and on the other side advocating total prohibition. however, the longer the compromise is not accepted, the more girls and women are drawn into a cycle of prostitution from which it is impossible to escape without emotional and physical consequences.
written. - i support congresswoman honeyball's report on sexual exploitation and prostitution and its impact on gender equality. economic problems and poverty are the main causes of prostitution among young women and girls. social exclusion is a key factor contributing to the increased vulnerability of vulnerable women and girls and the current economic and social crisis is leading to high unemployment. the commission's data show that 62% of trafficking in human beings takes place for the purpose of sexual exploitation, and 80% of the victims are women and girls. in order to counter and suppress this form of organised crime with an international character, the croatian ministry of the interior has intensified activities with interpol, europol and the selec centre since 2002 within the framework of international police cooperation. furthermore, in february 2012, a new national plan to combat trafficking in human beings for the period 2012-2015 was adopted, which pays particular attention to further strengthening cooperation in criminal proceedings in cases of trafficking in human beings between the public prosecutor's office of the republic of croatia and the ministry of interior, improving methods of identifying victims of trafficking in human beings and ensuring the best interests of victims through better education, international cooperation and coordination of activities. the commission and the member states must find all possible ways and means to combat trafficking in human beings and sexual exploitation and to reduce prostitution, which is a violation of the fundamental rights of women, minors and gender equality.
written. - i support the above motion for a resolution on sexual exploitation and prostitution and its impact on gender equality. there are currently 40 to 42 million people in forced or regular prostitution globally. most of the people involved in prostitution are women and girls, while men are almost the only customers. prostitution is a living example of slavery that is incompatible with human dignity and fundamental human rights. human trafficking is growing globally because organized crime is growing in power. prostitution is associated with gender inequalities in society. prostitution functions as a business activity that connects various participants. human beings are reduced to the level of commodities or objects because the intimate act is reduced to a monetary value. the lack of reliable, accurate and comparable data, mainly due to the illegal and invisible nature of prostitution, does not lead to concrete figures, meaning that all figures are based on estimates only. this resolution should emphasize that forced or child prostitution must be more vigorously prohibited as it is the most serious form of prostitution. it is necessary that all eu member states develop a zero tolerance approach based on prevention, protection of victims and prosecution of all clients.
written. - with the accession to the european union, the republic of croatia became the 31st member of solvit and now we can solve problems with professional qualification, registration of company activity, placing your product on the market, opening a new company and the like quickly and cheaply, without court disputes, using this extremely important and useful tool that has been growing for years in the speed and efficiency of solving citizens' problems. still, there's always room for improvement, even here. further steps for the solvit network must be to further accelerate the handling of queries, in particular those from citizens and small businesses seeking to exercise their european right to mobility within the eu to seek or create jobs. also, it's important to spread awareness about the network itself. although the indicators indicate over ten thousand visitors a day, the survey cited in the report nevertheless showed that as many as nine out of ten respondents were not familiar with the service provided by solvit. i welcome the decision of the european parliament to launch awareness-raising campaigns on the network and its services in the member states. the use of new technologies to reduce administrative barriers for eu citizens should be encouraged and i believe that the development of such services is the right way to a more efficient, transparent and user-friendly europe.
in writing. - i agree with report on solvit. it is necessary nowadays to ensure citizens and businesses are able to gain information regarding their rights in the single market and the rules in place in different member states. the aim is to offer necessary assistance in solving cross-border problems. parliament has been dealing with this topic for a couple of years. solvit is an online network for the informal settling of cross-border disagreements concerning the incorrect and inaccurate application of single market regulations which occur between citizens and businesses. this network connects national solvit centres, located in member states’ national administrations and the commission. the overall goal is to improve the implementation capacity of european union law at national level and monitor the correct application of european union law. solvit as a platform has achieved tangible results. still, in order to reach a true solvit 2.0 version, much work is needed. solvit should be more widespread, in particular among the business communities. it is known that infringement procedures are often too slow, hence the need to speed the process. the commission should concentrate on exploring how to use the ‘naming and shaming’ principle to make member states implement single market legislation on time.
written. - i consider this report to be a perfect example of the union's original positive added value, because it addresses a subject that is most effectively addressed at union level. the main function of the solvit online network is to informally resolve cross-border disputes arising from the incorrect or incorrect application of certain common market rules. in practice, the network has become a surprisingly useful tool to prevent the excessive use of judicial systems, both in the member state and in the union, which i consider to be extremely positive. i welcome the part of the report which emphasises the need for citizens and the business sector to be aware of their rights in the single market and which, in this regard, calls on the commission and the member states of the union to launch an awareness-raising campaign through the promotion of the solvit network and portals such as your europe which improve the availability of information to citizens about their rights in the union market. i also believe it is very important to increase the cooperation between the solvit network of the member states of the union to take this successful project into an even more successful future.
written. - the proposed directive on the european investigation order aims to set up a comprehensive system for the taking of evidence in criminal cases with a cross-border dimension. the european investigation order directive aims to allow one member state to request another member state to carry out certain investigative measures to obtain evidence for the purposes of a criminal investigation based on the principle of mutual recognition. while this mutual recognition of the instrument should facilitate eu-wide cooperation, it also raises concerns about the protection of fundamental rights. for this reason, i am very pleased with the agreement reached on the relevant issues in the committee and i support the efforts of the s&d group members to ensure the protection of fundamental rights. the commission has also proposed that the european investigation order be amended to include the following elements: i also support parliament's efforts to introduce an article on the protection of personal data and to restrict access to personal data in accordance with data protection regulations. in the light of the inappropriateness of traditional judicial cooperation in the current european context, a step forward towards the adoption of this directive is undoubtedly a positive factor that will certainly help consolidate the construction of the european criminal area.
written. - i supported the report by mr mel on the draft directive of the european parliament and of the council on the european investigation order in criminal matters because i believe that the directive will successfully replace the traditional system of cooperation which has shown its shortcomings in terms of complexity and slowness of proceedings. it is an important report, the result of 12 trialogue sessions during which it was necessary to reconcile the differences existing at the legal and constitutional levels of the member states as regards the definitions of criminal offences, and it was also important to take care of the principle of proportionality. given the lack of alignment between the traditional system of cooperation and the real needs of today's society, i believe that the report by mr mele represents a positive step towards the advancement of the european area of freedom, security and justice. the european investigation order in criminal matters, as presented here, is very well matched to the need to build a homogeneous european area in criminal matters with the necessary protection of citizens' fundamental rights. i think it would be a good instrument in combination with a european arrest warrant. i believe that this new instrument, with respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, will certainly enable more effective investigations in criminal matters when it comes to crossborder crime, terrorism, murder, drug trafficking and corruption.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the directive of the european parliament and of the council regarding the european investigation order in criminal matters. freedom, security and justice are main values of european union. judicial cooperation in criminal matters is based on the principle of mutual recognition of judicial decisions and judgements. the two frameworks 2003/577/jha and 2008/978/jha have proved that the existing framework is too fragmented and complicated, emphasising that a new approach is necessary. the stockholm programme is oriented to obtain evidence in cases with cross-border dimensions. this approach is called the european investigation order. the purpose of the eio is to have several specific investigative measures in an executing state with a view to gathering evidence. even though it has a horizontal scope, it requires specific rules which are better dealt with separately. the focus should be on the investigative measure which has to be carried out. the eio should be used where the execution seems appropriate and applicable to the case in hand. the eio should encourage including at least one other language often used in the european union, other than the official language.
written. - the gradual abolition of border controls within the eu has greatly facilitated the free movement of european citizens, but it has also made it easier for criminals to operate across borders. i supported this motion because i believe that ensuring the protection of the rights of victims, suspects and prisoners in the union, even if they cross national borders, is a fundamental right of citizens. in short, it means achieving cross-border justice. this directive lays down rules on the execution of investigative measures at all stages of criminal proceedings, including the trial stage, where necessary with the participation of the person concerned, with a view to the collection of evidence. progress must be based on the principles of mutual recognition, coordination of investigations and protection of fundamental rights in criminal matters, while respecting the measures defined in article 82 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
mr president, i would like to welcome this report and to highlight in particular the efforts made by the moldovan authorities to advance relations with the european union. by lifting the visa requirement for millions of citizens, we are sending a strong symbolic message that the direction the european union is heading is a very good one. the social group that should benefit most from this decision is certainly the young. the european union must not close its doors to educated, highly qualified people who are eager to learn and gain experience. the aim of the project is to develop a european network of youth organisations and to promote the exchange of information and best practices in the field of youth policy. we are also sending a very strong message to other countries by putting moldova on the positive list of countries. not only will it be easier for young moldovans to travel and gain knowledge and experience in europe, but i hope that other countries will follow this example.
written. - i supported this proposal because it aims to change the lists of countries whose citizens must have a visa when crossing the external borders and those who do not. the commission has also received comments from the exporting producers concerned. we know that moldova has made significant strides in recent years and has carried out significant reforms within the country. given the country's geopolitical position and recent developments in its neighbourhood, the european union has an opportunity to help, or transform, the lives of many people in moldova. the commission notes that the decision to grant the union's macro-financial assistance to moldova was taken in accordance with the procedure laid down in article 108 (2) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
written. - i support this proposal to establish a list of countries whose citizens require a visa to cross the external border and those who are exempt from this requirement. i would like to support once again the abolition of visas for entry into the schengen area for moldovan citizens who, despite the difficulties, have met the conditions for visa abolition. i agree that visa-free travel is important not only because it will facilitate entry into the schengen area, but also because it will help to create human contacts which are an essential condition for the continuing development of economic, cultural, scientific and other links. freedom of movement is one of the fundamental values of the european union and for that reason i support this report and welcome the deepening of relations with moldova.
written. - i agree with the above suggestion. this proposal recognises the progress made by the republic of moldova in visa liberalisation over the last three years. it is proposed to move the republic of moldova from annex i (list of countries whose nationals must be in possession of visas when crossing the external borders of the eu) to annex ii (list of countries whose nationals are exempt from the visa requirement when crossing the external borders of the eu). the european union attaches particular importance to mobility and visa liberalisation with partner countries that have ensured all the conditions and for which a sufficient level of security has been achieved. i come from croatia, the youngest member of the european union, which has 1350 km of external border of the european union (bih, serbia and montenegro). this is therefore a matter of great importance for the republic of croatia, but also for the whole of the european union.
written. - as the republic of moldova has shown significant progress in visa liberalisation dialogues over the past three years by addressing important issues such as security of documentation, irregular immigration, security and public order, and external relations and fundamental rights, i voted in favour of the commission's proposal to lift visas for moldovan citizens holding biometric passports. i support all democratic processes in moldova that result in the rapprochement and deepening of relations between moldova and the union.
written. - i welcome the eu-indonesia voluntary partnership agreement on forest law enforcement, management and trade as it seeks to prevent illegal logging of timber and timber products from indonesia destined for the eu. the commission has also concluded that the wood product certification process is not a new approach to the assessment of wood products. the commission has also received comments from the indonesian authorities, which have not provided any evidence to support its view that the indonesian forestry sector is not a viable option for the union. i agree that this is an important step by the eu to improve sustainable forest management globally and that the agreement sets new standards for indonesian forest management. i also think it's important to support this agreement because it serves as an example of an international effort to stop deforestation and forest devastation.
in writing. - i agree with the suggested report regarding the agreement between the european union and the republic of indonesia. the aim of the voluntary partnership agreement (vpa) between the eu and indonesia is to establish a legal framework that will improve the traceability of timber products and establish a verification procedure certifying timber products being shipped into the eu market. the vpa is an important actor for the eu as it aims to enhance and sustain management of forests at a global level, stop deforestation and forest degradation and protect against unfair competition. the vpa sets new criteria for management of indonesian forests, as many commercial concessions providing timber from indonesia are illegally acquired.
in writing. - indonesia is the first and the largest timber exporting country in asia to sign the flegt-vpa with the eu. the flegt-vpa aims to halt the trade of illegal timber and ensure that only verified legal timber and timber products are imported to the eu from indonesia. the agreement concerns a licensing system for timber products exported from indonesia to any of the 28 eu member states, based on the wood legality verification system (svlk), the first national timber legality assurance system in the world to be implemented based on flegt principles. once the flegt-vpa is fully operational and flegt licenses are issued, indonesian timber products will be acknowledged to be in full compliance with the eu timber regulation number 995/2010, which prohibits the placement of illegal timber on the eu market. operators and traders will not have to conduct a due diligence process on timber legality for flegt licensed products. i welcome this agreement which is a significant breakthrough that represents the strategic cooperation between producing and consuming countries.
written. - although it is a technical file, i would like to emphasize that these are small but important steps when it comes to freedom of movement for all citizens of the old continent in the european union. i would also like to point out that europe should strive to ensure that citizens who hold documents from a non-member country in europe, for example kosovo, are not treated differently in the member states. freedom of movement is one of the fundamental values of the european union. i would venture to say that that value is a little undermined today by economic conditions. the european parliament should be committed to the continuous protection and promotion of the value of freedom of movement. and by doing so, we're sending a clear message to our citizens, but also to other countries that may not realize that the mobility of citizens, from workers to students, is one of the key drivers of the economy in today's globalized world.
written. - in croatia, as the newest member of the eu, we take control of the union's external borders seriously. it is therefore of great importance to adopt common rules in order to simplify the system of checks on persons at the external borders by recognising the documents of other member states as equivalent to national visas. croatia is making significant efforts to fulfil the conditions leading to the accession of the other member states to the schengen area and the final application of the schengen acquis. the launch of eurosur last december strengthened controls at external land and sea borders. i supported this report because i believe that by implementing the simplified control system established by this directive, we are one step closer to harmonisation with the rules of the european union and to safer borders.
written. - croatia has a special role in relation to the control of persons mentioned in the report, as it represents one of the external borders of the european union. the border controls on citizens of the european union crossing the national border shall be carried out only by means of basic border checks, whereas those on third-country nationals shall be carried out by means of thorough border checks. i support this report which seeks to reduce the administrative burden on croatia and which establishes a simplified system to be applied for the transitional period. i also agree that, in order to achieve this objective, it is necessary to adopt common rules allowing croatia to recognise unilaterally documents issued by member states fully applying the schengen acquis as equivalent to national visas. on the basis of that unilateral equality, it is also necessary to establish a simplified system of supervision.
written. - i support the report by ms tanja fajon on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council introducing a simplified regime for the control of persons at the external borders based on the unilateral recognition by croatia and cyprus of certain documents as equivalent to their national visas for the purpose of transit or intended stays on their territories not exceeding 90 days in any 180-day period and repealing decision no 895/2006/ec and decision no 582/2008/ec of the european parliament and of the council. croatia joined the eu in july last year and has to adapt to the schengen agreement, which means adopting regulations regulating the control of persons at the external borders. the report emphasises that the holders of documents issued by the member states do not pose any risk to croatia as they have passed all the necessary checks in those states. the aim is to avoid unnecessary administrative procedures and to that end it is necessary to adopt common rules allowing croatia to recognise certain documents unilaterally. it is also necessary to simplify the system of control of persons at the external borders. the visa applicant shall be entitled to travel to the territory of the member state of the issuing member state for the purpose of obtaining a visa.
written. - i support this motion. it is proposed to introduce a simplified regime for the control of persons at the external borders based on the unilateral recognition by croatia and cyprus that certain documents are equivalent to their national visas for the purpose of transit or intended stays on their territories not exceeding 90 days in any 180-day period. i come from croatia, and that is why this proposal is of particular interest to me. the visa waiver is granted to nationals of third countries who are not nationals of the member state of entry and stay, and to nationals of third countries who are not nationals of the member state of entry and stay. in order to avoid imposing an unjustified administrative burden on croatia, it is necessary to adopt common rules allowing croatia to recognise unilaterally certain documents issued by member states and to establish a simplified system for the control of persons at the external borders. these are only technical changes and simplifications to the eu's external border regime.
written. - as a representative of croatia, the new member state of the union, i am aware of the need for the systematic adjustment of the republic of croatia to the schengen area and the conditions that this adjustment requires in the meantime. i consider it necessary and justified to require that croatia must issue national visas for entry into its territory to third-country nationals who hold a single visa or a long-stay visa or a residence permit issued by a member state fully applying the schengen acquis, as well as similar documents issued by cyprus, a member state not yet fully applying it. i consider that the commission's request does not expose croatia to any additional risk, given that the persons who obtained visas in this way have passed all the necessary checks in the member states fully applying the schengen acquis. so i supported the report.
written. - i support the proposal of the european commission to update the regulation establishing the list of third countries whose nationals must be in possession of a visa when crossing the external borders of the member states and those which are exempt from this requirement. i also support this proposal to exempt from the visa requirement the nationals of the following caribbean and pacific island countries: dominica, grenada, kiribati, marshall islands, micronesia, nauru, palau, saint lucia, saint vincent and the grenadines, solomon islands, samoa, east timor, tonga, trinidad and tobago, tuvalu and vanuatu, as those countries have been moved to the positive list. visa liberalisation is of great importance to citizens and will thus allow for greater freedom of movement. but i agree that before the exemption takes effect, bilateral agreements must be concluded and reciprocity fully ensured. finally, i support this proposal with the aim of developing a common immigration policy while contributing to strengthening the relations between the european union and the countries mentioned.
written. - i support the above regulation on the exemption from the visa requirement for nationals of the following pacific island countries: dominica, marshall islands, palau, saint lucia, vanuatu, etc. in order to ensure full reciprocity between countries and citizens of all countries in the event of a stay of more than three months, it is necessary to ensure consistency for the visa waivers. the commission proposes to lift the visa requirement for all uk citizens, even non-citizens. the european commission has concluded, on the basis of separate assessments by each of the countries concerned, that there are no longer grounds for issuing visas to their nationals. the aim of this proposal is to develop a common immigration policy while strengthening relations between the european union and the countries concerned.
written. - i supported the proposal to amend regulation (ec) no 539/2001 which justifies the need for proportionate action by the european union, based on reciprocity criteria. the caribbean island countries, the pacific island countries and a special category of british citizens pose no threat to the european union, either in terms of illegal immigration or in terms of public security. visa liberalisation is of great importance to citizens. the visa liberalisation will reduce the time and costs of preparing for travel to the schengen area. the visa waiver also facilitates contacts between citizens, which is a crucial precondition for ensuring the development of economic, cultural, scientific and other relations. the visa regime also contributes to strengthening contacts between peoples and gives substance to the principle of free movement, which is one of the fundamental rights of the european union.
mr. president, the tensions and confrontations in ukraine have, in various forms and categories, reached their peak, but unfortunately, not their end. the internal drama in ukraine has become an arena for testing the strength of the european order of security and stability. will this strength be reflected in encouraging and supporting opposition forces and harsh rhetoric towards moscow or perhaps cooperation in building and strengthening the security system in europe and a resumed dialogue in building a new model of eu-russia relations. a model that would determine mutual interests and of course the interests of ukraine itself. the challenges in this complex political and other situation are great, but i believe that the european union has the strength and the wisdom to meet all these challenges.
written. - unfortunately, all those who point to ukraine today as a dangerous and unpredictable place are right. since putin became president again, russian pressure on the so-called guam countries (georgia, ukraine, azerbaijan, moldova) has not abated. he was the prime minister in bucharest in 2008 at the nato council meeting russia said that ukraine is an "artificial creation". as far as the west is concerned, no one has yet assessed ukraine as an artificial state, so the ukrainian military can already know who is really threatening the country's territorial integrity. however, recent events have also called for a thoughtful response from brussels to the question of to what extent russia and the eu are partners and rivals in the same sphere today. ukraine is set to become a failed state, as are some other post-soviet transition countries, if internal relations continue to deteriorate and as a result of a new cooling between east and west. analysts recall that a country that found itself in such a conflict zone 30-40 years ago could be sure that its fate would not be decided by democratic means, dialogue and the rules of international law. i hope those days are over.
written. - as one of the sponsors i supported the adoption of the european parliament resolution on ukraine. i expressed solidarity and regret with the victims and supported the efforts of the majority of the ukrainian people for a european path and reforms. in view of the new circumstances of the crisis, i welcome the functioning of parliament and the moderate moves of the institutions and the people. i supported giving a clearer perspective to ukraine to become a member of the eu in the long term when it meets the criteria. i have advocated respect for ukraine's sovereignty and respect for international law.
written. - first of all, i want to salute the courage of the ukrainian people and ukrainian citizens who have defended the right of ukraine to its sovereignty, independence and european perspective. the european parliament delegation and the eu supported these goals, but ukrainian citizens were the bearers of resistance to the anti-european policy pursued by former president yanukovych under external pressure. i do not, therefore, underestimate the possible moves of moscow or the dangers arising from the internal divisions in society. however, i believe that the eu must now adopt concrete measures of political and financial support so as not to leave ukrainian citizens alone in this delicate situation.
written. - i support this resolution. the people of ukraine have shown will and determination, and many people have been killed and wounded in the struggle for freedom. my sympathy goes out to the families of the victims, and i condemn all forms of violence, as i come from croatia, which 20 years ago fought for freedom and independence against the greater serbian aggression. i agree that we should be asking what ukraine needs, not what we as the european union want. we are facing a situation of extreme urgency and the european union must act quickly by promoting an open door policy which includes unification but also reforms. the union should work towards an economically stable ukraine, but the ukrainians should be recognised as having the sovereign right to decide their own destiny. we must pay tribute to the people of ukraine and the courage of the men who died fighting for freedom. they must not be distracted by the mind and interests of russia, which must decide whether to destabilize the neighborhood. still ringing in the ears is the statement of the russian president who once said: "the greatest geopolitical tragedy of the 20th century was the collapse of the soviet union". ukraine needs a government that is committed to economic and political reforms, but also involves all international actors while recognizing ukraine's sovereignty, territorial integrity and regional, cultural and linguistic diversity.
written. - with russian tanks on the streets of sevastopol, a president on the run, and an opposition that has yet to prove its capacity to govern such a complex state, i believe it's not an exaggeration to say that ukraine is in deep trouble. i believe that extending a hand to a neighbour who is facing so many problems is a good and conscientious move, but i would like to call on the eu representatives involved in the settlement of the situation in ukraine to never forget that president yanukovych was legally elected and that, as much as some of us sympathise with pro-european political forces, there are a significant number of ukrainians who are uncomfortable or at least reserved about the seizure of power by the current opposition. although it seems to me that russia is not playing any constructive role in resolving the political crisis in ukraine, the european union cannot afford the luxury of such behaviour. we must do everything to ensure that the next elections in ukraine are democratic and fair, and that the winner, regardless of sympathies, should not be chosen by us.
written. - i express my concern about the general situation in iraq, and particularly the recent attacks in which numerous innocent civilians have been killed and injured. i support the eu's commitment to help iraq in its transition to democracy because we need to build a secure state, not only to protect the iraqi people, which is of paramount importance, but also to maintain security in the region. i welcome the efforts made so far by the union in the field of mobilising emergency humanitarian assistance for the affected population and call for them to be further strengthened. croatia intends to continue to participate in international efforts to stabilise iraq and to create the preconditions for the long-term stability of iraq. through the nato training mission, croatia has participated in the equipping and training of the iraqi armed forces.
written. - i support the report by the high representative catherine ashton on the situation in iraq, in which the european union expresses its concern at the situation in iraq, the severity of which is shown by the figures published by the united nations assistance mission for iraq (unami), according to which at least 733 iraqis were killed and 1,229 people were injured in terrorist attacks and violence in january 2014. some 63,000 families have been displaced by the ongoing conflict, many having fled to other countries, and those who remain live in very poor conditions. the eu wants to help iraq in its transition to democracy and strongly condemns the attacks on the civilian population. to this end, the first meeting of the eu-republic of iraq cooperation council was held in brussels in january. the elections scheduled for april this year are a significant part of the continuing democratic transition in iraq. it is necessary to emphasise that the unity and territorial integrity of iraq are essential for the construction of a secure and prosperous state and for the stability of the entire region. i welcome the programme launched on 22 january 2014, funded by the eu and implemented by the un office for project services, aimed at promoting and protecting human rights in iraq.
written. - i voted for the iraq resolution, which strongly condemns the recent terrorist attacks and the new wave of violence. european diplomacy must support the efforts of the iraqi government and the un mission to protect civilians, particularly in fallujah. it is also imperative that the iraqi government put much more effort and answers to the legitimate questions of the sunni minority in iraq. special emphasis should be placed on the protection of christians in iraq who continue to be targeted by extremist groups.
written. - i support this motion. according to the latest un figures, 733 iraqis were killed and more than 1,200 were wounded in january 2014, and these figures do not include casualties from the conflict in anbar province. the situation in iraq is difficult, there is great insecurity and violence. internal political tensions are a major contributor to the deterioration of security in iraq. in this resolution, the european parliament strongly condemns all forms of terrorism. parliament also expressed concern at the security situation in iraq, the increase in terrorist activities and the continuing escalation of violence. i believe that the iraqi authorities must confront the terrorist threat, that they must protect the civilian population and do everything to maintain public order and peace. i believe it is particularly important that those responsible for violence and terrorism are prosecuted and that the iraqi authorities do everything possible to establish the rule of law. the european parliament encourages political and religious leaders to engage in dialogue and reduce violence. the european union and the un want to help iraq to solve its problems, especially in the areas of strengthening human rights and the rule of law.
in writing. - since the departure of us forces in 2011, the situation in iraq has steadily worsened. the current spiral of violence was ignited by the killing of major-general mohammed al-karawi, commander of the iraqi seventh army division, on 21 december 2013. in response, the iraqi government launched operations to clear a protest camp in ramadi that had reportedly been transformed into a headquarters for al-qaeda leaders. i would note with extreme concern that vulnerable groups and all religious communities, including christian minorities, are frequently targets of violence, which instils in the population a deep sense of fear and uncertainty about their future. therefore i support the council’s deep concern over the deteriorating security conditions in iraq and the terrorist threat, and support initiatives to reaffirm the eu’s commitment to assist iraq in its transition to democracy. furthermore, i underline the importance of the april elections and the good progress in implementing the eu-iraq partnership and cooperation agreement.
written. drones are a technological innovation whose use we must make a decisive decision. as with any new technology, like dynamite in the nineteenth century or nuclear energy in the twentieth, with this one we have a responsibility to try and use it as a society to build and advance society, not to destroy and kill. on the one hand, the use of drones for cross-border attacks has increased in this short period. thousands of civilians have already been killed or seriously injured by drone attacks, and many experts have already condemned the lack of accountability and transparency in the use of drones for deadly missions. on the other hand, a positive example of the use of drones can be seen in the current crisis in the republic of croatia due to the large floods these days, all dams in the area are being inspected with the help of drones to determine their condition and improve surveillance in this crisis situation. i hope we can agree that, in the case of drones, which is becoming an increasingly important issue, we need to build the necessary legal regulation to monitor and regulate their activities.
written. - the use of armed drones leads to legal and ethical dilemmas for several reasons: they are considered to be a cheaper and more accurate type of aircraft that supposedly reduce innocent victims and collateral damage. however, there is no consensus on how to apply international law to deadly attacks by armed drones. recently, the un released two reports on the use of drones in counterterrorism and its implications for the right to life. in this regard, it is important to increase transparency and accountability in the use of drones. i agree with high commissioner catherine ashton that drone strikes must be in line with international law and i welcome the continuation of the informal dialogue between the eu and its member states with the us to define a common position on this issue.
written. - i support this motion. in the last decade, the extraterritorial use of drones with deadly consequences has been steadily increasing. thousands of civilians have been killed or seriously injured as a result of drone strikes. i believe that there is not enough transparency and that there are often no adequate investigations into incidents arising from the use of such aircraft. we need to ban extrajudicial targeted killings using these weapons and i think the european commission should show data on all research and projects related to drones that are funded by eu funds. we need to create a legal framework for the use of armed drones to prevent misuse and increase transparency.
in writing. - the use of drones in armed conflicts has increased significantly in recent years, raising humanitarian, legal and other concerns. most military drones are used for intelligence gathering, surveillance and reconnaissance, as well as target acquisition. under international humanitarian law – the rules of war, i.e. the set of laws governing armed conflicts – drones are not expressly prohibited, nor are they considered to be inherently indiscriminate or perfidious. in this respect, they are no different from weapons launched from manned aircraft such as helicopters or other combat aircraft. it is important to emphasise, however, that while drones are not unlawful in themselves, their use is subject to international law. it is worth pointing out that not all drones are actually armed and used to fight. unarmed surveillance drones can be used for a range of civilian purposes. they can, for example, help detect fires and therefore save lives, or to be used to collect vitally important information for relief personnel working in areas affected by natural disasters. in the future, drones might also help deliver emergency aid in remote areas. in this regard, i voted in favour.
mr. president, i voted against this report, and i feel the need to say why. i voted because i believe that all the institutions of the european union, in cooperation with the national institutions of the member states, should ensure the enforcement of existing laws and existing provisions on fundamental rights. i also believe that there is no need for a new copenhagen mechanism at the moment, but i am advocating for a more consistent application of the existing copenhagen criteria, with the same monitoring after the accession of new member states to the european union.
written. - unfortunately, it has been shown that during the economic crisis in some member states there have been violations of rights, in particular the rights of minorities, immigrants, members of the lgbt community, women, people with special needs, socially most vulnerable people, etc. this is why i supported this report it drew attention to this worrying trend and condemned all forms of discrimination. fundamental freedoms, rights and equal opportunities should be guaranteed to all citizens of the european union irrespective of their sexual, religious, ethnic, age or language identity. the commission is also proposing to establish a european data protection supervisor, to be responsible for the management of the data protection rules and to be responsible for the management of the data protection rules. finally, a very important part of the report is the emphasis on the increased role of regional and local authorities in promoting and safeguarding eu fundamental rights.
the european union, a political project that emerged in response to the second world war, persecution and repression of individuals by totalitarian regimes, in order to root democracy and the rule of human rights in the member states, is today going through a period of democratic and constitutional crisis as shown by recent events in some member states. i believe that we need to restore the faith of the citizens of the union in fundamental rights and equality, where 25% of women and girls will not suffer physical violence at any time in their lives, where children and people with disabilities will have access to all institutions of their interest and will not be marginalized by society, and where members of the lgbt community will be able to express their views freely. i therefore support the proposal to revise the existing copenhagen mechanism before creating a new one with the aim of respecting, protecting and promoting the union's fundamental rights and values. the new copenhagen mechanism should aim at monitoring compliance with the copenhagen criteria in order to further improve the exercise of the fundamental rights of union citizens.
written. - one of the fundamental values of the european union is democracy so as to make it impossible for any form of authoritarian rule to return. human rights and freedoms are also fundamental pillars of the european union. together with the treaty of lisbon, the charter of values and principles forms the legally binding basis for the institutions, bodies and agencies of the european union. members should respect democracy, the rule of law and fundamental human rights as enshrined in the european convention on human rights and the charter of fundamental rights in order to promote freedom, security and justice. the harmonisation of national legislation will allow for the transfer of cases and fair trial in all member states. it is necessary to ensure that national authorities have at their disposal mechanisms to identify whether the justice systems of some member states are lacking. the european parliament must focus on strengthening the mechanisms for respecting, protecting and promoting the european union's core values. the commission has identified the need to strengthen the rule of law in the european union in order to base european union policy on clear rules and mechanisms. in opposing this report, i make it clear that all the activities just mentioned need to be carried out more efficiently with far greater care in order to better fulfil human rights. i strongly condemn any obstacle to the same. so i believe that further efforts will be much more acceptable.
written. - i fully support the report on the recommendations to the commission on the revision of the european arrest warrant. the area of substantive criminal issues, and therefore the procedural part thereof, falls within public law. as such, it is of interest to the wider social community and is the subject of the european acquis. because of the importance of the application of the european arrest warrant in pan-european criminal cooperation, i consider it to be a key institution that should be discussed in order to bring it into line. the european arrest warrant is also special because it is unified in the legislation of the european union, and we know that this is not the case with all the institutions of both procedural and substantive criminal law of the member states of the union. that is why we are talking about harmonisation, not unification of criminal law standards. what i consider to be a high quality aspect of this report is its indicative presentation of the elements of weakness of this institution that may in some situations cause legal uncertainty and its invitation to the commission to submit legislative proposals to address those weaknesses within the time limits provided for in the regulation. i would also like to stress the advantage of the proper application of the european arrest warrant in terms of creating a european judicial culture. however, i note that the revision of this procedural institution must remain an instrument of rationalization, efficiency and cooperation based on respect for the rights of the parties guaranteed by international agreements.
written. - i have supported the report of baroness sarah ludford with recommendations to the commission on the revision of the european arrest warrant. the eun has an important role to play in the framework of judicial cooperation in criminal matters. by replacing the complex extradition procedure, the instrument demonstrates a high degree of mutual trust between member states, simplifies and speeds up the surrender procedure, including that of its own nationals, and contributes to avoiding impunity. over the past 10 years, the european commission has presented three reports on the implementation of the framework decision, and the eun has been globally assessed as a successful instrument. however, the same reports also pointed to certain shortcomings in the functioning of the system as regards procedural rights of suspects, conditions of detention and the application of the principle of proportionality. official statistics confirm that difficulties exist, as 54 689 eun were issued and 11 630 were executed in the period 2005-2009. i believe that the recommendations of this report should be taken into account and that the eu's review should ensure respect for human and fundamental rights. the use of eun should be effective and proportionate and should ensure that the rights of suspects are respected throughout the proceedings. in the context of the example of the republic of croatia, which faced the problem of incorrect transposition of the framework decision upon its accession to the eu, i believe that the european commission should act effectively with regard to the mechanism of control by member states as regards correct transposition into national legislation.
in writing. - the european arrest warrant is the most important eu legal instrument based on common recognition, where judicial decisions are made on the basis of mutual trust. the aim of this framework is to make the process of bringing suspects and accused persons to justice faster and easier. the member state has to execute the warrant without any assessment of the substance of the accusation. since it was introduced, it has provided a more efficient mechanism to ensure that those who seek to evade justice are not able to exploit open borders. still, the framework also has negative sides, such as poor detention conditions, alleged overuse of european arrest warrants by some member state and failure to apply proportionality. these problems should be solved in order not to undermine the credibility of the european arrest warrant and eu criminal justice initiatives in general. one of the goals of the european union is to promote freedom, security and justice. it is crucial to have effective instruments for mutual recognition in order to help us to build an efficient framework for the entire union.
written. - i support the report by mr jadota on the said agreement and agree with commissioner potočnik who said that it would strengthen consumer confidence in indonesian-origin wood products. i think it's extremely important to ensure the transparency of the product and its legal origin. the commission has also received comments from the indonesian authorities, which have not provided any evidence that the indonesian timber industry is in a situation of serious difficulties. i also welcome the support that the eu is providing to indonesia with a view to establishing and improving the control system. finally, i also support regulations that prevent the illegal timber market.
in writing. - i agree with the suggested motion for a resolution on the conclusion of the voluntary partnership agreement between the european union and the republic of indonesia. the republic of indonesia contains the third largest rainforest area in the world with some of the highest levels of biological diversity, yet management and conservation commitments are often insufficient. the partnership agreement is helping the european union promote the effective sustainable management of forests while minimising unfair competition and deforestation. the goal of the resolution is to establish a legal framework that will improve traceability and verification of timber products that are imported into the european union market. if the republic of indonesia is going to continue exporting timber, it is necessary for all timber products to be certified through the svlk.
written. - the current situation in venezuela is extremely worrying and often under-reported. for that reason, i support the adoption of this resolution by the european parliament. protests against the social situation got out of hand on february 12 when 10 people were killed and between 500 and 600 others were injured and arrested. venezuela, despite its vast oil reserves, is currently in a very difficult economic situation, and the freedom of expression and the right to participate in peaceful protests that are the foundation of democracy are not guaranteed. the grievances and the fact that the repression is particularly directed against students, journalists and opposition leaders who are subject to persecution. i believe that only respect for fundamental rights and freedoms and constructive dialogue with respect and tolerance can help the country to overcome future difficulties. therefore, i support the group's position and condemn the act of violence and human sacrifice after the peaceful protests of 12 september 2014 and express my condolences to all the families of the victims. the violence must stop and i call for dialogue between political forces to guarantee the protection and security of citizens and to restore peace.
written. - the latest wave of violence in venezuela shows a growing erosion of democratic institutions and civil liberties as well as a trend towards a strengthening of authoritarianism. the government's attitude towards student demonstrations and the misuse of the judiciary for political purposes, namely to imprison political opponents, was unacceptable. that's why i supported the resolution calling for peace and democratic dialogue in venezuela.
written. - in the context of the debate on the future of the eu's visa policy, with the need for further visa liberalisation towards third countries, i would like to place particular emphasis on visa non-reciprocity between member states and third countries. for example, citizens of the united states without a visa can visit all eu countries, while citizens of 5 member countries, including croatia, need a visa to visit america. i asked the commission about this back in november last year, pointing out that citizens of the five member states pay a visa application fee of $146 more than citizens of the other 23 eu member states. in addition, croatia has introduced biometric passports and is a member of nato and the european union. the commissioner for home affairs, cecilia malmström, replied that the commission uses every opportunity in its contacts with the us and canadian authorities to highlight its concerns about the remaining non-reciprocity cases. following the positive announcements by the commission, as well as the recent abolition of canadian visas for czech citizens, i hope for the same result and the early achievement of full visa reciprocity for all member states and their citizens.
written. - the future of the eu visa policy is a very important topic. the greek presidency of the council has a permanent priority on migration and border management. the idea is to increase solidarity between eu countries in safeguarding the security of the eu's land and sea borders. during the economic crisis, waves of immigration, caused by instability at the eu's borders, have added to the burden on member states, especially on those on the eu's external borders, such as croatia, which has also been hit hardest by the crisis in terms of recession and unemployment. croatia as a schengen candidate and as an eu border country has a strong interest in regulating visa policy. following the accession of croatia to the eu on 1 july 2013, the number of asylum seekers during the third quarter of 2013 decreased by 51% compared to the same period in 2012, which is a positive trend that should be maintained.
written. - i agree with the report. i believe that member states and the european commission should focus on improving local schengen cooperation in order to improve the use of short-stay visas. i consider it necessary to continue the process of harmonising and harmonising visa policy with equal and common rules on the issuance of visas. the joint visa centres must become concrete tools that will become the standard in all member states of the european union. i believe that frequent travellers to the european union should be allowed to use multiple-entry visas. i also believe that it is necessary to allow entry into the european union for third-country nationals whose fundamental human rights and security are at risk.
written. - despite the presence of women in the fishing industry, their role in most cases goes unnoticed. although the proportion of men in the fishing industry is numerically higher than that of women, we must not neglect those present. furthermore, we must not forget that the contribution of women in the fisheries sector goes beyond fishing and that their role is multifaceted. it covers the whole process and its stages, from activities carried out on land, those linked to fisheries, to activities dealing with production, processing and the sale itself. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's fisheries policy and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's fisheries policy. it is precisely the lack of information and awareness that accounts for the statistics indicating that only one member state has taken advantage of the opportunities offered by the european fisheries fund to finance projects whose beneficiaries are women. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to grant the aid to fishermen who have not yet been granted the right to fish.
written. - women play a significant role in fishing and in maintaining households and communities. many women working in family farms do not have adequate professional status, which means they do not have access to social rights such as health and pension insurance. that is why i supported this report, which proposes concrete measures to increase the role of women in the eu's common fisheries policy. i agree with the rapporteur that the new cfp should seek to achieve objectives linked to the principle of equality, to deepen the historical recognition of the socio-economic role of women in the world of fishing, to prevent discrimination on grounds of sex, to improve the necessary social measures, to finance actions to promote and include women on boards and in associations, and to promote education and official recognition of their work. the croatian coast is one of the most developed in the world and further involving women in work and developing fisheries is one of the ways in which croatia could reduce its unemployment rate.
written. - i support this report. the work of women in fisheries represents a significant economic value and contributes to the social, economic and environmental sustainability of many european communities and regions. the data show that several thousand women work in the fisheries sector in the european union. unfortunately, the work of women in fishing is not sufficiently visible and there are many problems in this area. women often lack adequate social protection and appropriate professional and occupational status. they often suffer economic discrimination because they are paid less than men for the same job. the european maritime and fisheries fund provides funds to promote the participation of women in the fisheries sector, supports women's associations and encourages the improvement of the role of women in fisheries. i agree that we need to improve the status of women and ensure that they have equal social and economic rights. in the republic of croatia, fishing is traditionally the most important activity of the croatian coast and island, characterised by a long history and a whole series of exceptional achievements.
written. - the report argues that women often play an important role in the fishing industry and therefore calls for attention to be paid to working conditions, training and skills and other aspects necessary to achieve equality. while i support measures aimed at improving gender equality in each sector, i consider that linking this topic to the common fisheries policy is inappropriate and unacceptable as articles 31, 49 and 99 of the european maritime and fisheries fund already refer to the promotion of equality and equal opportunities for women in the fishing industry. i consider the proposal excessive and therefore i voted against.
written. - i support this motion for a resolution of the european parliament. the private copying system is a good system that balances the right to private copying with fair compensation for the rights holders. this system should be harmonised as regards the level of fees and the products covered by the fees and modernised, in particular as regards transparency. i agree with the report that it is desirable to create a european framework that guarantees similar conditions for both rights holders and consumers. the european union has a long tradition of supporting cultural diversity in its member states.
written. - i support this report. i believe that culture and creativity are the foundation of european identity and will play a key role in the economic and social development of the european union in the future. the cultural sector provides 5 million jobs and 2.6% of eu gdp, is one of the main drivers of european growth, as well as a source of new jobs. we live in a digital age where private digital reproduction has acquired great economic importance, and so i think it's extremely important to address this issue. i believe that in the digital age there must be an author's right to the protection of his creative work and the right to fair compensation, but i also think that all european consumers should have the right to the private copying of legally acquired content. a more effective and modern framework needs to be found, one that benefits everyone and guarantees a level playing field for rights holders and consumers across the european union.
written. - i agree with the rapporteur's finding that the copyright act should balance the interests of creators and consumers, allowing consumers to have the right to private reproduction of legally acquired content. the report does not violate the principle of subsidiarity by calling on the member states of the union to simplify and harmonise the fees and to use at least one quarter of the fee revenue as aid for creativity and artistic performance. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
madam vice-president, commissioner reding, mr hoyer, president of the european investment bank, first of all i would like to congratulate my colleague mr marinescu and the committee on budgetary control on this excellent and comprehensive report. in the current difficult social circumstances in a number of member states where there is a high level of unemployment, where a large proportion of young people are having difficulty finding work, where smes have difficulty accessing long-term sources of finance, the european investment bank has proved to be part of the solution to the crisis and here its role and its activity so far has been very important in promoting and advancing the european union's objectives in terms of growth, in terms of employment, and in overcoming the difficulties we have experienced in the past few years. therefore, i consider the eur 10 billion capital increase approved by the governing council to be a very positive step, as it allows for an additional eur 60 billion of long-term project lending in the first two years, some of which has already been implemented, and as many as 400 major projects in 60 countries were financed in 2012. i commend and wish to maintain the high triple aaa rating which allows us to borrow 71 billion euros at favorable interest rates on the international capital market. i think we must continue to implement projects in terms of jobs for young people. we'll talk about external activities tomorrow, i just want to commend because for the first time we're speaking in croatian in this kind of eib context, that since 2001 as much as 3.25 billion euros of loans have been placed in croatia, and we see an increase in 2013 from 300 in 2012 to over 633. i would also like to say that it would be good if the european investment bank, together with the european bank for reconstruction and development and the council of europe development bank, coordinated their mandates and avoided any possible overlap. in this sense, i support all that mr hoyer has mentioned in his opening speech as an additional role for the european investment bank within the eu, but in promoting our external objectives.
madam president, research conducted by the american scientist joseph stiglitz shows that the average worker's income in 2012 is lower than in 1968. there were a lot of investments in that period, and many were financed by the european investment bank. unemployment is still skyrocketing, so if someone could explain to me where the business success is? clearly, these investments also enriched a small circle of the wealthy, not the citizens. it is not without reason that confidence in capitalism based on the financial market is intact, but no longer there. the bank, like all available capital, should be much more at the service of all, including small entrepreneurs, and accordingly the allocation of funds to national development banks should be conditional, and more attention should be paid to corruption in this process.
madam president, i would like to welcome commissioner reding, eib president hoyer and thank the rapporteur for this report, mr marinescu. the eib is an important source of financing for capital investment, the national part of the financing of projects financed by eu funds, smes and entrepreneurial infrastructure, and for innovative and scientific projects. the eib's contribution to the financing of the european investment bank (eib) is limited to eur 300 million. in the republic of croatia, an indicative loan was signed with the eib back in 2011 to favourably finance the national part of projects financed by the eip, but the funds do not descend to the local units of the project holders and they are still unfavourably indebted on the market. it is important to make active use of the sources of financing opened up through the eib as soon as possible, as the objective is to ensure a high-quality implementation of cohesion policy in all member states. the jaspers programme is particularly important in helping to prepare infrastructure projects of high quality.
on behalf of the ecr club. madam president, i have spent my entire career in male-dominated jobs, first in law enforcement and then in politics, so i know firsthand the challenges facing a woman who wants to pursue a professional career. i was also one of those who this resolution considers to be particularly vulnerable migrants, because as a minor girl i went to live, study and work in canada. i didn't get the special treatment that the reporter is suggesting, but i'm happy to say that i'm the only one who succeeded. i believe deeply in the equality of women and men, but i'm sure we won't get there by introducing a little more discrimination into the story. positive discrimination is discrimination and as such is undesirable in the fight for equality. i also want to say that the continued promotion of abortion as a woman's right is completely counterproductive and that the decisions of this house, which has rejected them several times, should be respected.
mr vice-president, madam commissioner, i consider the subject of this report to be very important. it's true that women in certain positions are still paid less than men in the same positions. women are less likely to reach management positions and the percentage of women in political positions is always lower. women are also a more vulnerable group at the last plenary session we discussed violence against women. the figures quoted by the rapporteur are worrying and we need to react to them, but the way the report proposes is biased and ideologically coloured and as such the report should not become the official position of this house, the only legitimate representative body of the citizens of the european union. what this report is saturated with and what is hidden between the lines is the relativisation of the structure of the basic social community, which is the family. should the european union give each member state a framework for what the family should look like? this report proposes a number of very problematic points. i have just given a few examples from this report with which i cannot agree. what i find worrying is the factual state of the demographic picture in the european union, but that problem will never be solved by such recommendations. women should be enabled to be mothers and facilitated by incentives. they should be enabled to be bearers of society and values and to value this role.
mr president, in the last plenary session i spoke about the problems of violence against women, and this time we have on the agenda a report on women's rights which puts economic equality at the forefront. studies show that despite having more women than men in higher education, men still occupy 91% of the top management positions. for the same jobs, women are paid less than their male colleagues, and it is estimated that they work as many as 59 days a year without pay. when it comes to children under the age of 12, 90 percent of their fathers and 65 percent of their mothers are employed. women are more likely to be unemployed and more at risk of poverty. the statistics that the european parliament also recalls every march, on the eve of international women's day, speak for themselves. however, we must not forget that this is also the reality that 52% of the eu population live with on a daily basis. we have to fight for women's rights every day because every day is women's day for us. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
answer the question posed by raising the blue card. thank you for asking. i am a medical doctor by profession and what i have seen throughout my college and through my practice is that by banning abortion, some repressive measures will not work to reduce the number of abortions or increase the number of complications and there will be a threat to the life of the woman. but in any case i am not for abortion in the sense that it is used as a contraceptive method, i believe that every society should help a woman to somehow regulate her family, but i do not have an abortion if it is at all possible.
mr vice-president, equality between women and men is indeed a fundamental right and yet we see that in the european union women are paid 16% less than men for the same job. that is why i have always been a strong advocate of equality between women and men, and here, together with the vice-president of the commission, we have written an article in a croatian newspaper advocating for a higher percentage of women in company boards. of course, i also supported the definition of prostitution as violence against women and equal pay between men and women. on the other hand, i regret that the rapporteur in this report, especially when some issues such as the right to life, took an ideological approach and that it would make it impossible for all or the vast majority of members to support such an important report. i think when it comes to gender equality, we should put ideology aside and really put women's rights first.
mr. chairman, we've heard a lot of data today, so here's another data that says that in all the parliaments in the world, there are 45,848 women, which is 21.4% of women. so, we already have inequality in parliaments, and it's almost in all segments of society. so it's unacceptable that there are 51 percent women on the entire globe, and that women are discriminated against and that they're undervalued and not treated equally. this resolution addresses three main themes, namely economic independence and equal pay, secondly equality in decision-making and thirdly violence against women. i would like to thank commissioner reding for dedicating part of her mandate to the desire to have 40% of women in management positions in small and medium-sized enterprises by 2020. in any event, we need to talk as much as possible and open up these issues and i would like to thank... (the president interrupted the members.)
mr president, i support the rejection of the commission's proposal because i believe that in this form it is quite damaging to the market for plant reproductive material and to european agriculture in general. first of all, it is quite certain that the adoption of this proposal would lead to the elimination of small producers from the european market, as such strict production and certification conditions could create an unbearable financial burden for them. i am of the view that excessive interference by the legislator in the law of the market does not contribute to economic recovery and growth, quite the opposite, but if there is anyone we need to protect it is the small producers. the commission proposal is particularly scandalous in that it allows the commission to adopt rules by means of wide-ranging delegated acts outside the legislative procedure and far from the public eye. such practices constitute an assault on democracy and i am therefore resolutely opposed to such a proposal.
mr president, i join all those who recognise the harmfulness of this directive and support the proposal to reject the commission's proposal. due to its great diversity, as well as its natural and cultural characteristics, plant reproductive material is regulated by as many as 12 directives, ensuring that existing legislation is adapted to all its specificities. the adoption of a directive would lead to a serious risk of not meeting the needs of consumers and the expectations of competent authorities. in fact, it threatens efforts to preserve genetic diversity. the directive would also contribute to an additional oligopoly of the largest companies, the three largest of which already control 53% of the world seed market, and the ten largest controlling as much as 73% of the market. the commission has not found any evidence that the measures in question are in line with the market economy operator principle. during the recent debate on the introduction of additional gmo varieties, a majority of eu citizens have made clear their support for the preservation of indigenous varieties and against modification. i believe that parliament, which decides on the implementation of this directive on an equal footing, needs more time to regulate the issue of reproductive material in a proper way and in the interest of the citizens of the union.
mr president, although after last week's commission report on the identification of macroeconomic imbalances and the assessment of progress in fiscal consolidation, it would be logical to speak about this report in the competence of commissioner rehn, i will today highlight two issues that are important for croatia, and they are, firstly, in the competence of commissioner hahn due to the elementary disasters in zagreb, karlovac, sisak-moslavska, ličko-seni and primorsko-goranja counties and to ask whether due to the natural disasters we have experienced in recent days, the threshold for determining the request for funds from the european solidarity fund should be considered appropriate or too high in cases where the state itself submits a request. the other is the andor commissioner, a lot of freight forwarders still talk to me. the croatian government is late in the operational programme for the use of european social fund funds. i wonder what the commission is doing to help croatia to help the people who lost their jobs on 1 july last year?
mr president, the excessive deficit procedure has recently been launched in the republic of croatia. in this context, i would like to highlight two important facts. first of all, the excessive deficit procedure is not a form of collective punishment of a particular member state, but the exact opposite. it is a corrective mechanism by which we seek to achieve economic equilibrium at the level of the european union as a whole, by stabilising and bringing order to the public finances of those member states which need it by working together. the european commission should not be a slave driver for the governments of individual member states in this process, but a reliable partner whose economic expertise and recommendations can be relied on by those governments. but if we want the citizens to really see this, then it is extremely important that the commission, in its guidelines for the consolidation of the public finances of a country, is not only guided by economic indicators, but also by those social, societal indicators, indicators in which the interest of the little man and the ordinary citizen is found, and of course the quality of his life.
mr. president, (initial speech unintelligible) public trust is at a very low level and therefore transparency is very important. however, as far as i know, there is a right to information law in the member states and the basis of that right to information law is that citizens have access to all documents. i hope that this is the case and that it should be the case at european level, and i believe that we will increasingly enable citizens to have access to all the laws and to participate in the decision-making process, and of course to know how public money is spent. i think it's necessary because that's how we're going to increase interest and intrigue our citizens to participate in the process and that's how we can also get a response to the election, because we said there's not enough interest to respond to the election. i think this is one way we can engage our citizens and i'm all for more transparency and less confidentiality.
mr president, transparency of the work and results of public administrations and public availability of information are prerequisites for their faster communication with citizens and thus overall effectiveness. the right of access to information is one of the fundamental rights that must be guaranteed to citizens. exceptions may be justified where the availability of documents compromises privacy. it is therefore necessary to clearly define the criteria for classifying documents at european level, rather than avoiding their publication by generalising existing vague rules. it is the basis for better oversight of the institutions, but also for building the society of informed citizens that the european union is striving for. the legitimacy of democratic decision-making derives from the availability of relevant information that citizens use to provide more informed answers. this report is therefore important for the democratic and political development of the union if we are to aim for a more transparent system for all actors, from citizens to officials in public bodies and institutions. and that deserves our support.
mr president, i support this report because i believe that the principle of transparency is one of those principles which must not be compromised. the whole work of political bodies and public institutions, as well as the way and extent of their funding, must be openly presented to the european public to which we are all accountable. but it is a bit paradoxical that parliament, on its own initiative, wants to adopt such a resolution just two weeks after this house voted to extend the application of rule 147 of the rules of procedure, thus postponing the full application of the croatian language in this institution. the facts show that at the moment croatian citizens are not guaranteed even half of their access to documents of the institutions of the union in their own language. i would like to call on all my colleagues once again to put an end to this exclusion of croatian citizens and to do everything possible to ensure that they have full access to union information and documents in their mother tongue as soon as possible.
mr president, the european parliament's role is to deal with and consider the demands of the eu citizens properly and to do so in a democratic and transparent way. it is important that citizens' initiatives and the right to representation are represented as much as possible in the work of the european parliament. in addition to giving citizens the opportunity to address their representatives directly on many issues, the peti committee is the main instrument for the implementation of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. the commission will continue to support the implementation of the european year of citizens' rights, which aims to promote citizens' rights and to promote citizens' participation in the european union. the commission has not received any comments from interested parties on the compatibility of the aid with the internal market. europe needs credible and visible policies that enable it to face today's and tomorrow's challenges with ease. successful implementation of mechanisms such as the right to be represented makes it possible to hear the conscience of the citizens who make up this union, to see the problems and, with appropriate solutions, to strengthen democracy and avoid similar situations in the future.
mr. chairman, i would like to thank my colleague for the report on the activities of the committee on petitions during 2013. i consider that it offers an objective overview of the work of the committee and contains a number of constructive recommendations, in particular as regards the administrative capacity of the committee. unlike the other committees of this parliament which draw up european union legislation, the committee on petitions listens to citizens and, on the basis of their petitions, monitors the application of eu legislation in the member states. the citizens of the union have recognised this instrument, they are increasingly using it, and it is important to emphasise that environmental, fundamental rights and internal market issues are the three main areas of interest of the petitions submitted. in this sense, the 10 000 representations in this session of the european parliament and the 2 885 during the european year of citizens are a clear signal of the interest of our citizens in european issues, but also of parliament's response and assistance to the questions that trouble them. in this sense, i believe that in the next mandate this committee of representatives will be important for the dialogue with european citizens on all european issues.
mr president, this european citizens' initiative, which has enabled citizens to participate since the lisbon treaty, has proved to be very good, as the figures show. if there were 10 000 representations in the last five years, and 2 800 in the last year of 2013, we see that this is an instrument that citizens are interested in and want to use, and it is also linked to the last item on the agenda. what we can conclude is that there is a need for dialogue, but especially a dialogue between the members of the european parliament committees and the national parliaments, because it is really worrying that citizens are turning to the european parliament rather than to their national parliament, which means that we need to build the trust and transparency that we were talking about earlier. what i particularly like about this report is that a special peti web portal will soon be launched, through which online petitions will also be able to be made, making it much easier for our citizens to raise their concerns.
mr. president, this is an interesting report. it is important to promote horticulture, but it is also important to ensure food security. here are some interesting numbers and the disparity between 18 percent of the total value of agricultural production, and only 3 percent of the arable land being used at the same time. i would like to say data from croatia, where the agricultural sector is under-utilizing the available resources and potential. there are many small and fragmented land areas where competitive production is almost impossible. many other factors are out there that limit the efficiency of production. in support of the already poor state of horticulture, i am deeply concerned that between one third and one half of products are thrown away just for their appearance and therefore agree that the commission should find a solution to shape the market rules so that these products can also be competitive. i also want to encourage young people to get involved in this sector of agriculture, or horticulture.
mr. president, torture is an act of anti-civilization and as such cannot be tolerated. the reporter is particularly well aware of the growing problem of mental torture by young people using social networks. it's a big challenge, so i hope we'll respond as soon as possible by launching strong campaigns that should raise awareness of this problem. the rapporteur also recognises the need to condemn torture in armed conflicts and calls for the resolution of unpunished cases from europe's totalitarian past. i welcome such an initiative and express the hope that the candidate countries will also be asked to do so in the process of accession to the union. i remind you that croatian citizens were systematically tortured and killed in camps on the territory of serbia during the patriotic war and that official belgrade still does not recognize the existence of these camps. let us be consistent and ask serbia to acknowledge the existence of the camps, to pay tribute to the victims and to punish the perpetrators of these grave crimes.
mr president, torture, or cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment, is unfortunately present in many parts of the world. some countries still use stoning, genital mutilation, and mental and physical torture on the basis of religion, political affiliation, or position. i therefore welcome this report, which strongly condemns all forms of torture and inhuman treatment and calls for a more active approach by the european union to prevent torture worldwide. let us not forget that children are often subjected to torture. more than 125 million women and girls in 29 countries around the world have been subjected to female genital mutilation. i therefore call on the european external action service to make respect for human rights and the eradication of torture in the world a priority in all negotiations with third countries.
mr president, although an international framework has been created for the absolute prohibition of torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment, torture continues to persist throughout the world. and taking into account the universal declaration of human rights and other human rights agreements and instruments adopted at the level of the united nations, as there are important policy challenges in dealing with new forms of torture targeting vulnerable groups, in particular children, the union has a key role to play in combating torture on a global scale, in close cooperation with the united nations. is there any torture worse than genital mutilation? so i raise my voice against such torture, and especially against the torture of children who are exposed today to various forms of violence and commercialization. in times when children are exposed to torture, additional political, diplomatic and financial measures must be taken, as well as contributing to improving the situation in third countries where torture of children, but also of women, is particularly pronounced.
member of the commission. - mr president, first of all my thanks to ms de keyser – and i must make an admission. this is one of my favourite subjects, because for five years i was a member of the committee for the prevention of torture of the council of europe, which does fieldwork. it does not just discuss in plenary or in meetings, but its members actually visit prisons and prison cells. i was once accidentally locked inside a cell with a prisoner, and the prisoner had to ring for the guards to release me, so they take the job very seriously and do some excellent work. because, as some members of parliament have said, we also have isolated cases of torture, of people in detention in our own countries in the european union. we welcome this report on the eradication of torture, and this is one of the most important rights. if we look at most constitutions, it is put third or fourth in terms of fundamental rights, and it was one of the few rights where there are no exceptions. even the right to life has exceptions, but the right to protection from torture usually does not have any exceptions. while the task of eradicating torture is, unfortunately, far from being achieved, we acknowledge the need to improve the overall coherence of eu policy in combating torture. as this house is well aware, in our fight against torture, we follow a so-called ‘holistic’ approach that encompasses all the essential elements: the prevention of torture, but also the protection and rehabilitation focusing on the victims of torture and ill-treatment. guided by the commitments of the eu action plan on democracy and human rights and also the eu guidelines on torture, we promote the eradication of torture through all bilateral contacts with third countries. in particular, human rights dialogues with 42 states allow us to address individual cases of concern and to encourage the ratification of key international instruments, notably the optional protocol to the un convention against torture: the so-called cat. this being said, our anti-torture policy would be far less effective without the persistent efforts to address torture and ill-treatment within the un framework. in this context, during the ongoing session of the un human rights council, the eu is following the situation in syria, the democratic people’s republic of korea and ukraine with particular attention. in all these cases, it is crucial to ensure accountability for perpetrators of grave human rights violations, including torture, and to provide rehabilitation and relief to victims. we share the view that torture affecting those who are most vulnerable, notably children and women, amounts to one of the most abhorrent violations of human rights. in order to address the root causes of this phenomenon, the eu is engaged in efforts to reduce all forms of violence against children through more effective child protection systems and to raise greater awareness about children’s rights, including their right to freedom from violence. in parallel, in order to prevent the torture of children, the eu asks the partner countries which have lowered the criminal liability age to reconsider their decision. similar efforts are being made to eradicate violence against women, and our recent endeavours focus in particular on the elimination of female genital mutilation. taking good note of the need to improve the targeted use of political tools at our disposal, work is currently ongoing to guide eu diplomats in third countries in their work on eradicating torture. the specific guidance on this important issue will include advice on visits to detention centres, trial monitoring and follow-up to individual cases raised by the european union. at the same time, in line with the request of parliament and civil society, in february this year we revived the council human rights working group task force on torture. the task force will remain an informal network of interested member states providing impetus to the implementation of the eu guidelines on torture. last but not least, our anti-torture policy is effective only if it permeates all the external policies of the union, including development and trade. in this regard, the commission has taken the initiative for a review of council regulation 1236/2005, which restricts trade in certain goods which could be used for capital punishment or torture. in tabling this proposal, the commission has taken into consideration the european parliament’s views expressed in its resolution of 17[nbsp ]june[nbsp ]2010. regulating eu trade in order to help prevent capital punishment and torture from occurring in third countries is essential and reflects the fundamental values on which the eu is based. however, as we know, such regulation is not sufficient to ensure that third countries abolish capital punishment and to prevent torture from occurring in such countries. other actions, notably dialogue with third countries, and further action at the un general assembly level are also needed to achieve these goals. as you can see, the road to a world free from torture and ill-treatment is a long and difficult one, but i am convinced that, united in our endeavours, we shall continue to make progress.
mr president, i have a positive opinion of this report and i thank you for it, given that the kingdom of saudi arabia and the european union are facing common challenges, but they are global in origin, such as migration, energy security and international terrorism. the fight against terrorism and violent extremism is also underlined by the counter-terrorism launch contributory agreement signed by the united nations and the kingdom of saudi arabia. saudi arabia is working on regional stability, counter-terrorism, global fuel stability, financial markets, but there's a particular concern about human rights. removing barriers to gender equality is at the top of the list of countries with laws that limit women's economic potential and therefore everything must be done to give women basic human rights, because these are indeed forms of discrimination and segregation in both private and public life, and the country must allow women's most basic life decisions to be approved without the approval of a male guardian.
mr. president, the european union is saudi arabia's largest trading partner. the cooperation between the european union and saudi arabia is of course important not only in terms of trade, energy; it has a geostrategic dimension, it is important for regional stability, for the cooperation of the european union with other islamic countries. saudi arabia also has a very important presence in south-eastern europe, especially in bosnia and herzegovina. but with all these considerations, geostrategic, energy, trade, it's really important to also raise the issue of respect for human rights. we were just discussing the eradication of torture in the world, and unfortunately saudi arabia still uses torture and certain discriminatory practices. so, when we look at the statistics, they change from year to year, but this practice is still here, and that's why i'm glad that the european union is opening up this human rights dialogue with saudi arabia and that it's also at the heart of our relationship.
member of the commission. - mr president, i would like to thank the european parliament for its draft report on saudi arabia, and also for the role played by the rapporteur, ms gomes, and the chair of the subcommittee on human rights in the european parliament, ms lochbihler, for their work. this report – and also the fact that several members of this parliament, including ms de martini, have recently visited saudi arabia – is a testimony to the importance the eu gives to its relationship with saudi arabia at this juncture. in the face of regional challenges, and in the aftermath of the breakthrough on the interim agreement on iran, the high representative/vice-president, baroness ashton, visited saudi arabia and other gulf countries in january[nbsp ]2014. she came back from her meetings in the region with a clear sense that our gulf partners have a key role to play in fostering stability – both political and economic – in the region, and that the eu should engage more with them. this is one of the key messages of the draft report. we agree that, beyond saudi arabia’s human rights record, it is essential to look at the contribution that saudi arabia can bring to our joint efforts to bring peace, stability and security in the region. turning now to the details of the draft report, we can only concur that the human rights situation in saudi arabia remains preoccupying, as exemplified by the long list of recommendations presented by un members in the context of the un universal periodic review (upr). the eu member states have actively and constructively contributed to this exercise under the coordinating role of the european union. the draft report rightly points to numerous areas where progress is urgently needed, and these largely coincide with the areas that we too have identified. the union will continue to address these issues in encounters with the authorities and with civil society representatives. at the same time, we ought to maintain a balance in order to bring effective support to those courageous individuals defending human rights and to women taking action to gain recognition of basic rights and needs, such as the right – which has been mentioned by some members – to be issued with driving licences. our reading of the human rights situation in saudi arabia is that some positive, if only gradual, steps have been taken as of late, but we agree that much more work remains to be done. not only should further steps be taken in a number of fields, but we also look forward to the implementation of the proposed steps that have been announced by the king, such as a reform of the judicial system and the decision to allow women to vote and stand for office in the elections of 2015. we too were disturbed by the conditions under which a large number of irregular foreign workers have been expelled since november[nbsp ]2013. while the eeas welcomes efforts to introduce legislation protecting foreign workers, it deplores the fact that abuses remain frequent in the context of the sponsorship system. the sponsorship system should be reviewed. we shall continue to advocate, in our contact with our saudi partners, for the need to make decisive progress in the areas of freedom of expression and freedom of speech, although we welcome the fact that the space given to media freedom has recently been widened. the eeas concurs that freedom of association requires urgent reforms to allow ngos to register and operate. undoubtedly, the eu pays great attention to women’s rights. we have seen positive moves, with the appointment of 30 women to the shura council, greater access given to education for women, and the recent adoption of a law against domestic violence. at the same time, the de facto driving ban for women and the male guardianship system keep curtailing women’s rights. finally, our principled position on the death penalty remains that a moratorium should be applied as a first step toward the abolition of the death penalty. in the case of saudi arabia, un minimum standards should be applied to limit the scope of application of the death penalty. public executions are unacceptable practices that should come to an end. in a spirit of constructive dialogue, we have invited saudi arabia to seize the opportunity of the un universal periodic review to address the eu’s concerns and to engage in an open and mutual exchange with us on human rights. such steps would be a welcome follow-up to the positive signal sent last january when, for the first time, eu diplomats were able to attend the trial of a saudi citizen – as consistently advocated by the eu delegation in riyadh – by the saudi authorities. saudi arabia has the capacity to decisively contribute to political stability and economic recovery beyond its borders. therefore, we look forward to saudi arabia making the best use of its role and influence to help reach a political solution in syria and stability in lebanon and to support ongoing negotiations on the middle east peace process. we also renew our call to support efforts aimed at a long-term comprehensive solution with iran, in order to obtain a durable settlement of the concerns about iran’s nuclear activities. improving relations between gulf countries and iran is crucial for regional stability, and we encourage the resumption of interactions to build mutual trust. the high representative is determined to continue her sustained exchanges with our saudi partners on all these issues. to conclude, we believe it is time for the eu to strengthen its ties with saudi arabia, as with our other gulf partners, on all fronts – and notably on human rights – through dialogue. we must be able to voice our differences openly, in a spirit of mutual respect, and with the objective of enhancing our concentration on all matters of common interest. the eu services will continue to work hard to keep our communication channels active and, wherever there is a will and convergent objectives, to broaden them.
mr president, i hope this will be just one of the reports, since we will be talking about ukraine this week and really, as the rapporteur said, the developments in ukraine have been a little bit of a disappointment to us and have caused a different flow of this report. successive enlargements of the european union have led to a situation where the security, stability and prosperity of the eastern partnership countries are emerging as an increasingly important factor in the union. the partnership offered by the union is based on their own political will, but has nevertheless proved to be an insufficient driver of change and reform, despite the clear european aspirations of the peoples of the eastern partnership countries. i believe that the multilateral dimension of the eastern partnership should be strengthened, for the sake of the partnership itself, to foster a climate of cooperation, friendship and good neighbourly relations, and therefore the objectives of political association, and in particular economic integration, should be supported, and people-to-people contacts should be established, taking account of democratic reforms, but with the help of the rich experience of european countries and of the process of establishing democratic systems that we have also undergone.
mr president, i support all strategies and policies that aim to strengthen democratic capacities and stabilise the countries in our neighbourhood. the eastern partnership countries are important to the european union and their progress is invaluable to us. approaching the union is a difficult and arduous process, especially for countries with a communist, totalitarian past. as a representative from croatia, i know very well the challenges facing a society, steeped in the communist legacy, in the process of adopting those values which we now call western and on which this community is based. the union will not help the eastern partnership countries by putting them at the service of its foreign policy and of the confrontation with russia in the region. it will help them above all if it continues to defend their sovereignty and territorial integrity in principle. in parallel, they need to be encouraged to strengthen their internal capacity and to meet strict and objective conditions, so that one day these countries will be fully ready to join the union.
mr president, i welcome the rapporteur and the commissioner who, at this late hour, is representing the views of the european commission. i would agree with my colleague mr kowal that the changed circumstances have indeed changed the purpose of this report. i'll be very brief. of course, the eastern partnership policy was primarily designed to make the eastern partnership countries more politically and economically linked to the european union. i think that all these events in ukraine show us first of all that it is necessary to continue to emphasise, of course, these mechanisms, but also the european union's commitments in political and economic support to the eastern partnership countries. so i would agree with the rapporteur that now is not so much the time for words as for concrete action.
mr. president, years of negotiations have produced this result (speech unintelligible). insurance solvency is clearly a key issue. it's called the presumption of trust, and in this industry, you can't function otherwise. trading capital is risky by definition. the high risk of disposing of equity is an owner's problem, but in the pension sector, it's definitely unacceptable. in these times of crisis, little is certain. pensioners are the most at risk. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of insurance undertakings in the union that are subject to the risk of insolvency. otherwise, we'll be back in the same situation as the banks, where we have to socialize the losses and any profits will go into private pockets.
mr. chairman, i thank the rapporteur for preparing this report. since the 2008 financial crisis, it has become clear to all member states that it is important to strengthen coordination, cooperation and a common approach in the governance of financial institutions. the supervisory and control mechanisms of the system aim to contribute to the security and confidence of citizens in financial institutions and to reduce the risk of destabilisation of the financial sector, and financial stability is a basic prerequisite for growth and development, job creation and business creation. in addition to the institutional establishment of the european supervisory system, it is necessary to lay down rules and procedures to ensure a harmonised, coordinated approach to the internal market and a more efficient implementation of supervision at the level of each member state based on the same approach. it is important that technical standards do not fall within the areas of decision-making on strategic and policy issues. that's why it's not so easy to set these standards.
on behalf of the ecr club. mr president, money laundering and terrorist financing are serious criminal offences, interconnected and as such require our full attention. the introduction of such a system, which makes information on the payer and the payee of transfers of funds more easily accessible, will greatly facilitate the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing. however, the introduction of such regulations should always put the rights of service users first, despite the undeniable need for a higher level of security in payment transactions. every responsible legislator must strike a balance between the security of the system and the subjective sense of privacy of the citizens who benefit from increased surveillance and on whose hard-earned money the entire system depends. i also agree with the rapporteurs that the introduction of a higher level of payment security must presuppose the protection of the data collected and that access to such data should be allowed only in exceptional situations for which i would like them to be strictly defined by law.
on behalf of the ppe club. mr president, i welcome commissioner borg and, as shadow rapporteur on behalf of the european people's party, i once again thank my colleague ival kalfin and the other shadow rapporteurs for their efforts in drafting this important decision which, with guarantees from the european union budget, enables the european investment bank to place loans in third countries. the european investment bank is a powerful complementary instrument for the european union's external action and the promotion of both our values and interests in the world. therefore, it seems to me that the objectives we have defined here, namely, first and foremost, supporting regions and other countries in terms of local private sector development to support smes, social and economic infrastructure, climate change mitigation and upgrading all the comparative advantages that the eib has already proven to have, are very constructive in our external action. in this respect, i believe that the regional economic integration of neighbouring countries, particularly those in the pre-accession process, will also be supported by the european investment bank loans. the fact that we were able to negotiate a guarantee of 30 billion euros instead of 28 using the feed-in from svemip showed creativity in the negotiation process. the revision of 30 june 2016 gives us flexibility to see how we prioritise during the second half of this multiannual financial framework and i am particularly pleased that we have put more resources into the country in the pre-accession process, the eastern partnership countries and the mediterranean countries. i would like to look particularly at ukraine in that context, given the circumstances that are currently there today and the positive announcement last week of an eib package of an additional 3 billion over the first 3 years. the commission has also received comments from the ukrainian authorities.
mr. president, the guarantee of losses is by definition the socialization of losses. if you socialize potential loss, it makes sense that you socialize gain. on the other hand, the european investment bank in countries outside the union should serve, and probably does, to stimulate growth in those countries. the european union also benefits in this way. at least partially alleviating the problems of economic immigration, at the same time making these countries better and more reliable partners. we've already talked about surveillance today. but i would stress once again the importance of controlling the absorption of credit and corruption in the countries the bank enters. the comments that investment in other countries is damaging employment in europe are simply not serious and do not stand. we're not going to get richer if those around us are poorer. there are others we should look at with suspicion. the crisis is not the fault of the poor.
mr president, the european investment bank is an important instrument to support and further strengthen the external activities of the european union, and in particular those activities which are in line with our general development principles. in this context, alongside economic and social development, i am thinking in particular of improving environmental protection and eradicating poverty and improving human rights. and it is precisely because of the importance of the european investment bank in achieving the stated objectives of our foreign policy that i must express my regret that the resources allocated in the new multiannual financial framework are not even greater. however, while expressing regret at this fact, i would like to stress two things in particular which are crucial if the funds allocated to the european investment bank are to be spent in the best possible way. in particular, in our external activities, better and more effective cooperation between the european commission, the european external action service and the european investment bank is needed. this is undoubtedly one of the prerequisites for avoiding unnecessary dispersal of resources and for their optimal use. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new financial framework and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new financial framework. in this respect, i fully support the rapporteur's proposal to oblige the european investment bank to publish the registers of all end-users. this will increase the transparency we seek and ensure that the funds of european taxpayers in countries outside our community are used in a responsible and purposeful way.
mr president, i thank the rapporteur and it is a special honour for me and all our representatives from the republic of croatia that our colleague, mr plenkovic, was the shadow rapporteur for this report which was prepared with great care. the eib's activities in countries outside the european union are of particular importance, as reforms and convergence in these countries are encouraged by the provision of favourable financing instruments. this is why it is important to support and encourage the eib to have as much presence and action as possible in countries outside the european union. it is necessary to continue, in the 2014-2020 perspective, the concrete financial support provided through the guarantee to the eib in the event of losses in the financing of investment and development projects outside the union. i support the changes proposed in the report, namely the targeting of guarantees to less creditworthy beneficiaries, stronger financing of climate change projects and a more concrete linking of eib financing with european union policies.
written. - inland ports are key elements of the entire inland waterway transport system. the success of the entire transport process from the place of production to the place of final consumption depends on this system. at the same time, ports are also links between the different modes of transport by which goods or passengers are brought in and taken out to their final destinations. ports are also the driving force behind the development of the country's various economic activities. as a representative from croatia, i believe that inland waterways throughout croatia are given a new framework for development by the adoption of a european action plan at the level of the european union. all problems related to the inland waterway transport sector need to be addressed in a coordinated manner at community level and it is therefore important that croatia actively participates in the statistics on inland waterway freight transport. furthermore, the commission needs statistics on the transport of goods by inland waterways in order to monitor and develop the common transport policy, as well as the transport elements of the policy on regions and on trans-european networks. community statistics on all modes of transport should be compiled in accordance with common standards. this would achieve the greatest possible comparability between modes of transport. in conclusion, i support this report.
in writing. - regulation (ec) no 1365/2006 lays down common rules for the production of community statistics on inland waterway transport. in adopting the naiades ii programme, the commission underlined the need for long-term structural changes in the inland waterway transport sector in order to achieve the eu 2020 objectives. a successful policy in this field must, however, be based on objective, comparable and reliable statistics, which show the results of the policy itself and its evolution towards a well-managed, safe, clean and competitive mode of transport.
written. - i supported the report on statistics on the transport of goods by inland waterways. i believe that long-term structural changes in inland waterway transport are needed to enable this sector to contribute to the europe 2020 strategy. infrastructure, logistics, navigation, environmental impact and the need to stimulate new jobs and innovation in the inland waterway transport sector need to be improved. in order to achieve these objectives of improving navigation and transport and to realise the role of inland waterways, objective, comparable and reliable statistics are needed to guide the further improvement of the management, safety, competitiveness and, in general, of this type of transport, on the basis of these data.
written. - the adoption of common rules and procedures for the collection of statistics makes it easier to analyse statistical data from different countries without having to adapt their format beforehand, and thus makes it more efficient to analyse them. this is important to have a clear picture of the state of the waterways, especially in terms of infrastructure and technical (sentence in progress). i am therefore pleased that we have decided to standardise the collection of statistics even further and that we have decided to extend the scope of statistics to include passenger ships. i share the rapporteur's view that the collection of certain data should be mandatory in order to obtain a more complete view of the state of waterways and to improve their statistical review, while additional non-critical information may continue to be collected on a voluntary basis. i consider this important because of the improvement of inland waterways which play an important role in the transport of goods and passengers by river throughout the european union.
written. - i supported the report by ms lichtenberger because i believe that the collection of statistical data on inland waterway freight transport is essential to implement the necessary long-term structural changes to improve this transport sector in order to meet the requirements of the europe 2020 strategy. i consider it important to emphasise that the commission is empowered to adopt delegated acts, where necessary, to adapt the scope of data collection and the content of the annexes, taking into account economic and technical trends. the naiades programme, whose report was voted on earlier this year, is a type of programme whereby the commission has stressed that the conditions for the functioning of this sector need to be improved together with infrastructure, integration into the logistics chain and employment opportunities, and trade and innovation to promote the growth and development of this sector. the geographical position of croatia contributes positively to a well-developed and connected network of inland waterways, but i consider that, given the fact that croatia is both a mediterranean and a danube country, it is not sufficiently well exploited. although inland waterway traffic is growing at an average annual rate of 10%, the share of this type of traffic in the total freight transported in croatia is still only 0,3%.
written. - inland waterway transport plays an important role, both for the transport of goods and for the transport of passengers, especially in urban conurbations through which rivers flow. i believe that the role of inland waterways would be enhanced by an increased use of waterways for the transport of goods and people, especially when innovative ships powered by alternative energy sources are used, which is the cleanest mode of transport. the enhanced role of inland navigation should be based on objective, comparable and reliable statistics. i have therefore supported this directive which will confer on the commission certain delegated and implementing powers to adopt certain measures in this area.
written. - i support this report. inland waterways play an important role, not only for the transport of goods, but also for the transport of passengers, especially for the urban areas through which they pass. the fact is that vessels used on inland waterways are often old and navigation itself is sometimes restricted or hampered by lack of appropriate infrastructure or financial problems. in order to better assess the state of the fleet and equipment of vessels and to obtain an accurate picture of navigability in the union, it is necessary to keep statistics such as the necessary and accurate data relating to navigable infrastructure on a systematic basis. as statistics are available for air, rail and road freight and passenger transport, information for inland waterway transport would also be of great importance. in order to improve the role of inland navigation in transport, the relevant policy should be based on objective, comparable and reliable statistical data. the conditions for the operation of this sector need to be improved, including infrastructure, environmental protection, markets and innovation, business skills and integration in the logistics chain. to achieve this, the commission should persist in setting out concrete actions for the implementation of the programme by 2020.
written. - in order to ensure uniform conditions for the implementation of regulation (ec) no 1365/2006, i supported this report. accordingly, implementing powers should be conferred on the commission to adopt procedures for the transmission of data in accordance with regulation (eu) no 182/2011, including standards for data exchange, for the publication of the results of the commission (eurostat) and for the definition and publication of methodological requirements and criteria established to ensure the quality of the data. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the conditions for the use of the data referred to in paragraph 1 of this article.
written. - the quality of the statistics provided by the member states is of great importance for the consistent application of the macroeconomic imbalance procedure. it is for this reason that joint action by member states is recommended for the purpose of collecting statistical data which are essential for evaluating the current economic and financial situation of national economies. the alert mechanism established by the macroeconomic imbalance procedure regulation helps to facilitate the early detection and monitoring of imbalances by enabling the commission to carry out a qualitative assessment of the economic situation and to identify member states that it considers to be at potential risk of imbalances and in need of assistance. it is necessary to involve national parliaments in a timely manner in the issue of adopting preventive measures in the event of signs of imbalances and to encourage the heads of national statistical institutes to participate more actively in the discussions with a view to better cooperation with the european supervisory authorities, resulting in a faster flow of information. the commission should also be able to provide the statistical authorities of the member states with the necessary information to enable them to carry out their tasks.
written. - macroeconomic balance is essential for the functioning of a member state. regulation (eu) no 1176/2011 of the european parliament and of the council on a macroeconomic imbalance procedure establishes an alert mechanism. the mechanism just mentioned would make it easier to detect and monitor imbalances early. in this regard, the commission is to prepare an annual report on the functioning of the alert mechanism. i believe it is essential that the commission continues to take account of the need for reliable statistics. they enable union policies to respond better to economic, social and territorial circumstances at regional level. reliable, accurate and useful statistical data are essential for the effective monitoring of macroeconomic imbalances. in order to guarantee the quality and independence of statistical data, member states should ensure the professional independence of the national statistical authorities. in conclusion, i support this report and consider it necessary to ensure the quality of data relevant to the macroeconomic imbalance procedure. the economic governance of the statistical data surveillance system can be strengthened through enhanced cooperation between national parliaments and the european parliament. this is necessary for the macroeconomic imbalance procedure.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report which aims to make the framework for the compilation of data relevant to the psm, their quality control and their publication as similar as possible to the procedures laid down in regulation (eu) no 1176/2011 of the european parliament and of the council. i also welcome the proposal to appoint 'dialogue visits' to further improve the efficiency of the proposed procedures, as i believe that this is a step towards greater operational efficiency and a procedure which can make effective communication a key point.
written. - i supported this report because i believe that reliable, accurate and high-quality statistical data are essential for effective surveillance of states in the process of macroeconomic imbalances. in order to ensure the quality and independence of statistical data, the independence of eurostat should be strengthened in line with the proposals of the european parliament and the council, and member states should ensure the independence of national statistical authorities. the results of the analysis of the alert mechanism report should not be interpreted in a routine manner but should be subject to a professional economic interpretation. the commission will examine a wide range of economic variables and additional information when carrying out detailed reviews, taking due account of the circumstances specific to each country. the additional measures should also ensure that the preparation, submission and quality control of data for the purpose of qualitative analysis in the event of selected countries' macroeconomic imbalances is carried out more efficiently. it is also important to note that croatia, as a new eu member, has officially entered the process of macroeconomic imbalances. the commission has just carried out an in-depth analysis of the market economy indicators in croatia in order to better understand the potential risks related to, for example, exports, trade and competitiveness. the report is also of particular importance as it aims to improve statistical analysis in one of the most important areas of the so-called '6 package', the stability and growth pact.
written. - unfortunately, the economic crisis was necessary to make us see the shortcomings of certain european union policies. the web of circumstances that cause a crisis can not only be influenced but also predicted by economic developments, and i therefore endorse the report on the concession and the quality of statistical data for the macroeconomic imbalance procedure. i hope that the cooperation between the commission and the statistical agencies of the member states will be successful, because improving the handling of macroeconomic imbalances is only possible with reliable and accurate statistical data. i also hope that a high-quality legal solution will be found so that countries that provide inaccurate and unreliable data can be sanctioned, and i support the rapporteur in this effort. finally, i would like to commend the commission's reaction to this legislative proposal. the expected financial implications are around eur 10 million, but the value of reliable statistical data in the macroeconomic imbalance procedure is many times higher.
written. - i voted for this report aimed at improving the quality of statistics used to estimate potential macroeconomic imbalances. in the event of macroeconomic imbalances, an alert mechanism shall be established to facilitate the early detection and monitoring of imbalances. as an important part of the six-pack of economic measures, i believe it will help us to act pre-emptively on potential economic difficulties within the eu and within the member states themselves.
written. - i support this proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the concession and quality of statistical data for the macroeconomic imbalance procedure. the proposed regulation aims to ensure the quality and timeliness of the production, provision and quality monitoring of statistical data collected and transmitted for the purposes of the processes for the detection of macroeconomic imbalances and the prevention and correction of excessive imbalances within the union. this regulation will also regulate the monitoring of data quality, the production and delivery of data and metadata, the reporting of data to different stakeholders both in the ep and in the council, and will introduce new tasks for eurostat. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a regulation on the european statistical system. the geographical scope is not limited to the euro area but covers all 28 member states, so that all are subject to the same rules. the accuracy of statistical data is of the utmost importance as it gives us a picture of the state of the union and its member states and on the basis of this information we take important political and administrative decisions. i certainly support this proposal which will raise the quality of data even in the event of macroeconomic imbalances.
written. - i supported the provisions of this regulation to be seen within the framework of strengthening european economic governance which calls for greater democratic accountability at national and european level. the quality assurance procedures established under this regulation shall take into account and build upon best practices from existing quality assurance procedures. it is essential that the statistics needed to implement the union's activities are based only on reliable data. it is appropriate to complement the procedures laid down in regulation (eu) no 1176/2011 and regulation (eu) no 1174/2011 with an appropriate formal framework for the compilation, quality control and publication of data relevant to the macroeconomic imbalance procedure, in accordance with the common quality criteria established by regulation (ec) no 223/2009.
written. - the economic crisis has shown us how vulnerable we can be if, as a deeply interconnected community of states, we do not progress in a balanced way that ensures equally stable growth and long-term sustainable development for all parts of the european union. this vulnerability has proven particularly damaging in euro area countries that have suffered enormous damage from their uneven development, both at the individual level and in the context of the european union as a whole, which has been forced to intervene in the rescue of financial institutions with huge resources. the cyprus case has painfully demonstrated the sacrifice that citizens have had to make in this process, by sacrificing their own resources. the report by mr eppink is of great importance in our joint effort to harmonise the way in which the economic mechanisms of the european union are managed and to be as successful as possible in preventing economic downturns and in dealing with them as efficiently as possible. logically, high-quality statistical data is a prerequisite for us to be able to do this. i consider this particularly important in the case of macroeconomic imbalances, given the difficulties we have been experiencing in the recent period. i believe that this report will help in the future both the member states individually and the institutions of the european union at a joint level to develop instruments for collecting and sharing data which will be useful to us for the prevention of economic problems.
the european community and the government of the united states of america are engaged in research and technological activities in a number of areas of mutual interest. the parties shall cooperate in the development of the relevant international standards and standards for the protection of human health and the environment, including the international standard for the protection of human health and the international standard for the protection of new varieties of plants. the formal basis for cooperation in the field of scientific and technological research has been established. they will in future extend and strengthen cooperation activities in areas of common interest and encourage the application of the results of such cooperation to their economic and social benefit. this substantial agreement covers a wide range of areas of cooperation: environment (including climate research), biomedicine and health (including research on aids, communicable diseases and drug abuse), agriculture, fisheries science, technological research, non-nuclear energy, natural resources, materials science and metrology, information and communication technologies, telematics, biotechnology, marine science and technology, social science research, transport, science and technology policy, governance, training and mobility of scientists. finally, i support the extension of the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation between the european community and the government of the united states of america, as cooperation has shown good results in recent years.
written. - i welcome the decision to renew the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation between the european community and the government of the united states of america. in view of the positive experience so far, the continuation of scientific and technological cooperation with one of the world's leading economic powers can only contribute to a faster exit from the economic crisis still ongoing in europe. the extension of this type of cooperation is beneficial for all countries in the world because the european union and the united states play a significant role in the technological progress of the world. this form of bilateral cooperation also encourages and promotes the knowledge society. the promotion of the development of scientific and technological cooperation should be on a parity basis with respect to the laws, regulations and procedures in force in the european union and the united states of america respectively. i also believe that by extending our cooperation, we will achieve an even higher level of exchange of ideas that will contribute to progress that will benefit both sides.
in writing. - i support the council's decision to extend the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation between the european community and the government of the united states of america. the objective of this programme is to enhance the european and american dimensions of transatlantic cooperation in education and training by improving the quality of human resource development. in the light of the good results achieved so far, i believe it is important to continue in this direction in order to promote mutual understanding between the citizens of the eu and the us.
written. - i supported the report on the extension of the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation with the united states of america. the first agreement on scientific and technological cooperation between the european union and the united states of america was signed on 5 december 1997 and entered into force on 14 october 1998. the agreement was renewed for a further 5 years in 2009 and expired on 14 october 2013. the renewal of the agreement for a further 5 years is in the interest of both parties to continue cooperation in the field of science and technology and to improve relations between the european union and the united states of america.
written. - i support the extension of this agreement in the spirit of the long tradition of cooperation between europe and the united states in scientific and technological matters. i consider this cooperation to be essential for both the european union and the united states, especially in the light of the european development strategy and the fact that cooperation so far has proved extremely successful in the fields of laser, nuclear and space technology. i hope that the successful cooperation will continue and will enable even greater progress in the fields of science and technology, both through the exchange of knowledge, methodologies and experience, and through the joint financing of scientific and technological projects of particular developmental interest, where i would particularly highlight cooperation on energy, which is extremely important in order to find more efficient and safer new sources of energy, which is of common interest not only to the united states of america and the european union but also to society as a whole.
written. - i supported the recommendation of my colleague amalia sartori to extend the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation between the european community and the government of the united states of america on the grounds that the agreement has so far proved successful in terms of benefits and clear advantages for both parties. science and technology have always been fields that transcend the boundaries of the state, the federation and the union and must be in the service and for the benefit of all mankind. this is why the cooperation resulting from this agreement is necessary for the next five years. this is also illustrated by the example of hungary, which allocated 0.9% of the budget for science and technology in 2008 and fell to only 0.75% in 2011. the commission has also decided to extend the scope of the new regulation to include the acquisition of the rights of the defence and the protection of the environment. this includes rewarding successful applicants and conditioning scientific advancement with a successful project 'track record', in line with the scientific field and specificities of research in individual scientific institutions.
written. - i supported the european parliament's recommendation to extend the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation between the european union and the united states of america. i am convinced that this will further strengthen the friendly ties with the united states, which is our most important strategic partner. this agreement is based on the principles of mutual benefit, which provides both the eu and the us with an opportunity to enhance and strengthen cooperation in areas of science and technology of mutual interest. the exchange of knowledge and experience resulting from this agreement will benefit the scientific communities, industry and citizens. this type of cooperation, in the field of science and technology, is particularly important today, when the digital economy accounts for 21% of the growth in gross domestic product in developed countries over the last 5 years, and the european digital economy is expected to grow as much as seven times faster than total gdp in the coming years. the digital economy is not becoming the key to economic growth. it is already the key to economic growth, and it implies innovation, innovation, innovation. working with our strategic partners in this area will surely contribute to the common goal of europe and the us being the pioneers of technological development that will bring new jobs and prosperity to the citizens of both continents.
written. - i support the extension of the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation between the european community and the government of the united states of america. in particular, in the present time of great political and economic upheaval, it is of the utmost importance to invest in the development of a scientific network as a basis for future activities, but neither should the technological component of social development be neglected because of the undeniable connection between the two terms. furthermore, the modern information society must be a knowledge society where the most valuable commodity is precisely information, i.e. timely and adequate trading of the same and its implementation in the existing system. the development of technology, as a modern phenomenon that is known to advance day by day and to make great strides forward, is also a quite important factor that, combined with the knowledge already mentioned, forms a healthy foundation for prosperity and social development that will, ultimately, benefit generations to come after us. concern for the future is our fundamental task and the inclusion of awareness of what we are leaving to our children must be built into the healthy thinking of all the nationalities of the european union that make up this successful and homogeneous whole.
written. - i consider this bilateral cooperation to be of great importance for the further development of the science and technology sector, both in the union and the united states. having regard to decision 98/591/ec of 13 october 1998 concerning the conclusion of the agreement for scientific and technological cooperation between the european community and the government of the united states of america, i have endorsed the draft council decision on the extension of the agreement for scientific and technological cooperation between the european community and the government of the united states of america.
the nagoya protocol was adopted at the international congress on biodiversity held in japan on 29 october 2010. the protocol relates to genetic material and resources to which sovereign states claim rights and regulates their use. the three pillars are access to genetic resources, sharing the results of their development and respecting agreed terms. the agreement contains a provision that obliges the signatories to suspend the use of genetic resources if there is a doubt about the legality of the right of access to them. equal access and fair use will encourage biodiversity conservation and development. the nagoya protocol will also greatly benefit european science and industry, which is why i support this report.
in writing. - the nagoya protocol, an international treaty signed by the 28 eu countries, has as its primary objective the equitable sharing of the benefits of energy resources in order to preserve biodiversity and its availability in nature. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the nagoya protocol to include the whole of the mediterranean basin, which is the largest of the mediterranean countries.
written. - i supported the report on access to genetic resources the so-called nagoya protocol and fair sharing of profits. the entry into force of the protocol requires all 28 eu member states to adopt the convention on biological diversity as well as adequate access to reliable genetic resources and fair sharing of benefits. in this way, it contributes to the conservation of biological diversity and the sustainable use of its components in accordance with the objectives of the convention on biological diversity. this establishes a balance between the providers and users of genetic resources and traditional knowledge associated with such resources. it is of the utmost importance that only legally acquired genetic resources are secured and used throughout the process. the fact that developed countries dominate both knowledge and the proper use of genetic resources makes the nagoya protocol an important foundation in the fight against illegal sources of genetic resources, especially for users in developed countries. the protocol will be applied to all products and services that are not covered by the protocol. the eu should actively and systematically monitor the implementation of the protocol and ensure a fair sharing of the benefits.
written. - i supported this draft resolution because, after the final deliberations of the convention on biological diversity, it is high time to introduce a framework for access to genetic resources, fair and equitable distribution of wealth while contributing to the conservation of biological diversity. since the protocol itself is a tool against bio-piracy, we certainly need a swift ratification process and its entry into force. but we also need a clear definition of bio-piracy to combat the opaque work of multinational corporations, in terms of plant and gene patenting, the theft of traditional knowledge and practical skills. on the other hand, i supported the draft because the protocol's intention is to explore and conserve the genetic resources in the ecosystem, thereby also contributing to the preservation of the natural signal of biological units. but regardless of the 'in situ' method of conservation, i stress that the use of genetic resources or genetic material from nature must not endanger the survival of the ecosystem or the population of species in their natural habitats.
written. - in october 2010, the nagoya protocol on access to genetic resources and the fair and equitable sharing of benefits arising from their utilization was adopted. i support the report by mrs bélier and the consent of the european parliament to the conclusion of the agreement. the genetic resources under the protocol are diverse and cover genetic material of micro-organisms, wild plant and animal species. the application of the nagoya protocol will be of importance for future users and economic operators in areas such as the food and livestock industries, the pharmaceutical and cosmetic industries, forestry, biotechnology, ex situ genetic material collection and scientific research institutions. croatia, like the other member states, must ratify the protocol during 2014, and i call for ratification by all states as soon as possible. the parties agree to cooperate in the implementation of the protocol on genetic resources and the convention on biological diversity. the draft law on the confirmation of the protocol currently under discussion will provide for greater transparency and legal certainty. in conclusion, the eu has a key role to play in the use of genetic resources and it is important to ensure that this role is preserved.
written. - i supported the recommendation of mp sandrine bélier on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the nagoya protocol because, in addition to ensuring that knowledge and discoveries in the area of genetic resources are equally available to all, the protocol also establishes the sovereign right of a state to its biological resources. the parties shall cooperate to ensure that the rights and obligations of the parties are fully respected. the rapid development of mankind has led to the fact that today one in three species is threatened with extinction, since our actions simply lead to the disruption of the balance of a particular ecosystem and unpredictable consequences for its survival. with some 38 000 known species, 101 of which are mammals, many different endemic species, and numerous ichthyophthalmos and ornithophthalmos, the republic of croatia is one of the richest european countries in terms of biodiversity. yet, this biodiversity is also very fragile, and today, 14 percent of mammals, nearly 50 percent of bird species, 59 percent of freshwater and 28 percent of marine fish are considered endangered. i support the protocol, hoping that we can reach the 50 signatory countries as soon as possible and thus try to make it come into force before the international day for biological diversity, which we celebrate on 22 may.
written. - i support this draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the nagoya protocol on access to genetic resources and the fair and equitable sharing of benefits arising from their use, together with the convention on biological diversity. the objective of the protocol is to ensure a fair and equitable distribution of benefits arising from the utilization of genetic resources, in particular in terms of access to and transfer of relevant technologies, taking into account all rights over those resources and technologies and with appropriate means, thereby contributing to the conservation of biological diversity and the sustainable use of genetic resources. the european parliament, the council and the commission expressed their wish for the swift implementation and ratification of the nagoya protocol in the european union. this is an important topic because the eu has a key role to play in the use of genetic resources, and a number of research centres and industries are developing. in this context, sustainable access to genetic resources is essential, as is increased trust of our international partners and a clear legal framework. although croatia has not ratified the protocol, i think it is important that the european union and all its member states ratify the protocol as soon as possible, so that we can maintain a leading role in this matter.
written. - i agree that the role of the union in the use of genetic research through a number of research centres is of paramount importance, and i also believe that a clear legal framework on its use is necessary. in this sense, the conservation and sustainable use of biological diversity are fundamental principles of action. i believe that the trialogue offered a balanced and realistic compromise solution, which would place the minimum burden on researchers and the business sector, and i therefore voted in favour.
written. - i supported the report on the granting of financial assistance by the european globalisation adjustment fund to the valencian textile industry. this is the first application by the european globalisation adjustment fund to be examined in the 2014 budget. the spanish notification concerns 560 measures, 300 of which were co-financed by the european globalisation adjustment fund, in 198 textile companies in valencia during a reference period of nine months, between 1 november 2012 and 1 august 2013. the commission has proposed to allocate eur 840.000. the textile industry and the level of employment in valencia have been seriously affected by the crisis. the unemployment rate increased from 9,61% in 2008 to 29,19% in 2013. the commission has also taken the initiative of proposing a new regulation on the european union's financial contribution to the european agricultural guidance and guarantee fund (eaggf) for the period 2007-2013.
written. - valencia is a historic economic region which still accounts for a tenth of spain's gross social income, but the economic crisis has hit it hard, as has the rest of spain, as can be seen by the large number of unemployed in various industries, including textiles. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, including the countries of the former soviet union, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe. as the conditions laid down in the egf regulation are fulfilled, spain is entitled to a financial contribution under that regulation. this will be the first mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund this year, and with a contribution of eur 840 000 it is expected to reintegrate textile workers into the labour market and consequently strengthen the textile sector in the region.
written. - in the current context of the global financial, economic and social crisis, and highlighting unemployment as one of the main consequences, i support the eu's efforts to use the european globalisation adjustment fund to support workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes. the commission notes that the spanish authorities have not provided any evidence that the measure is compatible with the internal market. the commission notes that the spanish authorities have not provided any evidence that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market. in this context, i support the report by mr daerdén on the mobilisation of eur 840 000 from the european globalisation adjustment fund in the spanish region of comunidad valenciana to implement measures for 300 workers, following the dismissal of 560 workers in 198 textile enterprises.
written. - in the current context of the global financial, economic and social crisis, and highlighting unemployment as one of the main consequences, i support the eu's efforts to use the european globalisation adjustment fund to support workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes. the commission notes that the spanish authorities have not provided any evidence that the measure is compatible with the internal market. the commission notes that the spanish authorities have not provided any evidence that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market. in this context, i support the report by mr daerdén on the mobilisation of eur 840 000 from the european globalisation adjustment fund in the spanish region of comunidad valenciana to implement measures for 300 workers, following the dismissal of 560 workers in 198 textile enterprises.
written. - valencia is hit hard by the economic crisis, unemployment has risen from 9% to 29% between 2008 and 2013, and in this sense the eu, which is based on the principles of solidarity, should help this region which is in a difficult financial situation. i therefore supported the approval of the request to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund in the case of the textile industry in valencia.
written. - i support this proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) in relation to a request from the comunidad valencianae - the spanish textile industry. the european globalisation adjustment fund was created to provide additional assistance to workers suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in the world trade in samples. the commission notes that the spanish authorities have not provided any evidence that the measure is compatible with the internal market. between 2004 and 2012, the eu's trade balance in textiles deteriorated significantly. there was an increase of 17% in eu textile imports while eu textile exports decreased by 3%. i support this plan for a coordinated package of services to co-finance reintegration programmes for 300 workers through counselling, training, entrepreneurship support and intensive job-search assistance and other types of incentives. however, such measures need to be implemented in other parts of the european union, especially in croatia where statistics show that in the first eight months of 2013 the exports of the manufacturing industry compared to the same period last year decreased by 7,5[nbsp ]%, and a much larger decrease of 47,4[nbsp ]% of exports is recorded in the production of other means of transport.
written. - on 8 october 2013, spain submitted an application for a financial contribution from the european globalisation adjustment fund, egf, following redundancies in 198 enterprises in the nuts ii region of the comunidad valenciana. after a thorough examination of this request, the european commission paid spain a total of eur 840 000 to help 300 displaced workers return to the world of work. the employment situation in the comunidad valenciana appears to be particularly vulnerable, given the impact of the crisis on traditional sectors such as the toy, ceramics, footwear and construction sectors and the textile sector, which are very important for the region's economy. given that 8.24% of all workers in the manufacturing industry in the region are textile workers and that the redundancies have further worsened the unemployment situation, i voted in favour.
madam president, (microphone off) on the report of the committee on agriculture and rural development and as a member of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, it is recommended that this commission proposal be rejected, as there are problems with the structure of the proposal which allows the commission to adopt a large number of delegated acts at a later stage. the consultations showed that the relevant sectors and members considered the existing legislative structure to be generally satisfactory, although they were open to looking at existing directives in situations where this was appropriate. we need to focus more on enabling and encouraging biodiversity conservation in agriculture and horticulture, so i think this is a sensitive area to apply a one-size-fits-all approach. given the unknown detailed content of these delegated acts, it is very difficult to assess the practical significance of the proposed directive, and 12 existing directives would be replaced by only one directive, which also raises concerns and therefore i have a negative opinion on this report.
madam president, yesterday we had to listen to the european commissioner, mr tony borg, insisting that we are incapable of understanding how good and necessary the proposal on plant reproductive material is. since the issue of plant reproductive material involves the issue of biodiversity, natural and cultural characteristics, i consider it extremely irresponsible to start a comprehensive regulation of this vast area in such a short time. the 12 regulations so far have proven successful in practice. replacing them once is a very demanding job that takes time. the appropriate proposal is certainly not the one before us. the commission has also concluded that the aid granted to the beneficiaries is compatible with the internal market. the commission must understand that it cannot take decisions unilaterally and that it must respect the voice of the european parliament and the voice of the european citizens. i therefore welcome the proposal to refer this report back to the commission for consideration and to adopt it in the next term of office.
madam president, it's a shame that the biodiversity measure has been returned to the european commission. it is true that this may be better than decisions that may increase or work towards monopolizing seed production, which may well be an obstacle to the development of small producers who are the guardians of biodiversity in many fields. it is good that this issue is not overly politicized, but it deserves full attention and further work in the european commission. these are very deep and important issues of broad ethical significance that will be the subject of very wide debate. the scope of this topic is not just about agriculture, but it affects the whole environment that surrounds us, not just the landscape, but some of the foundations that define it. of course, decisions of such a significant scope are more successful if they are made from a position that is not only unmoved by the environment, but also removed from the field of spiritual ecology.
in writing. - today's overwhelming vote has shown how much the european parliament can do to defend its citizens, in this case by protecting the interests of farmers by introducing a seed directive which, as envisaged in the european commission's proposal, would have been unfair and harmful. the commission was calling for the introduction of new specific directives, in this case 12 of them, merged into a single directly applicable regulation, depriving the member states of the possibility of adopting regulations according to national needs. since the introduction of the lisbon treaty, the european parliament has co-legislative power with the council and we cannot therefore allow rules which have such an impact on our farmers to be applied out of hand and without taking account of the specific features of the territory. i am pleased with today's result because this package of rules, if adopted, would have involved a lot of additional bureaucracy that would have fallen on the shoulders of european farmers. we have once again acted in defence of our citizens.
written. - i supported this report which opposes the replacement of the 12 existing directives by a single regulation. in particular, because of its wide range, plant reproductive material is currently regulated by 12 directives, allowing legislation to be adapted to each specific case, which the proposed replacement by one regulation alone would not be able to achieve. eu legislation on plant reproductive material must enable and encourage the conservation of biodiversity in agriculture and horticulture. the european standards, which are very high compared to those of third countries, create a serious competition problem to the detriment of european companies. the european institutions must act to protect european companies and the market, and that is why i support this report.
written. - over the last few decades we have witnessed a massive loss of genetic diversity; the industrialisation of agriculture has created enormous environmental problems, while the agrochemical industry has continued to dominate the seed market. a new european commission regulation aims to force farmers and gardeners to use standardised seed. old and rare varieties would have a low probability of approval and their cultivation would be punishable by law even in the case of plants planted on private land. small farmers would be forced to meet unprecedented bureaucratic and financial obstacles if they did not register their seed varieties. the system of mandatory registration and certification would be restrictive and regulated down to the smallest detail, and many types of conventional vegetables and cereals would disappear from cultivation. registration of all varieties would become mandatory and lead to complete unification. as the specificity, uniformity and stability (sus) tests are carried out in intensive farming and under conditions comparable to industrial seed obtained from intensive farming, the registration process is discriminatory towards small farmers and only suitable for large systems. i therefore strongly protest against this commission proposal and support the report.
written. - i have endorsed the report on the adjustment with effect from 1 july 2011 of the remuneration and pensions of officials and other servants of the european union and on the correction coefficients to be applied. the financial crisis in the european union has affected member states and different ways of saving the budget or new sources of revenue are being sought. this situation of the economies is justified by the measure adjusting the 2011 and 2012 earnings and pension benefits by 0,8% and by their freezing for 2013 and 2014.
written. - i have a positive opinion of the report. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the amount of the compensation for the period from 1 january 2014 to 31 december 2015. in view of the poor experience of disputes, i support article 19 of annex xiii to the staff regulations as it will enable the necessary measures to be taken to resolve disputes relating to the reconciliation of 2011 and 2012 earnings and pensions. the court of justice of the european union has confirmed that the european parliament and the council enjoy a high degree of discretion as regards the reconciliation of earnings and pensions based on the exemption clause. the financial and economic crisis in many member states in autumn 2011 caused a deterioration in the economic and social situation in the union which forced us to ensure significant macroeconomic adjustments, to take decisions on how to combat unemployment and to address the high level of public deficit and debt in the union, all of which justified measures to reconcile earnings and pensions. i believe that changes are necessary, as well as timely adaptation to the situation.
written. - i have endorsed the report on the adjustment with effect from 1 july 2012 of the remuneration and pensions of officials and other servants of the european union and on the correction coefficients to be applied. the financial crisis in the european union has affected member states and different ways of saving the budget or new sources of revenue are being sought. such a situation of the economies justifies a measure to align the 2012 earnings and pension benefits to 0,8%[nbsp ] and to freeze them for 2013 and 2014.
written. - as every year, under article 64 of the staff regulations, the council, acting on a commission proposal based on a eurostat report, shall adopt a decision before the end of the year on the adjustment of the correction coefficients applicable to the remuneration and pensions of the staff of the eu institutions. the purpose of the proposal is to align the correction coefficients applicable to earnings and pensions with the legislation in force. therefore, i support this proposal because it ensures transparency and social sensitivity. the commission shall, by means of implementing acts, lay down the rules on the application of this regulation and the rules on the application of the delegated and implementing acts referred to in article 5 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011. the general welfare of all officials and other servants of the european union is guaranteed by ensuring equal purchasing power for eu officials and other servants irrespective of their place of employment, while avoiding significant expenditure within the eu financial framework provided for this purpose.
the european union supports the european path of the republic of serbia towards full membership. membership of the republic of serbia would ensure a better position of the european union towards the east, especially in view of the contemporary geopolitical challenges we are witnessing in the example of ukraine and other countries in eastern europe. i want to emphasize that there are open political issues between the republic of croatia and the republic of serbia. i believe there is the political will on both sides to address these issues. while the content of this agreement is largely technical, it also has a political dimension, as it represents a new level of readiness for cooperation by both the candidate countries and the union itself. i believe that the europeanization of serbia will contribute to the stability of this part of europe. serbia's path towards full membership must be gradual and the measures required by the stabilisation and association agreement certainly support this.
in writing. - a stabilisation and association agreement (saa) between the ec and the republic of serbia was signed in luxembourg on 29 april 2008 and entered into force on 1 september 2013. the commission has proposed a regulation on certain procedures for the application of the trade part of the saa which are part of the trade omnibus i (2011/0039 ((cod)). however, in the light of the process, some amendments are necessary before full approval by the council to align the regulations in the field of trade to the regime of delegated and implementing acts following lisbon.
written. - the stabilisation and association agreement with serbia was signed on 29 april 2008 and entered into force on 1 september 2013. in december 2013, the council adopted a negotiating framework, which is important for it to be transparent and for serbia to fulfil all the conditions set. the agreement aims to establish clear rules for the implementation of certain commissions of the interim agreement, in order to allow for the earliest possible application of those commissions in trade and other areas between the eu member states and the republic of serbia under the stabilisation and association agreement, as well as the procedures which are also important to adopt in order to allow for the application of the agreement. what the agreement is trying to achieve is the need to ensure consistency and fairness in all rules and regulations and i therefore supported this recommendation.
written. - although this is a purely technical measure, i refuse to support an amendment that would overturn the council's position on this technical adjustment. the adjustment, as well as the effective and transparent implementation of the stabilisation and association agreement between the european union and serbia, is of particular importance for croatia, which shares with serbia, apart from the border, several outstanding issues. in doing so, i would particularly stress the importance of adjusting the trade dimension of the stabilisation and association agreement which will regulate trade relations between the two countries after croatia's accession to the european union and its withdrawal from cefte, which is a common practice after the accession of each new member state.
written. - i support this resolution on second reading. i welcome the rules on the regulation of tariff quotas for fish and fishery products, tariff reductions, technical adjustments of staff and instruments in trade. i believe that serbia is showing a great desire to make constructive progress, but of course, there is still a lot of room if it wants to reach the final goal. croatia, as the newest member of the european union, has made a great effort during its accession process, so i expect no less commitment from all the other countries that have a desire to join the big european family. the desire and effort are commendable and certainly not to be ignored, but i would particularly stress that this is only the beginning for serbia and that ultimate success depends solely on them. there must not be any relaxation, and there will not be any relaxation, the possibilities are open to them and, i repeat, they themselves decide which direction to take, but that direction must be inspired exclusively by european principles and must also be acceptable to the european union as a whole. accordingly, i expect the serbian authorities to open the archives and speed up the process of information exchange, since there are still 1,665 people missing in croatia.
written. - serbia has made some progress on its path towards the eu, above all in the sphere of fighting corruption and establishing the rule of law, but i think we must be careful in giving positive assessments because there are indications that the anti-corruption actions of the serbian government are a simple witch hunt and a crackdown on the unfit. that is why i voted against this motion. the elections to be held in serbia in a few days' time will determine the future european perspective of that country, and i hope that they will be held in a democratic spirit, with respect for freedom of speech and, in particular, freedom of the media. i expect the next serbian government to fulfil all the conditions for membership of the union and to resolve the outstanding issues with croatia. serbia must finally show determination and good will to solve the issue of missing persons from the homeland war and the return of looted croatian property and recognize the existence of a camp for croats on serbian soil and pay war compensation to croatia.
written. - the stabilisation and association agreement with serbia was the first step towards its full membership of the eu. the process of european integration of serbia, and thus of the other western balkan countries, is of great importance for the stability and security of the entire region. i hope that the stabilisation and association agreement will serve as an impetus to continue the process of comprehensive reforms in serbia, which are necessary for the transformation of society and the end of the 'glorious past' camp.
madam president, i supported this report today because the financial crisis has highlighted significant shortcomings in financial supervision, both in individual cases and in the financial system as a whole. national supervisory models have lagged behind financial globalisation and the integrated and interconnected reality of european financial markets, where a large number of financial institutions operate on a cross-border basis. the crisis has exposed shortcomings in the areas of cooperation, coordination and trust between national competent authorities. it is necessary to create a competent european supervisor that would ensure a true and fair playing field for all actors at union level and as such would influence the increasing integration of financial markets in the union. financial stability is a prerequisite for securing jobs, credit and growth in the real economy. as the crisis has, i believe, reached its peak, we are more experienced and more able to deal with the problems that may arise, and i have therefore supported this possibility of surveillance.
written. - the supervision of financial services of pan-european companies is essential and the european securities and markets authority contributes to this, either through active coordination, national supervisory activities or direct supervision. the development of a single union-wide rulebook ensures consistent application and supervision in all member states, thereby ensuring better investor protection and the stable functioning of financial markets. as regards the european insurance and occupational pensions authority, the protection of policyholders and their insurance policies and the protection of pension scheme members and beneficiaries of pension schemes, while supporting the stability of the financial system and the transparency of markets and financial products, is a core responsibility of that authority. in order to ensure that such processes are conducted efficiently, it is necessary to ensure close cooperation between the national supervisory authorities and the european supervisory authorities. the legal obstacles to the exchange of information often cause administrative burdens and it would be wise to minimise them in this respect, especially when dealing with large, internationally organised insurance companies. the supervisory authorities should have access to the assets of such companies in order to assess the potential financial risks more effectively. transparency is very important in cases like this, and that's why i support this report.
written. - the financial crisis of 2007-2008 revealed significant shortcomings in financial supervision, in particular in the areas of cooperation, coordination, consistent application of union law and trust between national competent authorities. national supervisory models have lagged behind financial globalisation and the integrated, interconnected european financial markets in which a large number of financial institutions operate on a cross-border basis. for those reasons, eiopa (european insurance and occupational pensions authority), eba (european banking authority) and esma (european securities and markets authority) have been established, which are collectively referred to as the european supervisory authorities (esas) and are part of the european system of financial supervision. the system aims to improve the quality and strength of national supervision, strengthen cross-border supervision and define single european rules applicable to all financial institutions in the internal market. the amendments to the legislation should remove legal obstacles to the exchange of information. the new supervisory structure established by the esfs requires close cooperation between the national supervisory authorities and the european supervisory authorities without unnecessary administrative burdens.
written. - i support the report on the proposal for a directive amending the directive with regard to the powers of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority and the european securities and markets authority. i believe that the amendment of the directive is necessary to achieve the stability of the financial system in the european union, which is a prerequisite for sustainable economic growth and job creation. a stable system can only be established with effective system oversight. financial supervision has proved ineffective in the context of the financial crisis, but weaknesses have been identified and we are now in a position to correct them. greater integration of financial system supervision will also allow for greater integration of financial markets and a step forward in the implementation of the european union's single market.
written. - i supported the report by my colleague, mr burkhard balz, on the amendment of the directive with regard to the powers of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority and the european securities and markets authority. financial stability is a prerequisite for securing jobs, credit and growth in the real economy. the financial crisis of 2007-2008 exposed shortcomings in the areas of cooperation, coordination, consistent application of union law and trust between national competent authorities. the amendments to this directive build an integrated european supervision that ensures a genuine level playing field for all actors at union level and reflects the growing integration of financial markets in the union. i agree that this directive should not prevent the european supervisory authorities (esas) from acting in accordance with other powers or in the performance of tasks defined by the regulations on which they are founded, including the non-binding assurance and contribution to the consistent, effective and successful application of union legislative acts. i support the objectives of this directive, such as improving the functioning of the internal market by ensuring a high, efficient and harmonised level of prudential regulation and supervision, protecting policyholders and policyholders, and thus businesses and consumers. i support the ultimate objective of strengthening european supervisory systems to better protect union citizens and to rebuild confidence in the financial system.
written. - i supported the report by my colleague, mr burkhard balz, on the amendment of the directive with regard to the powers of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority and the european securities and markets authority. financial stability is a prerequisite for securing jobs, credit and growth in the real economy. the financial crisis of 2007-2008 exposed shortcomings in the areas of cooperation, coordination, consistent application of union law and trust between national competent authorities. the amendments to this directive build an integrated european supervision that ensures a genuine level playing field for all actors at union level and reflects the growing integration of financial markets in the union. i agree that this directive should not prevent the european supervisory authorities (esas) from acting in accordance with other powers or in the performance of tasks defined by the regulations on which they are founded, including the non-binding assurance and contribution to the consistent, effective and successful application of union legislative acts. i support the objectives of this directive, such as improving the functioning of the internal market by ensuring a high, efficient and harmonised level of prudential regulation and supervision, protecting policyholders and policyholders, and thus businesses and consumers. i support the ultimate objective of strengthening european supervisory systems to better protect union citizens and to rebuild confidence in the financial system.
written. - i support this report. inland waterways play an important role, not only for the transport of goods, but also for the transport of passengers, especially for the urban areas through which they pass. the fact is that vessels used on inland waterways are often old and navigation itself is sometimes restricted or hampered by lack of appropriate infrastructure or financial problems. in order to better assess the state of the fleet and the equipment of vessels and to obtain an accurate picture of navigability in the union, the systematic maintenance of statistical data as well as accurate data relating to the navigable infrastructure is necessary. as statistics are available for air, rail and road freight and passenger transport, information for inland waterway transport would also be of great importance. in order to improve the role of inland navigation in transport, the relevant policy should be based on objective, comparable and reliable statistical data. the conditions for the operation of this sector need to be improved, including infrastructure, environmental protection, markets and innovation, business skills and integration in the logistics chain. to achieve this, the commission should persist in setting out concrete actions for the implementation of the programme by 2020.
written. - i supported this directive which should define situations where procedural or substantive issues of compliance with union law need to be resolved and which national supervisory authorities cannot resolve alone. the financial crisis of 2007-2008 revealed significant shortcomings in financial supervision, both in individual cases and in relation to the financial system as a whole. the crisis has exposed shortcomings in the areas of cooperation, coordination, consistent application of union law and trust between national competent authorities. accordingly, the new supervisory structure established by the esfs requires close cooperation between national supervisory authorities and the european supervisory authorities. the amendments to the relevant legislation should ensure that there are no legal obstacles to the information-sharing obligations laid down in the regulations establishing the european supervisory authorities and that the provision of information does not cause an unnecessary administrative burden.
madam president, i have supported this proposal for a directive to prevent money laundering and terrorist financing. the new directive seeks to improve the existing framework in order to prevent the conversion of funds derived from criminal activities into legitimate funds through the financial system. according to calculations from the international monetary fund, money laundering is estimated to be as much as 5% of global gdp. however, prevention through the new directive must be targeted and proportionate, which means avoiding systematic scrutiny of the entire population, respecting data protection laws and protecting fundamental rights. the data protection concerns should be addressed at all levels by the obliged entities, institutions, member states of the european union, but there must be a balance between the limitations in the right of access to information and the effectiveness of the authority of the data protection authority including the power to investigate all requests regarding the problems of processing of personal data.
written. - organized crime, corruption and money laundering seriously affect developing countries and represent a key obstacle to their progress; they limit their growth potential and impoverish them due to the fact that laundered money, instead of being channelled into productive channels for further investment and productivity gains for society as a whole, is often channelled into 'sterile' investments to make it more easily transferable. the estimated $903 billion a year that developing countries are losing to illicit financial flows and tax evasion, corruption, and the aggressive costs of tax avoidance is staggering. this is another area where the great importance of transparency needs to be emphasised, and i agree with the argument that the european union should increase pressure on countries that often serve as tax havens for illicit financial flows in corporate structures with strict banking secrecy. it is important to understand how illicit money flows threaten the common market and how, in order to alleviate poverty and create some added value and wealth in developing countries, it is necessary to allow the tracking of financial resources, from the point of outflow to the point of inflow, in european financial institutions, and that is why i support this report.
written. - i have supported this communication on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the data accompanying transfers of funds. for the purposes of the prevention, investigation and detection of money laundering and terrorist financing, it is important that payer and payee data are available at every step. the commission should also be able to request the competent authorities of the member states to provide information on the use of the euro, in particular on the use of the euro in the context of the payment transactions. the objective is to combat effectively money laundering and terrorist financing by improving the transparency of funds transfers. huge damage can occur if financial systems are not adequately protected from criminal or terrorist attack and this report, which reinforces the protection mechanisms, is therefore important.
written. - the fact that the flow of laundered money in the world amounts to about 2.7% of global gdp is unacceptable and calls for prompt action. the proposal for a directive on the prevention of money laundering is a welcome one and needs further work to strengthen existing eu rules and bring them into line with international standards updated in 2013. the commission should be able to take into account the need to ensure that the payment service provider is able to provide the payment service provider with the information necessary to fulfil its obligations under this regulation. i therefore also support parliament's proposal that the commission should report to parliament within three years of the implementation of the regulation, with an emphasis on the implications of the application of sanctions and surveillance.
written. - i supported the report by mr kleve kekuš and mr kirkhopp on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the data accompanying transfers of funds. the objective of this report is to improve the monitoring of payments and the prevention and identification of money laundering and terrorist financing in money transfers. the proposed change includes the detection of items that undermine transparency by introducing the following main criteria: information on the recipient of the transfer, increase in credit/debit card and mobile phone usage, requirement to verify the identity of the users and reinforcement of sanctions by the competent and responsible institutions. the united nations office on drugs and crime report estimates that the global money laundering flow currently represents 2.7 percent of global gdp, which is evidence that this is a big problem that needs to be addressed as such, and that is why i supported this report because i believe that more detailed identification of data will contribute to better money laundering control.
written. - it's estimated that the flow of laundered money in the world today is about 2.7% of global gdp. this regulation lays down rules for payment service providers to send information on the payer and the payee throughout the payment process for the purposes of preventing, investigating and detecting money laundering and terrorist financing. i supported this regulation because i believe that such instruments will make it more effective to combat money laundering and terrorist financing and to improve the transparency of transfers, all in order to protect the security of the financial system.
written. - i have supported the implementation and application of this regulation as well as fatf recommendation no 16 which should not lead to unjustified and disproportionate costs for payment service providers and citizens using their services, and the free movement of legal capital must be fully guaranteed throughout the eu. the objective of international cooperation within the financial action task force (fatf) and the global implementation of its recommendations is to prevent regulatory arbitrage and distortions of competition. the scope of the union's activities must ensure that fatf recommendation 16 on electronic transfers, adopted in february 2012, is transmitted in a uniform manner throughout the european union, and in particular to prevent discrimination or mismatches between national payments within a member state and cross-border payments between member states. i would draw particular attention to the union's obligations under article 208 of the lisbon treaty on policy coherence for development, in order to stop the increasing transfer of money laundering operations from developed countries with strict anti-money laundering rules to developing countries where they may be less stringent.
written. - the report by colleagues mojca kleve kekuš and timothy kirkhope, as well as the report by colleagues judith sargentini and krishyanis karins, which we discussed together today, are a good step forward in the fight against money laundering and the various forms of organised crime that are deeply linked to money laundering. that is why i was very happy to support both reports. my colleague klev kekush and my colleague kirkhope in their report, they present in a very comprehensive way the damage that money laundering does primarily to the financial market, but then to our society as a whole. this damage is particularly acute in times of economic crisis, as money laundering has a consequential impact on both the public finances of the european union and the national budgets of each member state. it is of the utmost importance that at european union level, as well as at international level, in cooperation with those countries which are not members of our community, joint measures are adopted to deal with money laundering and all forms of crime connected with it in a systematic and mutually balanced manner. the special threat, of course, is terrorism and potential terrorist activity, whose connection to money laundering is a long-standing fact. i hope this report will help me to bring the evil that i have spoken of to an end as effectively as possible.
madam president, money launderers are reputable businessmen in the employ of major criminals. or it's the other way around. i don't know. there are countries that we call tax havens and we all abhor their behavior. no one is shy about investing anonymous capital from eastern european countries, and even russia, into reputable and legally-ordered countries in the west. it's a free market of capital. and there are countries where money laundering is not even necessary. you simply bring in money, preferably cash, and buy, say, real estate. the state gets to collect the tax and that's the end of it. your money has become legal. only if you're convicted of a crime will they ask you where you got the money. otherwise, nothing. it is necessary to adopt clear rules at european union level to make such behaviour impossible.
madam president, money laundering is very often linked to organised crime and dangerous forms of terrorism which undermine the legal and security foundations of our society and seriously threaten the values on which the european union's legal acquis is based. on the other hand, money laundering also seriously undermines the integrity of our financial sector, weakens our market power and ultimately results in huge losses to our budgets and our public finances. if we add to all this the defeatist statistics on the increase in money laundering linked to a whole range of other criminal activities, it is clear that in defence of the values we stand for, we must step up the fight for the good functioning, integrity and stability of credit and financial institutions. we must continue to fight those who abuse the freedom of movement and the freedom to use the financial services provided by the integrated and efficient financial area that we are striving to create in the european union. this report is a good step forward in the fight against illegal activities in our financial system and that is why i very much supported it. finally, i would like to thank my fellow rapporteurs for their systematic and well-done work.
madam president, i supported the report by my colleagues, mr karinš and ms sargentini, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the prevention of the use of the financial system for the purpose of money laundering and terrorist financing. a revision of the current so-called third anti-money laundering directive of the european union was needed to further strengthen the internal market in order to make financial transfers more transparent in an increasingly complex financial environment and to support the further fight against terrorism and organised crime and the strengthening of the financial system. this type of criminal activity undermines the integrity of the financial sector and the result is, of course, loss of revenue for governments, disruption of market competitiveness and, generally speaking, disruption of the normal functioning of markets and the prevention of development. croatia adopted its law on the prevention of money laundering in 2009 and in this respect cooperates well with both the european union and the council of europe and is working on further efforts to prevent cross-border money laundering activities.
written. - the fight against money laundering in the financial system is of paramount importance to all eu member states, as such activities impede the development of national economies, undermine the integrity and credibility of the financial system and compromise the common market's level playing field, and terrorist financing can have far-reaching consequences beyond the mere economic pursuit of profit. the commission should be able to impose fines on the financial system for infringements of this regulation, including the infringement of the right to privacy and data protection. it is important to assess the money laundering and terrorist financing risks affecting the internal market and this is best done in consultation with member states and supervisory authorities such as the european banking authority, the european insurance and occupational pensions authority and the european securities and markets authority. when talking about better communication between member states and union supervisory authorities, especially in relation to companies involved in cross-border activities, it is important to emphasise the need for better cooperation between member states and supervisory authorities as well as the sharing of information and the interconnection of business registers and their publication to the public and to the responsible authorities. this is one of the prerequisites for minimising illegal activities such as money laundering and terrorist financing.
written. money laundering and terrorist financing are often conducted in an international environment. measures adopted only at national or even european union level, and which do not take into account international coordination and cooperation, have a very limited impact. the measures adopted by the european union in this area should therefore be consistent with other activities undertaken at international level. illicit money flows, and in particular money laundering, represent between 6 and 8.7% of developing countries' gdp, an amount ten times greater than the aid the eu and its member states provide to developing countries. for this reason, the eu must insist on development cooperation to stop the increasing trend of money laundering transfers from developed countries to developing countries with less stringent anti-money laundering legislation. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the definition of the term 'commercial offence' and the definition of the term 'criminal offence'.
written. - the third directive relating to the financial sector requires the identification and verification of parties and beneficial owners and the monitoring of financial transactions. the directive would introduce an obligation to report to competent financial intelligence authorities where there is a suspicion of money laundering or terrorist financing. according to estimates by the un office on drugs and crime, €330 billion is laundered through illegal activities on an annual basis, with a negative impact on the economies of the eu member states. the primary objective of this directive is to achieve transparency of payment sources and transfers of funds for the purpose of combating terrorism and money laundering while complying with data protection requirements. money laundering seriously affects financial sectors in all world markets and is a major drain on budgets and public finances. the commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market if it is granted through state resources and does not distort competition. i support the report on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council to have an effective impact on the reduction of the abuse of the financial system for the purpose of money laundering and terrorist financing.
written. - i supported this report on the prevention of the use of the financial system for the purpose of money laundering and terrorist financing. according to calculations from the international monetary fund, money laundering accounts for up to 5% of global gdp. such criminal activities undermine the integrity of the financial sector, resulting in a loss of revenue for states and distorting competition and negatively affecting the labour market. the registers should be interconnected and accessible to authorities and obliged entities, and member states may grant access to information to other parties and lay down rules on the basis of which the register can be accessed. the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing must be conducted in accordance with the eu legal order, in particular with regard to eu data protection law and the protection of fundamental rights enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights of the european union.
written. - he's working on a deal for a public register of beneficial owners that's been compromised across all political groups. the commission has also received comments from the united kingdom on the application of the principle of proportionality. the achievement of transparency of payment sources and the prevention of the use of the financial system for money laundering and terrorist financing is an objective on which all institutions must work together to enable it to be achieved in the interest of all union citizens. however, i find it unacceptable that exceptions are made for certain sectors, or for certain industries such as the gaming industry. the uncontrolled activities of this industry are fertile ground for money laundering, or the conversion of illegal activities into legal ones. although the majority of members voted in favour of allowing member states, with the commission's approval, to exclude certain gambling services from the payment of the commission's fees under the directive because of the allegedly low risk nature of these operations, i will support my group's views that this provision should also be amended in the future.
written. - i support this proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the prevention of the use of the financial system for the purpose of money laundering and terrorist financing, which is a revision of the 2005 directive. the changing nature of money laundering and terrorist financing requires the legal framework to combat such threats to be continuously adapted. the objective of this directive is to protect the financial system against money laundering and terrorist financing by means of prevention, investigation and detection measures. these amendments are necessary to strengthen the internal market, to make financial transfers more transparent, to support the fight against terrorism and organised crime and to strengthen the financial system of the european union. according to calculations by the international monetary fund (imf), money laundering is estimated to amount to up to 5[nbsp ]% of global gdp. such criminal activities undermine the integrity of the financial sector, result in lost revenue for governments, disrupt the proper functioning of markets and impede development. however, the approach to prevention through the new directive must be targeted and proportionate and should not imply systematic control of the entire population. of course, the data protection law and the protection of fundamental rights must be respected.
written. - i supported the new proposal for a regulation which calls for improvements to the current framework to prevent the conversion of funds obtained from criminal activities into legitimate funds through the financial system. the flows of dirty money through transfers of funds can damage the stability and reputation of the financial sector and threaten the internal market. terrorism has shaken the very foundations of our society. the security, integrity and stability of the financial transfer system could be seriously jeopardised by the efforts of criminals and their associates to conceal the origin of the proceeds of criminal activities. particular attention should be paid to the fulfilment of the obligations set out in article 208 of the agreement on the functioning of the european union, which requires coherence in the development of corporate policy, in order to stem the growing trend of money laundering and activities increasingly moving from developed to developing countries. accordingly, the establishment of registers of beneficial ownership in the member states would give a significant boost to the fight against money laundering, terrorist financing, corruption, tax and other fraud and other illegal activities. all member states should establish financial units that are operational and independent and that analyse information in order to establish links between suspicious transactions.
madam president, i also supported this proposal because the european investment bank is a powerful external intervention instrument whose task is to promote european values and interests in the rest of the world and to contribute to international cooperation and development. the european investment bank's european union guarantees for external activities combine the efficient use of budgetary resources from the european funds with the provision of an external action guarantee fund. the commission has also decided to extend the existing financial envelope of the european investment bank to cover the financing of the european investment bank's external financing operations. the fact that the european union is reducing investment in the eastern partnership countries, north africa and the balkans, and the result is a reduction in the long-term budget of the european union, should have an impact on all union policies. i support and encourage the bank's zero tolerance policy towards all activities carried out for illegal purposes, including money laundering, terrorist financing, tax fraud and tax evasion.
written. - in addition to its core mission of financing investment in the union, which remains its priority and main objective, the european investment bank (eib) is engaged in financing operations outside the union that support and complement external policies, such as the economic integration of countries in the process of joining the eu. the eib shall contribute to the general principles of the union, with democracy, universality and the indivisibility of human rights as the most important, through such financing operations. it also promotes sustainable economic, social and environmental development in developing countries. in order to support the external action of the eu and to enable the eib to finance investments outside the union without affecting its creditworthiness, most of its external operations are covered by a guarantee from the eu budget. the guarantee fund shall provide liquidity reserves to the union budget in the event of losses resulting from eib financing operations and other external actions of the union. the eu guarantee shall be capped at eur 27 billion and may be increased by an additional eur 3 billion. the amounts covered by the eu guarantee in each region should continue to constitute ceilings for eib financing under the eu guarantee and not targets to be met by the eib.
written. - i supported this report because the eu guarantees for the eib's external activities effectively combine budgetary and eu funds through the provision of the external action guarantee fund and the eib's own resources in order to achieve the eu's external policy objectives. the proposed new decision will cover the eu guarantee for the eib's external financing operations during the period from 1 january 2014 to 31 december 2020. the eu will significantly reduce its investments in the balkans, the eastern partnership countries and north africa. the reduction in investment is the result of a reduction in the eu's long-term budget that will affect all union policies. the financial constraints in the next budgetary period will mean a reduction in the eib's annual external borrowing from the budget from an average of eur 4,2 billion to eur 3,6 billion per year, which will affect all activities. this decision is good for croatia because investing in areas outside the eu borders will raise the standard of citizens in the immediate vicinity of the republic of croatia. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu-funded actions and will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu-funded actions. this will promote european values and interests in the rest of the world and contribute to international cooperation and development.
written. - i support the adoption of the report on the granting of an eu guarantee to the european investment bank against losses under financial operations supporting investment projects outside the union. these are projects of interest to the european union and i therefore support the continuation of the guarantee coverage in the new period from 2014 to 2020. the budget for investment in this period will be smaller, so i believe that it is necessary to allocate the available funds more efficiently and, with the help of these funds, to support closely the eu policies beyond the borders of the union. the 2012 annual report on the eib focuses on the eib's risk-averse nature and on projects with a higher potential for value-added. on the other hand, it is very important that the eib maintains its current aaa credit rating. in this respect, i regard as positive the request of the committee on budgets to increase the maximum amount of the guarantee for eib external investments compared to the original request of the european commission, thus allowing for a higher coverage of investment risks. finally, i would particularly welcome the objectives of the european union's guarantees to the eib in the new period, which include the protection of european interests, the economic integration of the pre-accession countries and the eu's neighbours with the eu member states and the strengthening of the sme sector.
written. - the activities of the european investment bank under this proposal shall contribute to the general principles of the union, in particular those laid down in article 21 of the treaty on european union (teu) where democracy, the universality and indivisibility of human rights are paramount, and to the policy objectives of the union, including the promotion of sustainable economic, social and environmental development of developing countries, poverty eradication and the prosperity of the union in a changing world economic environment. in its financing operations outside the union falling within the scope of this decision, the eib should continue to seek to improve coordination and cooperation with european and international financial institutions, in particular those participating in the eu platform for connecting external cooperation, and to promote the introduction of common governance standards and common evaluation criteria. accordingly, i supported this proposal because the said coordination and cooperation should aim to minimise possible duplication of costs and unnecessary overlaps.
madam president, i also supported this resolution on access to genetic resources, but also on fair and equitable sharing of the benefits arising from their use in the union. the entry into force of the nagoya protocol requires the european union to implement the convention on biological diversity, which aims to protect biological and landscape diversity, the sustainable use of its components, but also the equitable distribution of benefits arising from the use of genetic resources, as well as adequate access to genetic resources, including fair and equitable sharing of the benefits arising therefrom. therefore, genetic resources, namely traditional and modern varieties of agricultural plants, horticultural plants, medicinal and aromatic plants, fruit species, wild relatives of agricultural plants and all other plants that can be used for cultivation in agriculture for food, need to be under increased scrutiny in order to preserve their viability for us and for future generations.
madam president, i support the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on access to genetic resources and the fair and equitable sharing of benefits arising from their use in the union, prepared by our colleague mrs sandrine bélier. in line with the objective of policy coherence for development set out in article 208 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, this regulation restores a fair balance between providers and users of genetic resources and traditional knowledge associated with such resources, while contributing to the conservation of biological diversity and the sustainable use of its components in accordance with the objectives of the provisions of the convention on biological diversity. the european union should also act proactively to ensure that the objectives of the nagoya protocol on global multilateral profit-sharing mechanisms are achieved. the nagoya protocol aims to promote the sharing of genetic resources and traditional knowledge, in particular by promoting the sharing of genetic resources between developed countries and developing countries, and by promoting the sharing of genetic resources between developed countries and developing countries.
written. - the purpose of this regulation is to transpose the provisions of an international treaty known as the nagoya protocol into european union law. the protocol relates to genetic material and resources to which sovereign states claim rights and regulates their use. it also deals with the control of access to genetic resources and the fair and equitable sharing of benefits arising from their use. genetic resources and related traditional knowledge will be used subject to mutually agreed conditions between states. the parties shall cooperate in the development of the relevant international standards and standards, including those for the protection of the genetic resources of the parties. equal access and fair use will encourage biodiversity conservation and development, and i therefore support this report.
written. - it's a worrying fact that biodiversity loss is steadily increasing and accelerating. the number of animal species threatened with extinction worldwide is alarming. for this reason, biodiversity needs to be preserved, and it is biodiversity that is the source of innovation and discovery in scientific research and technological applications. i agree that we must ensure that the benefits arising from the use of genetic resources are shared fairly and equitably. i also support the view that a union profit-sharing fund should be established to collect and channel contributions towards the conservation of the world's biodiversity in the time until the establishment of the multilateral mechanism. in conclusion, i support this report with the aim of establishing a fair balance between providers and users of genetic resources and traditional knowledge associated with these resources, which contributes to the conservation of biodiversity. since its independence, croatia has taken care of its genetic resources, and not a single breed has become extinct in the past two decades.
written. - in the context of the forthcoming entry into force of the nagoya protocol, the eu and its member states must implement the convention on biological diversity and ensure adequate access to genetic resources and fair and equitable sharing of the benefits arising from their use in the union. i therefore supported this commission proposal which focuses on creating the conditions for achieving those objectives. increased biodiversity loss in daily life is on the rise. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to apply the principle of subsidiarity to the measures taken by the member states in the field of biodiversity. the eu should make a stronger contribution to preventing biodiversity loss. genetic resources are the backbone of many economic sectors, including food production, forestry, biotechnology, development and production of medicines, cosmetics or the development of bio-based energy sources, and are one of the most important factors in the implementation of strategies designed to restore degraded ecosystems and protect endangered species. the benefits arising from the sustainable use and conservation of genetic resources should be shared equitably and contribute to poverty reduction and thus to the development objectives of the nagoya protocol. the adoption of a clear legal framework would benefit all users and ensure sustainable access to genetic resources and legal certainty throughout the chain.
madam president, most citizens only associate the cost of roadworthiness and registration of motor vehicles with the cost of time and money. as any driver would agree, but the procedure is to only let safe vehicles on the road. the commission has also proposed that the new rules should be applied to all types of vehicles, including those with a maximum mass exceeding 10 tonnes. in this way, the new european rules will not place an additional burden on the budgets of households and businesses. the commission has also received comments from interested parties on the application of the exemption from the registration requirement. i particularly welcome the new provisions on the mutual recognition of renewed technical examinations in the member states. i believe that this will make life much easier for croatian citizens who are very interested in buying cars on the european union market.
written. - i supported this report on periodic roadworthiness tests for motor vehicles and their trailers which sets minimum standards for regular vehicle inspections. the report covers passenger cars, buses, vans and heavy goods vehicles and their trailers, but not scooters and motorcycles. the proposal is in line with the road safety conditions set out in the white paper 'guide to the single european transport area' with the aim of further improving road safety and ensuring a high level of environmental protection.
written. - statistics from 2009 show that the european union has an average of 473 motor vehicles per 1000 inhabitants, with some member states having one of the highest rates in the world. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the aid granted to the beneficiary of the measure is compatible with the internal market. if we keep in mind the free movement of citizens throughout the european union as one of our fundamental objectives, it is clear that we will need to harmonise and regulate legislation and regulations relating to roadworthiness tests for motor vehicles. for example, i would point out the great benefit of mutual recognition of certificates between member states, for example if an application for re-registration of a vehicle has been received in the case where the vehicle originates from another member state, the procedure is greatly facilitated for citizens if the registration authority recognises the record of the technical examination of the vehicle after its validity has been confirmed at the time of re-registration. i am therefore pleased that this regulation harmonises and defines these issues as well, which are particularly important for citizens who, for business reasons, often travel in their personal vehicles across the union for long periods.
written. - i support the report by mr kuhn on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on periodic technical inspections of motor vehicles and their trailers. the proposed regulation aims to ensure increased road safety and to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by defining minimum standards for roadworthiness tests of motor vehicles across the eu. the regulation addresses in particular the standardisation and quality of roadworthiness tests, vehicle test equipment and the skills and competences of the personnel performing roadworthiness tests. advances in motor vehicle technology and traffic signals, improved road safety, stricter standards of roadworthiness, and increased driver awareness have nearly halved the number of road deaths between 2002 and 2012. despite this, 28 136 people died in road accidents in the eu in 2012. a similar trend is seen in croatia, where the number of fatalities is decreasing year by year, with 367 people killed on roads in 2013. the share of 21,4%[nbsp ]% of defective vehicles in roadworthiness tests in croatia in 2013 has been almost constant over the last seven years and other member states have similar experiences. all of this indicates that the existing regulation is working, but more efforts are needed to achieve the goal of halving the number of road deaths by 2020, and i therefore support the report.
written. - the vehicle performance test is an important part of the system that ensures that vehicles are maintained in a safe and environmentally acceptable condition during use. periodic tests should be the main means of ensuring technical correctness. i supported this proposal by the commission to impose new rules on roadworthiness tests for motor vehicles and their trailers, and for motorcycles and scooters, all with a view to increasing road safety and higher environmental protection standards.
written. - i support this report. the changes it mentions with a view to enforcing road safety and ensuring a high level of environmental protection are more than positive. i support mandatory testing for motorcycles and scooters as well as light trailers, increased frequency of roadworthiness checks for light passenger vehicles over 6 years old, stricter requirements for on-road inspector training, and more harmonised standards for testing the equipment used. the report shall also contain a provision that, in the case of re-registration of a vehicle coming from another member state, the validity of the roadworthiness test shall be recognised even if the certificate is issued in another member state. it is certainly an important step towards the creation of common harmonised rules at european union level, which serve to facilitate the movement of citizens. all of this, of course, is aimed at promoting the fundamental human freedoms on which the union is based, and i therefore, as always, welcome and welcome all those activities aimed at establishing a single society with a huge perspective, which the european union is.
written. - i supported this regulation which aims to encourage further harmonisation and standardisation of periodic roadworthiness tests for vehicles, which should ultimately result in the establishment of a single market for periodic roadworthiness tests in the union with a system of mutual recognition of roadworthiness records, which would allow vehicles to be tested in any member state. technical inspections are part of a wider regulatory system that covers vehicles throughout their life cycle, from approval, through registration, to inspection, to disposal. the establishment and interconnection of national and manufacturer electronic vehicle databases would in principle contribute to improving the efficiency of the entire administrative chain dealing with vehicles and to reducing costs and administrative burdens. given that the high standards of technical examinations require a high level of skill and competence of the examination staff, a training system including initial training and periodic refresher training, as well as a transitional period, should be introduced to allow for a smooth transition of current examination staff to the system of interim training.
the commission should be able to provide the information requested by the member states in accordance with article 7 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011 in order to enable the commission to carry out its tasks. the introduction of the use of a national electronic database helps to facilitate the detection of fraud and the detection of illicit trafficking in stolen vehicles. the aim of this proposal is to improve road safety and to allow for better environmental protection, which would further improve the performance of roadworthiness tests and road checks. i agree with the general objective of the report on the amendment of the council directive on the registration documents of vehicles, which authorises the use of vehicles in traffic itself, and which prescribes new requirements for the electronic registration of a database that should be linked to all member states, as well as the re-registration and destruction of off-road vehicles that are not only dangerous for drivers but for all road users, and general european standards on the protection of nature and health.
madam president, i support the report by mrs savisaar-toomast on the proposal for a directive on vehicle registration documents. the amendments, together with the other changes in the package, aim to improve the application of roadworthiness tests for motor vehicles, as well as the roadworthiness tests for light commercial vehicles, in particular in cases where the technical condition constitutes an immediate risk to road safety. the proposed amendments define more precisely the places of registration of vehicles, introduce new requirements for electronic registers of registered motor vehicles and a mechanism for automatic data refresh in the technical inspection of vehicles, registration or destruction. the inclusion of the roadworthiness information in the registration documents will avoid the overlapping of documents and will facilitate the suspension of vehicles from circulation that do not have a valid roadworthiness test. in all of the above, i support the report because i believe that these measures will reduce the bureaucracy involved in registering motor vehicles and will increase road safety, as well as make it easier for union citizens to register vehicles from other member states.
written. - this proposal, as part of the 'feasibility package' for motor vehicles, aims to improve safety on european roads and protect the environment. i support this and the other directives in the 'package' because i believe it will reduce the number of road accidents and deaths. the new provisions will improve the performance of roadworthiness tests and inspections of motor vehicles, both at roadworthiness testing stations and on the roads. the road-side inspection of vehicles shall be carried out when it is evident that their driving condition poses a danger to other road users. in such cases, the registration documents of the vehicle will be temporarily or permanently withdrawn on the spot. the vehicle must meet all the required safety and environmental standards before it is placed on the market. each member state is obliged to carry out the first registration of a vehicle which has previously obtained a european authorisation, issued on the basis of a 'certificate of compliance' issued by the vehicle manufacturer.
written. - i have supported this report on the amendment of council directive 1999/37/ec on the registration documents for motor vehicles. this proposal is part of the technical package for the support and implementation of the usability testing of motor vehicles with the aim of improving road safety and environmental protection. it is important that the assessment of the technical condition of the vehicle is correct, in particular when it creates an immediate danger to road safety. the vehicle shall be designed to meet the requirements of the relevant regulatory or individual approval requirements, which ensure an optimal level of safety and environmental standards, before it is placed on the market. more precise definitions at the place of registration of vehicles, the possibility of withdrawing and revoking registration certificates and the introduction of an electronic database of registrations and the monitoring of the results at vehicle inspection, re-registration and destruction stations will allow better control and suppression of the illegal car market.
written. - to make the validity of vehicle inspection records more meaningful, they must be valid throughout the european union, and this requires the linking of member states' databases. i therefore welcome the proposal to revise the terms of the exchange of data between national databases of electronic registrations and other data in the registration dossier. i believe that this link will make it easier for officials to see the basic data for citizens of other member states, as well as for citizens who register vehicles in other member states. i also support amendments aimed at clarifying and making the legislation itself more coherent, and in particular those aimed at reducing administration and consequently increasing the efficiency of the procedure itself.
written. - i support this commission proposal concerning vehicle registration documents. the commission has also proposed to amend the provisions of directive 2008/57/ec to ensure that the registration of vehicles is not subject to a suspension of the registration certificate. i also support the part that proposes new regulations and requirements for electronic registration databases and the tracking of results at roadworthiness offices, which also leads to records on vehicle re-registrations and destruction. i believe that the correctness information, as proposed, should be included in the registration documents in order to eliminate the need for multiple documents. i agree that vehicle registration needs to be simplified to allow for a reduction in the number of vehicles to be used on the roads without valid certificates of conformity. i welcome and think positively of all innovations that contribute to development in any way. in the information society, it is of the utmost importance to be informed at the right time to avoid negativity, so the timely actions we take are purely positive.
written. - i supported the proposal, as i believe that it does not unnecessarily encroach on the competences of the member states of the union and that it can indeed contribute to the development of a positive legislative framework for road safety at union level, which i certainly welcome. i welcome the commission's proposal which is moving in the positive direction of reducing the administrative burden, so that vehicle information should be stored in national electronic registers. i also support the call for cooperation between member states through bilateral or multilateral exchanges of information, which will certainly contribute to efficiency and savings in that sector.
written. - the directive on roadworthiness tests for commercial vehicles is part of the 'motor vehicle technical suitability package' and aims to improve safety on european roads and protect the environment. a number of new measures have been proposed to ensure that only technically perfect commercial vehicles are on the road. currently, statistics vary considerably across the member states. the reason for this is the differences in the practice and procedures of conducting field tests on the roads themselves. in some member states, the tests are systematic and thorough, while in some member states, the inspection means the verification of documentation and visual inspection of the vehicle. this report aims at harmonising the rules and proposes a set of minimum measures to be imposed by all member states. the adoption of a new package of traffic rules will improve road safety and that is why i voted in favour of this report.
written. - i supported this report on roadworthiness tests for commercial vehicles in the union to reach the stated target of reducing road fatalities by 50% between 2010 and 2020. the european commission proposed, among other things, a two-pronged strategy for safer vehicles. the first strategy is harmonisation, i.e. strengthening of eu legislation on roadworthiness testing and roadworthiness inspection. the second strategy is to consider the deployment of a european electronic platform with the aim of harmonising the exchange of vehicle data such as registration, inspection results, etc. today, there are huge differences between the technical inspections that carry out checks in the member states, and this report brings new developments that harmonise and improve the legislation and the technical inspections themselves.
written. - commercial vehicles make up a significant part of transport for small and medium-sized enterprises, and the cross-border transport of goods and materials by commercial vehicles is important for the free movement of goods, so i believe that by harmonising roadworthiness tests the role of this transport will only strengthen the competitiveness of a market that depends on the fast and efficient transport of goods and materials by commercial vehicles. the republic of croatia also considers it important that the technical correctness of commercial vehicles is harmonised and that checks are set at the same technical and performance level throughout the union, as in the republic of croatia as many as one in ten cars are classified as commercial vehicles, of which almost twenty thousand were sold last year alone, even in a period of reduced car sales.
written. - i supported the report by mrs sehnalo on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on roadworthiness tests for commercial vehicles in the union. the primary purpose of the amendment is to ensure the development of a risk assessment system that will focus inspections and surveys on commercial vehicles and companies that have registered commercial vehicles with questionable safety standards. this will also relieve the burden on companies that own commercial vehicles that meet all safety and environmental standards. the estimated unloading will reduce unnecessary controls by 2,3 million, resulting in savings of over eur 80 million for companies complying with control standards. i believe that defining an eu-wide quota for roadworthiness tests of commercial vehicles of a minimum of 5% of registered vehicles in these categories will greatly contribute to raising road safety standards. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of vehicles registered in croatia in 2013 and that the number of registered vehicles registered in croatia in 2013 was not significant. but what worries me is their age. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of buses registered in croatia in 2013 and that the number of buses registered in croatia in 2013 is not known. the example of my own country and the age of the commercial vehicle fleet make it clear that better and targeted controls will contribute to road safety and i therefore support the report.
written. - i support this report. in 2012, the commission presented a set of three legislative proposals aimed at strengthening road safety, environmental protection and fair competition by upgrading the current conditions for periodic roadworthiness tests, roadworthiness tests for commercial vehicles, and vehicle registration. the current directive provides for the condition of checking the technical condition of commercial vehicles between occasional inspections with roadworthiness tests, which are unexpected, on the spot. there are a number of new elements that will bring about improvement because we are aware that road safety is a major social problem. parliament should be clear in its commitment to road safety. regardless of the technical inspections on the ground, we know that the effectiveness of road safety policy ultimately depends on the behaviour of users. for this reason, education and training should be a priority. however, we must take into account that today there are huge differences between member states in the way roadworthiness tests are carried out. the selection of vehicles to be subject to roadside inspection should be based on the risk profile of the owner in order to reduce the burden on owners who maintain their vehicles appropriately. in addition, member states should ensure that roadworthiness tests are carried out without discrimination on the basis of the nationality of the driver or the country of registration or entry into service of the commercial vehicle.
written. - i supported this report because a system of unexpected technical inspections is needed to ensure that vehicles remain technically correct throughout their useful life after they are put on the market. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the conditions for the authorisation of roadworthiness tests for commercial vehicles. accordingly, roadworthiness tests should be carried out using a risk-scaling system based on the number and severity of defects found on vehicles. the risk-scaling system should be based on an appropriate level of harmonisation of periodic roadworthiness tests and roadworthiness tests between all member states, taking into account the volume of commercial vehicle traffic between member states and in order to avoid any discrimination based on the country of registration of the vehicle.
written. - i supported the report on railway statistics concerning the collection of data on goods, passengers and accidents. it is important to simplify the current rules for the collection of statistical data in order to reduce the data transmission period for annual rail passenger data. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the establishment of a european railway agency. the european railway agency's task in the field of railway safety is to work continuously to improve safety and to collect high-quality data for statistical analysis. it is also of particular importance, as highlighted in the report, that the european commission carry out appropriate consultations during the preparation of the material, in particular with certain experts, and that the views of people working in the railway sector are taken into account. the commission should ensure timely and valid documentation to the european parliament and the european council when drafting acts. it is necessary to confer implementing powers on the commission in relation to the specification of the information to be provided for the report on the quality and comparability of results and on the result exchange arrangements, which are carried out by eurostat.
written. - the collection and processing of statistical data is a useful tool in the analysis of large and branched systems, including the rail system of the european union. this way we can uncover patterns that aren't obvious when analyzing individual cases, and it's a good first step to understanding the system at a deeper level, and that's how we can best make it more efficient and better. for example, by adding an obligation to collect accident data, we will go a step further in addressing safety deficiencies and thus correct them in a timely manner and prevent accidents in rail transport. the european railway agency's role in the field of railway safety should, of course, be continuously improved, and in this respect, in particular, effective cooperation with eurostat is necessary to ensure the compatibility and consistency of the data collected and to avoid possible disruptions that may result from the transfer of responsibility from eurostat to the european railway agency. i also welcome the commission's proposal to simplify the rules for the production of rail transport statistics for the european union and to extend the data collection to rail infrastructure. in order to make the statistics as relevant and comprehensive as possible, it is important to include additional data such as freight statistics based on the distance travelled by freight.
written. - i supported the report of representative michael cramer on railway statistics concerning the collection of data on goods, passengers and accidents. the aim of this proposal is to update, simplify and improve the already existing legal framework which is already standardised in relation to this railway segment. in this report, it is particularly important to highlight the cooperation of eurostat with the european railway agency in the collection of data on railway accidents in order to ensure the consistency and full comparability of the data collected. the role of the european railway agency in the field of railway safety needs to be continuously improved. such cooperation is essential not only to ensure effective interaction between those two bodies but also for the necessary need for compatibility and consistency of the data collected. the main strategic objectives of rail transport in croatia are oriented within the framework of the strategy of overall spatial development and an efficient technologically developed railway system that would enable the railway to participate on an equal and competitive basis in the european transport market. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's railway legislation and the implementation of the union's railway safety legislation.
written. - i support this report. the harmonisation of data and the effective cooperation between eurostat and the european railway agency are key and the stock distance data are the basis of the rail freight model. also, with regard to railway safety, it is necessary to collect accident data. as the progress in rail transport itself over the past years has been clear, with the number of accidents having decreased significantly, the positive trend should be maintained, but further work should be done to increase safety in order to minimise the possibility of negative consequences. the rail transport service has also been undergoing considerable improvement over time, which has resulted in a significant expansion of end-users in terms of equalising the quality of this mode of transport with other, possibly better quality, and currently more representative modes. the railway infrastructure has undergone significant changes over the past years, although i believe that even more significant investment would not be in vain, therefore i support all positive activities that lead to the achievement of the final goal.
written. - i support the commission's request to simplify the regulation by proposing to store only detailed (concrete) data and to abandon the current concept of simplified reporting. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 concerning the establishment of a european railway agency. the commission also proposes to delete the requirement to collect accident data, as these data are collected simultaneously by the european railway agency (era). the requested amendment of the regulation takes into account the adaptation of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. the commission considers that the proposed increase in the number of documents by the committee on transport and tourism would significantly increase the administrative burden on member states. accordingly, i abstained.
written. - the importance of statistical data is essential for a correct assessment of costs, unnecessary losses, and developments on the railways in all member states, especially in terms of the environmental aspect of this type of transport, given the increasing congestion, pollution, noise and co2 emissions, i believe that it would be more constructive to broaden the dialogue on the major problems facing many national railways, especially the newer eu member states, such as croatia. these problems are certainly the losses of national companies and the desire for rapid privatization without a clear strategy. while the creation of a single european transport area is impossible without a single european railway area, which can be achieved by completing the process of market liberalisation, there are also a number of risks to the end result and quality of transport and the existence of local railways. i believe that statistics could easily be used to mislead the wrong conclusion that liberalisation and privatisation will bring absolute benefits and regeneration to rail transport, while the negative aspects of these processes will remain under-emphasised.
written. - the standardisation of electronic invoicing systems is necessary in order for eu law to follow the development of national and international law on electronic public procurement. it is necessary to remove the barriers to trade that arise from the simultaneous existence of several legal requirements and technical standards for electronic invoicing. those obstacles reduce interoperability across the union. it is necessary to establish a common european standard. as a member of the group of the socialists and democrats in the european parliament, i believe it is important that smes also benefit from electronic invoicing in public procurement. this can be ensured by a european standard. the european standard should be user-accessible, i.e. easy to understand and use. in this respect, account should also be taken of the fact that small and medium-sized enterprises in particular, as well as smaller contracting authorities and sectoral contracting entities, have limited human and financial resources. in conclusion, i support this report.
written. - i supported the report on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on electronic invoicing in public procurement because this measure represents an important step towards the establishment of a modern public administration without paper documents. the use of electronic invoicing in public procurement should be encouraged and interoperability in electronic invoicing in public procurement should be enabled. in the case of electronic invoicing, the national authorities should be able to provide the information requested by the contracting authority. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 concerning the conditions for the granting of such authorisations. the different requirements, standards, networks and regulations related to electronic invoicing represent excessive complexity and legal uncertainty for companies, given the fact that it cannot be assumed that an electronic invoice will be accepted in another member state. the absence of a common european standard forces companies to adhere to new standards depending on the market. this increases operating costs and leads to price increases. the existing difficulties represent barriers to entry and need to be removed, which is why i supported this report.
written. - with technological advances and increasingly faster and more ubiquitous access to the internet, the past few years in europe have seen a shift from paper-based to digital administration. for example, in croatia last year, all trade was digitally linked to the tax administration, and the result was a staggering 13 billion kuna more reported revenue than the year before. in public procurement, electronic invoicing is of particular interest to the european union for reasons of greater efficiency and faster administration, but above all for invoicing in cases of cross-border public procurement. as regards electronic invoicing in public procurement, some member states such as austria have already introduced this obligation, due to differences in standards and lack of interoperability between member states, over 80% of all invoices are still exchanged in paper form. i therefore fully welcome this initiative which aims to strengthen interoperability in electronic invoicing in public procurement and to harmonise member states' standards.
written. - i supported the report by my colleague birgit collin-langen on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on electronic invoicing in public procurement because i believe that electronic invoicing in public procurement, as in other award procedures, is an important step towards establishing public administrations without paper documents. however, i believe that there is a problem of different requirements, standards, networks and regulations related to electronic invoicing which then leads to excessive complexity and legal uncertainty for businesses, especially in cross-border invoicing. therefore, in order to remove those difficulties and subsequently barriers to entry, i strongly support the proposal of this directive to establish a new european standard for a semantic data model for electronic invoicing, as this standard would bring together national standards and ensure interoperability in electronic invoicing, thus allowing customers and suppliers in a public procurement procedure to exchange invoices at the lowest cost and in the simplest way. the commission notes that the new directive is not intended to apply to the electronic invoicing market in croatia, but to the electronic invoicing market in the eu.
written. - i support this report which aims to enable interoperability in electronic invoicing in public procurement. this goal is welcome because it represents an important step in establishing paperless administration. the parliament already pointed out in its resolution of 20 april 2012 the fragmentation of the market due to the increased number of national regulations related to electronic invoicing and the need for interoperable solutions related to electronic invoicing. the council conclusions stress the importance and urgency of promoting a digitised internal market that will be easy to use and will include electronic invoicing in public procurement. in order to ensure the smooth functioning of the internal market, the commission should be able to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the rules on electronic invoicing. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 concerning the conditions for the granting of such authorisations. the different requirements, standards, networks and regulations related to electronic invoicing represent an excessive complexity and legal uncertainty for undertakings, given the fact that it cannot be assumed that an electronic invoice will be accepted in another member state. the absence of a common european standard forces companies to adhere to new standards depending on the market. this increases operating costs and leads to price increases.
written. - parliament already pointed out in its resolution of 20 april 2012 the fragmentation of the market due to the increased number of national regulations related to e-invoicing and the need for interoperable solutions related to e-invoicing. the european council in its current conclusions underlines the importance and urgency of promoting a digitised internal market that will be easy to use and include electronic invoicing in public procurement. i support the simplification of this proposal for a directive, which aims to solve the problems of interoperability in cross-border electronic invoicing by establishing a european standard that will represent an appropriate measure to facilitate cross-border invoicing. the pilot phase should test the practicality and user-friendliness of the standard, in particular its functionality and whether it can be introduced by contracting authorities and contracting parties at minimal financial cost. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 concerning the conditions for the participation of the candidate countries in the union's programmes for the development of the european space programme.
written. - this report provides funding to member states to monitor the implementation of the common agricultural policy in the next budgetary period which should result in the first report in 2016. a number of changes introduced by the common agricultural policy vote, such as the introduction of stronger controls to ensure that direct payments go exclusively to active farmers, the conditionality of 30% of the member states' budget for direct payments to greening projects such as crop diversification, organic production, etc., the abolition of the possibility of double funding of the same greening project, etc., require quality monitoring of implementation. i welcome this report because it is conducive to the sustainability of the agricultural sector.
in writing. - with the implementation of the reform of the new common agricultural policy, the transparency factor has become a common denominator. we wanted to ensure that all 'active' farmers had access to the funds and we also wanted to increase our attention to the protection and safeguarding of consumer health. that is why i welcome this report on the structure of agricultural holdings and the survey on agricultural production methods, which is aimed specifically at improving coordination between olaf's activities and financing on agricultural matters.
written. - i particularly supported the report because the implementation of the common agricultural policy, in coordination with other european union policies, is an opportunity for croatian agriculture to exploit its full potential, and thus become more competitive and sustainable, while preserving its tradition. the european commission proposal establishes the financial framework for the period 2014 to 2018, sets the maximum eu financial support to croatia for the costs of carrying out the farm structure survey (fss), and amends the committee assisting the commission. the maximum amount for croatia for fss in 2016 will be eur 500 000. the proposed programme intends to ensure continued support for the monitoring and implementation of the common agricultural policy by extending financial assistance to member states, including croatia, for the collection of farm data needed to analyse trends in eu agriculture.
written. - i support the report on farm structure and research on agricultural production methods. the objective is to provide further financial support to member states for the collection of data on the structure of agricultural holdings in order to define the financial framework for the period 2014.[nbsp ] 2018 with a view to supporting the structure of agricultural holdings in 2016. on a proposal from the commission, the budgetary and legislative powers are to fix the amount for the period 2014 to 2018 on the basis of the new financial framework for the period starting in 2014. the report also states that croatia's accession to the european union needs to be taken into account and i welcome the funds earmarked for the newest member state. the maximum amount of appropriations for the structure of agricultural holdings in 2016 for croatia will be eur 500000. in this context, i would like to emphasise in particular the need to support small farms as a traditional form of agricultural production, which includes as many as 90% of farms in croatia.
written. - this initiative aims to secure funding for research on the structure of agricultural holdings in 2016 and sets the maximum eu financial contribution to croatia to cover the costs of the research. i support the regulation because for croatia, rural development policy is of paramount importance, as almost 40% of the population lives in rural areas (the eu average is 24%). the commission notes that the aid granted to the beneficiaries was limited to the minimum necessary to cover the costs of the operation of the plant. medium-sized farms are the key force for overall rural development in the eu, but there are very few such farms in croatia. i believe it is extremely important to link small farms into associations or cooperatives and thereby increase the quality and competitiveness of their products. the commission has also found that the product concerned is not in competition with other products in the union. food production is of strategic importance for stable economic growth and sustainable development in all eu member states. croatia is allocated over eur 330 million per year through rural development measures. this presents great opportunities for young farmers who can develop products with their ideas that will compete in the global market.
written. - as a representative from croatia, the newest member state of the union, i am pleased that croatia has been added to this technical regulation which aims to secure funding for farm structure research for 2016, and several related research projects. the union shall finance those studies at the rate of 75%, subject to a pre-defined national ceiling of the estimated cost.
written. - this is a very technical report which the european parliament has amended into two elements. the first concerns the protection of the environment. the commission has also proposed that the measures be extended to include the following products: in the second part, the amendments relate to the decision-making process between the european commission and the european parliament. the european parliament shall be given a period of four months to react to acts adopted by the commission. i support this report, which is essential for the continued functioning of the agricultural markets.
in writing. - the commission proposal for a regulation aims to replace council regulation (ec) no 1216/2009 of 30 november 2009 on the trade arrangements applicable to certain goods resulting from the processing of agricultural products. the proposal essentially aims to align this regulation with the distinction between delegated powers and implementing powers of the commission introduced by articles 290 and 291 tfeu. i voted in favour of aligning the regulations with the system of delegation and the implementing acts introduced by the lisbon treaty.
written. - i supported this report which seeks to establish trade arrangements applicable to certain goods resulting from the processing of agricultural products and to the common system of trade for ovalbumin and lactalbumin with the treaty of lisbon. it is necessary to simplify and update the current legal text and improve its readability, and to provide a clearer and stronger legal basis for the implementing rules. this would ensure that the trade regime for processed agricultural products is in line with the union's obligations such as the reduction or elimination of import duties and export subsidies, as well as the opening and adjustment of tariff quotas resulting from the world trade organisation and bilateral agreements. this seeks to create a solid legal framework for the management of export refunds, reduced import duties, import quotas and the adoption of safeguard measures provided for in the free trade agreements (ftas), and to align existing legislation with current fta practices. the process of simplification, rationalisation and harmonisation of legislation is an excellent opportunity to modernise and increase the transparency of the trading rules in order to promote eu values worldwide, as well as the general modernisation of the trading rules, their increased transparency with the involvement of all relevant stakeholders and, at the same time, alignment with the objectives of the common agricultural policy.
written. - i support the report on trade arrangements applicable to certain goods obtained from the processing of agricultural products. i would also agree with the proposal in this report that the european parliament should retain the standard position on the alignment of legislation with the provisions of the treaty of lisbon and on the common organisation of the market. the new division of responsibilities between parliament, the council and the commission ensures greater efficiency and simplicity in the functioning of trade agreements. finally, i would welcome the proposed amendments to the agriculture and rural development act which call for protection against imports of products that do not comply with eu food safety laws and for an increase in import duties on products that do not comply with the standards in force in the european union.
written. - i support this proposal for a regulation which aims to harmonise the current trade arrangements applicable to certain goods resulting from the processing of agricultural products. this is essential to ensure that the trade regime for processed agricultural products is in line with the union's obligations to reduce or eliminate import duties and export subsidies, as well as to open and adjust tariff quotas, stemming from the world trade organisation and bilateral agreements. the proposal seeks to create a solid legal framework for the management of export refunds, reduced import duties, import quotas and the adoption of safeguard measures provided for in free trade agreements (ftas) and to adapt existing legislation to the current practice of the fta. agriculture is one of the main sectors of the croatian economy. croatia is rich in products obtained from the processing of agricultural products and these are products of high quality and indigenousness. this regulation ensures a greater concreteness of such products, which is of particular importance for croatia as 40%[nbsp] of the population of the republic of croatia lives in rural areas and thus enables development.
written. - i support the proposal for a so-called qualified external protection, which is an external protection that prohibits the import of products that do not comply with the provisions of union law on food safety, environmental standards, animal welfare and social standards, and accordingly i consider the commission's power to delegate acts in the same segment to be justified. i also agree with the finding that the commission should provide full information and documentation to national experts as part of its work on the preparation and implementation of delegated acts. so i supported the motion.
madam president, i supported the marinescu report because i believe that the european investment bank has a very important role to play in providing funds for capital investment in development and integration into the european union. this report focuses on several priority areas linked to the europe 2020 strategy, such as innovation, infrastructure, cohesion, efficiency, youth employment and long-term job creation. i welcome the capital increase of eur 10 billion approved by the board of governors of the european investment bank, which has enabled an additional eur 60 billion for long-term lending over the period 2013 to 2015. croatia became a shareholder in the european investment bank with full membership of the european union and more than eur 3.6 billion has been allocated to projects in croatia, most of which have been or are being implemented. as the bank helps to maintain and enhance competitiveness in the union, i am concerned or i would like to see more transparency, where data on measures and lists of financial intermediaries should be provided to ensure that citizens are sufficiently informed.
madam president, it is important that the european investment bank's resources be used to strengthen the global competitiveness of the european economy and thus achieve its development objectives. the creation of new jobs is of course the priority at the moment and the european investment bank in the europe 2020 strategy should be an instrument for creating infrastructure, for driving growth, innovation and competitiveness. it is important that the european investment bank, as a key instrument of stability, maintains a credit rating of triple aaa in order to maintain access to international capital markets under the best financing conditions. i believe it is essential that the european investment bank, together with the european investment fund, ensure the development of smes, start-ups and the microfinance system. i therefore welcome the allocation of an additional eur 60 billion in credit capacity for the period 2013 to 2015 as it is for the implementation of the europe 2020 priorities such as innovation and skills, the development of smes and cohesion policy.
written. - the european investment bank (eib) plays an important role in the growth of the european economy and helps to maintain and strengthen global competitiveness. i support the eib's 2012 annual report and the implementation of the agreed operational plan to finance some 400 projects in more than 60 countries for a total of eur 52 billion. i welcome the eur 10 billion capital increase approved by the eib board of governors, thus enabling an additional eur 60 billion for long-term lending to projects in the eu for the period 2013 2015. the eib pays particular attention to lending to small and medium-sized enterprises, which form the backbone of the european economy and are the main drivers of european growth, accounting for 80% of private sector employment. i stress that the eib should increase transparency, provide better access to information and reduce red tape to make the allocation of funds even faster and more efficient. i call on the eib to continue to support the eu's long-term priorities related to economic and social cohesion, growth and employment, environmental sustainability, climate action and resource efficiency, through the further development of new financial and non-financial instruments.
written. - i support the adoption of the report on the annual report of the european investment bank for 2012. the european investment bank has been an important factor in the amortisation of the recession, especially for countries and businesses with lower credit ratings. i agree with the position of this report which stresses that it is important to ensure that the european investment bank maintains its aaa credit rating level so that economic growth drivers have access to cheaper capital. with the existing credit rating of the european investment bank and the €10 billion increase in core capital, i believe that the eib, given the positive economic outlook in the eu, could invest in projects with greater potential to create added value. finally, i would like to welcome the significant financial commitment of the eib in croatia to the ongoing project of building and expanding the zagreb airport. the commission notes that the airport services agreement with the airline was signed on 20 june 2013 and that the agreement was signed on 30 june 2013. the eib's investments in croatia demonstrate its focus on nationally relevant projects geared towards long-term economic growth.
written. - i welcome the role of the european investment bank (eib) as set out in the growth and jobs pact and the increased lending by the eib in the areas of infrastructure, resource efficiency and the knowledge economy. i hope that the full potential of the recent eur 10 billion capital increase will be put to good use for new lending linked to growth and jobs in sustainable sectors, especially in small and medium-sized enterprises. however, i regret the fact that a number of member states lack viable projects that could be financed from eib funds. in accordance with this, i invite the eib to review its policy on the use of own resources for activities and to proactively seek out new potential projects and support their development in all member states in order to enable the eib to increase its lending activities. i also stress the importance of preventing tax havens, transfer pricing, tax fraud, tax evasion and aggressive tax avoidance or avoidance planning, and support the establishment of partnerships with transparent and trusted financial intermediaries, which have established links with the local economy in all countries in which they operate.
written. - the 2012 report by mr marinescu on the european investment bank (eib), in addition to the eib's contribution to the european union's external policies, also mentions two important components that are a key prerequisite for a healthy foundation of the european economy as a whole and which i want to strongly support. first of all, i fully agree with the call for the european investment bank to further strengthen investment in smes and to increase the scope of support it has provided to them so far. it is no secret that smes are the backbone of the european union's economy and the main driver of european growth. as the report by mr marinescu explicitly points out, this form of enterprise represents 80%[nbsp] of total private sector employment. it is therefore not surprising that one of the emphases of the report is precisely the need to provide smes with more financial resources and access to capital in general. on the other hand, i particularly support the part of the report which calls for the eib to broaden its scope of action and to use additional instruments to ensure as much youth employment as possible, particularly in member states with particularly high unemployment rates. finally, i also support the call from the committee on economic and monetary affairs to the eib to reduce bureaucratic procedures in order to make the allocation of appropriations as efficient and fast as possible.
written. - i'm glad we're talking about this topic because unfortunately women have not yet achieved that degree of equality with their male counterparts. it is interesting that the eu, which is fighting for gender equality, has not had a female president since the european commission was set up, and the situation will not improve in the next mandate because all candidates are men. the situation in the european parliament is no better. you have never given a woman the opportunity to preside over this parliament, so it is a bit hypocritical to ask others for equality when, until now, the institutions have never been guided by that criterion. women in the business world are not doing any better because they are still underpaid than men, and are especially at risk of being fired when they become pregnant, as the new croatian labor law proposal foresees. statistics show that women are better ceos, politicians, but also employees, so i hope we'll soon give them the place they deserve.
madam president, we have today had a vote on the subject prepared by our colleague inês cristina zuber on equality between women and men in 2012, which this plenary has rejected. i think it is a pity that we have brought such an important and valuable document to the plenary with so many, so many amendments, which clearly points to the conclusion that there was not enough consensus or agreement at committee level and i think the result is in a way expected. since this report was not intended to be a comparative overview of the state of equality between women and men in the member states of the european union, i did not feel it was appropriate to focus on issues in individual member states. these are issues on which we should not have ideological debates but work sincerely, as we have done since 1975, to strengthen women's rights in the european union, and to promote equality between women and men.
written. - i voted against this report. as i said in my speech at the debate on this subject, i believe that the slogan of equality between women and men is trying to push other ideologically coloured things. i'll try to be clear enough by listing some of the parts of the report. paragraph 42 proposes the right to voluntary abortion; paragraph 52 is vague - whether they include all families and same-sex unions, which is unconstitutional in some countries; paragraph 57 goes so far as to invade media freedom; paragraph 58 calls for the european union to intervene in educational policies, which are the sole responsibility of the member states. throughout the whole equality in decision-making part, statistics are manipulated to feminize the problem of the economic crisis as much as possible. the section on violence against women was discussed and parliament's views were expressed in reports devoted exclusively to this subject. the statistics quoted by rapporteur zuber are correct, but the model she proposes in her report as a way of improving those statistics is entirely faulty.
written. - i do not support this report because it completely undermines and inadequately addresses such an important topic as the equality of men and women. i am against any discrimination on the basis of sex and i consider it unacceptable. unfortunately, mrs zuber's report, in the context of the fight for gender equality, introduces ideological positions, above all the relativisation of the family and the right to life. the least written in this report is about women's rights and such an important topic is marginalized which is why i am against the report, and not against equality and women's rights.
written. - gender equality is a fundamental right enshrined in the treaty on european union and the charter of fundamental rights. despite progress in this area, there are still many inequalities between men and women, whether in human rights, careers, employment opportunities and salaries, access to education and health services, participation in the economy or political representation. the eu's gender equality directives have made a significant contribution to the effective promotion of gender equality, but some old member states still either implement these directives incorrectly or have insufficient enforcement controls. in practice, we have a situation where for the salary a man earns in 12 months, a woman earns in only 14 months. i supported this motion for a resolution because it is of the utmost importance that women and men are equally present in all areas of public and private life, that they have equal status, equal opportunities to exercise all rights and equal benefits from the results achieved. it is unacceptable that there are still reservations on the part of certain political groups, mostly ideologically coloured, about the question of gender equality in a developed civilized society, and i regret that this motion for a resolution has not been supported by the necessary majority.
written. - it is unacceptable that women are paid 16% less than men for the same work while the average difference between men's and women's pensions is 39%. in 2012, according to commission figures, 31,6% of men and 40% of women in the eu aged 30-34 had acquired higher education qualifications, while women accounted for 60% of net graduates. although 46% of all doctoral graduates in the member states are women, only 15.5% of higher education institutions are headed by women and only 10% of universities have a female rector. it is particularly worrying that, although women make up 52% of the total population of europe, they represent only one third of self-employed or all those starting businesses in the eu. equal participation of men and women in the labour market could significantly increase the economic potential of the eu, ensuring its fair and inclusive character. i regret that the essential economic elements of this report were not recognized, which pointed to a significant difference between women and men, elements that constitute the relationship of modern society to one of its most important and productive parts women.
written. - i have a negative opinion of the report. the need for further eu progress in tackling gender inequalities and the commitment to eliminate violence against women in its entirety are unavoidable. the rapporteur calls for more attention and progress in equalising income, access to education and health services, decision-making, and political representation between women and men. the data provided by numerous international and eu institutions support the rapporteur's objective. according to eurostat and the croatian statistical office, the average representation of women in decision-making positions of large companies in the eu is 16.6%, while in croatia it is a low 13.3%. in the eu, the average percentage of women in parliaments is 35%, while in croatia it is 25%. despite the fact that in 2012 50% of graduates were women, only 15% of women are employed full-time in european universities and they are still underrepresented in most european countries. a stronger action plan, clearer targets and the promotion of gender equality must be encouraged by member states to reduce inequalities and give women equal opportunities to contribute to economic, social and political stability in their countries.
written. - during my long career as a police officer, i have often encountered discrimination, so i am particularly sensitive to this issue. while i truly believe that women are no less valuable than men and that they should have access to all jobs and be paid equally for their work, i believe that the imposition of certain standards, such as those proposed in large numbers in the report, makes the problem one-sided and one-dimensional because i personally see no reason why a company should not employ 100% women or men, if they are the most qualified for the job. knowledge, ability and diligence must be the main criteria, everything else is secondary. so i think we should invest our efforts in educating and informing the public about the problem of inequality of women, rather than imposing restrictive rules and sanctions that harm our economy. that's why i voted against it.
written. - the european financial supervisory system is of paramount importance, both for the member states and for the european union as a whole, mainly because of the need to create a more stable and secure financial market. the standardised framework of measures contributes significantly to this aim and to the reduction of systemic risk to financial stability, but there is of course room for improvement, for example by involving the human resources of supervisors in the early stages of law-making through the roles of expert advisors, and by better communicating macroeconomic and microprudential oversight, so as to address possible crisis situations and supervisor misunderstandings more quickly and effectively. it is necessary to ensure a level playing field for all financial institutions within the european union and to enable the european supervisory authorities to report to the commission when differences in national legislation impede the functioning of the european market as a whole. the more transparent operation of financial institutions leads directly to a greater trust of every final consumer and investor in the european union and therefore i consider that the granting of greater powers to the three supervisory authorities is necessary for the smooth functioning of all member states as well as for the stability and development of the european market.
written. - i supported this report with recommendations to the commission on the review of the european system of financial supervision (esfs). as the financial crisis has shown that inadequate risk management and ineffective, uneven and fragmented supervision of financial markets have contributed to financial instability and lack of consumer protection in financial services, there is a need to review financial supervision. furthermore, as the european parliament strongly supported the creation of the european supervisory authorities (esas) and gave them more powers of coordination and direct supervision, and as it considers them to be key actors in creating more stable and secure financial markets, and as the union needs stronger and more harmonised supervision at union level, there is a need for new legislation focusing on: strengthening the powers of the chairs of all three esas and allowing for the delegation of additional powers of the board of supervisors to the chair; governance through organisation, decision-making, independence and transparency; regulatory unity and the single market; supervisory cooperation and harmonisation; extended powers; ensuring that the esrb is represented at the meetings of the economic and financial committee. the commission notes that the measures provided for in this decision are in line with the principles of sound financial management and fair competition.
written. - i support the report on the establishment of a union programme to support specific activities in the field of financial reporting and auditing for the period 2014-2020. the funding of specific activities in this area has met expectations in the previous period and i therefore agree with the proposal to continue funding the programme for the period up to 2020. the economic crisis has shown us the importance of financial reporting and auditing, in particular because of the role of financial statements in bankruptcy, merger and acquisition and company liquidation processes. i would point out that the financing of the european financial reporting advisory group (efrag), the international financial reporting standards (ifrs) and the public interest oversight board (piob) should be conditional on compliance with accounting principles and their independence from the influence of other organisations. in conclusion, i would agree with the report's position that a high-quality common financial reporting framework is of great importance for the functioning of the internal market.
written. - i support this motion for a resolution by the european parliament with recommendations to the commission on the review of the european system of financial supervision (esfs). the european system of financial supervision consists of the three european supervisory authorities (esas) and the european systemic risk board (esrb), which were established by the regulations adopted in november 2010. the financial crisis has shown that risk management systems are inadequate and inefficient. such uneven and fragmented supervision of financial markets has contributed to financial instability and is part of the reason why there are shortcomings in the protection of consumers of financial services. the bodies within the european system of financial supervision are key actors in creating more stable and secure financial markets, and i therefore support stronger and better coordinated supervision at union level. at european union level, we must do everything we can to prevent the bad or inadequate financial management that ultimately affects the ordinary eu citizen the most. further adapting the 2010 measures, we will improve the functioning of the esfs through strengthened governance and authority roles and thus better equip financial control mechanisms and systems so that end-users of financial services are better protected.
written. - building on the lessons of the financial crisis and on the recommendations of the de larosière report, the european system of financial supervision (esfs) was established as a decentralised, multi-tier system of micro- and macro-prudential bodies. the supervisory system is currently undergoing major changes towards the introduction of the banking union. accordingly, the european parliament has expressed the need to organise european supervisory authorities (esas) with greater decision-making power and direct supervision, which it considers to be key to building stable financial markets. i hold that the proposal is unsatisfactory and accordingly i have not supported it. the commission is involved in esa's operations, where its involvement is not yet fully transparent, and its role in this area should be linked to the activities of the parliament and the council, without prejudice to the independence of esa. the current funding arrangements for the esa are also inflexible and create an administrative burden.
written. - transparency is key to a democratic political union of citizens in which they can fully participate in the democratic process. the treaty of lisbon establishes a fundamental right of access to documents. the commission should also be able to provide the necessary information to the member states in order to ensure that the union's citizens are informed of the activities of the union. i also believe that a proper balance needs to be struck between transparency and data protection. as a member of the group of the party of european socialists, i believe it is essential that any decision to refuse access to documents must be based on clearly and rigorously defined legal grounds accompanied by a reasonable and specific justification. citizens must be enabled to understand the reason for the denial of access. i would also like to mention the problem of over-classification and partial access to documents. official documents are often too highly classified, and institutions demand that their meetings be closed to the public, without proper explanation. the independent body should be responsible for supervising the classification of documents and requests for meetings closed to the public. finally, i consider that it is necessary to revise regulation (ec) no 1049/2001 as it is a fundamental right of citizens of the union.
written. - the issue of access to documents has been a sensitive topic in parliament's mind for many years. it requires an approach that is in everyone's interest and does not violate anyone's right to privacy. i did not support this report because there is a blurred distinction between transparency itself and the right to privacy. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules on the application of this regulation. in addition, no effort was made to involve a larger number of participants in the debate itself, which further led to a diversity of opinion on a subject that is extremely sensitive and requires more complex consideration in the future. of course, i support transparency, as well as public access to documents, which is important for strengthening democracy, for fighting corruption and for the legitimacy of the political system and the legislation of the union. it is certainly the right of every eu citizen to demand greater transparency within the eu institutions. the right of access to information is the right of the user to seek and obtain information and the obligation of the public authority to provide access to the information requested. the public authorities may restrict access to information if it is classified with a classification grade, if the information is a trade or professional secret or if the information is protected by law.
written. - transparency is key to a democratic political union of citizens in which they can fully participate in the democratic process. i come from a party based on christian democratic principles, and i feel that not enough effort has been made in this direction, and i therefore have a negative opinion of the report in question. transparent administration serves the interests of citizens, the fight against corruption and the legitimacy of the union's political system and legislation. only in this way can we gain the confidence of the citizens and raise their general morale in all relevant proceedings. transparency is essential because it extends justice and is highly acceptable as such. citizens are demanding more transparency. in order to meet the requests, a fast and simple procedure for challenging the refusal of access to documents should be provided for in order to reduce the length and cost of litigation. there are many new and interesting initiatives, enabled by new technologies, that provide insight into the workings of the eu institutions. all eu institutions should appoint a transparency officer. clear division of labour can easily lead to set objectives and ultimately to a satisfactory situation, so i would point out once again that there is a lot of room for improvement.
written. - i wholeheartedly support all the findings that the rapporteur articulates in this report, because i believe that transparency and openness are the foundations on which the legitimacy and trust of citizens in the institutions of the european union rests. not only do i agree, but i consider it a fundamental right of citizens to know how the decision-making process is conducted and how their representatives operate, so that they can be held accountable. i hold the report to be positive in its entirety, and i voted in favour.
madam president, the right to petition is indeed a key tool for citizen participation and democratic control of government. the european parliament's committee on petitions, which monitors the implementation of eu legislation in the member states, received almost 10 000 petitions during this mandate. that number has been steadily increasing in recent years. in 2013 alone, the number of petitions increased by 45[nbsp]% compared to the previous year. it is good that citizens' participation in the decision-making process in the european union is increasing, but this also implies the obligation to reform the petition system in such a way that it remains at the service of citizens, and that is why i voted in favour of this proposal. croatian citizens at the end of last year in the european year of citizens for the first time since the independence of croatia themselves by collecting signatures initiated a citizens' referendum seeking a constitutional definition of marriage. citizens have fought for the right to be heard, despite the opposition of the authorities, and that is the purpose of this resolution.
written. - in 2013, the 'year of the european citizen', 2 885 applications were received, an increase of almost 45% compared to 2012, and in the current parliamentary term, almost 10 000 applications have been registered so far. this number, although modest in comparison with the population of the european union, nevertheless indicates a significant increase in awareness of the right to representation, which provides valuable feedback to legislators and executive bodies. the right of access improves the european parliament's ability to respond to concerns of citizens and residents of the union, while at the same time providing people with an open, democratic and transparent mechanism to obtain an out-of-court remedy for their complaints, in particular when they relate to problems in the implementation of european legislation. it is necessary to increase citizen participation in the eu's decision-making process, with a view to strengthening its legitimacy and accountability. i consider it particularly important that every applicant has the right to receive a reply in his own language or in the language in which he lodged his application. the european parliament is determined to make the nomination process more efficient, transparent and impartial.
written. - last year, 2013, was the year of the citizen, the number of 2 885 representations in 2013 compared to 10 000 representations during the entire seventh legislature is a good indicator, but we still need to invest in making our citizens aware of their membership of the european union. the committee on petitions is specific in that it allows citizens to express their demands directly. mr. walesa has done a good job of detecting a key need, and that is coordination with national, regional and local authorities. i also welcome the clear division of responsibilities for the various interests of citizens, from environmental to financial difficulties. in this respect, i also support the proposal to encourage public debate on specific problems, because only in this way will we bring the european union itself, its institutions and the way they function closer to the citizens and make everything less abstract for european citizens. the lack of information is often the biggest problem for citizens, and this committee has an important role to play in this. the commission has also received a number of complaints from the applicant regarding the lack of transparency in the application of the rules on competition.
in writing. - with over 10,000 petitions in five years, the committee on petitions of the european parliament, chaired by my colleague, erminia mazzoni, has played a fundamental role for all european citizens as an instrument for obtaining justice for their rights violated by individual national institutions. i therefore voted in favour of urgent measures to ensure an efficient and transparent procedure for the examination of petitions, given the importance of this commission, especially for the new five-year legislative period. the web portal for petitions, currently in experimental phase, could become a very useful online platform for better informing citizens about their rights to petition and if it happens in this legislature, it would clearly be a major achievement.
written. - more and more europeans are petitioning the european parliament, and this report calls on the european parliament to take urgent action to ensure that petitions are dealt with efficiently and transparently. many people have no confidence in their national parliaments and institutions. the most common petitions cover issues related to: fundamental rights, disability and disabled persons' rights, citizenship, voting rights and freedom of movement, crisis, environment. in the next few months, members of the committee on petitions will launch the fifth web portal, where citizens will be able to better inform themselves about their rights, and will be able to both fill out and sign online petitions, and that is why i supported this report.
written. - as an alternate member of this committee, i have had the opportunity to participate in its work over the past year, which i am extremely pleased to do, because during this period many important, perhaps even pivotal, things have happened to european democracy in the field of petitions. in 2013, almost 3000 applications were received, and just last month we also witnessed the first successful european citizens' initiative - right to water, but it is certainly only the first in a series. i believe that the right to representation is important not only as a system of democratic control, but also for the involvement of citizens in the democratic process, the extension and strengthening of the spirit of democracy and, ultimately, the strengthening of the european union as a union of free and equal citizens.
written. - in addition to the implementation of the lisbon treaty, the european union introduced a new mechanism of participation in 2009 through the european citizens' initiative. nearly 3,000 petitions were filed last year, and a total of about 10,000 since 2009. i support this report on the outcome of the committee's deliberations during 2013 because it is very likely that in the future more and more europeans will engage through petitions to the european parliament. we therefore need to take measures to ensure that petitions are handled efficiently and transparently. through the new peti web portal to be launched in the coming months, citizens will have the opportunity to complete and sign online petitions. through the use of this tool, we expect to reduce the number of inadmissible petitions and improve the efficiency of the entire system. petitions to the european parliament deal with various topics such as citizenship (simplification of administrative procedures), the impact of the economic crisis, the rights of persons with disabilities, etc. these are all important issues that deserve to be dealt with as quickly as possible and, where possible, to be discussed in plenary sessions. i also support the initiative to use new information and video content for future peti committee meetings which will bring additional savings in the organisation of debates.
written. - i welcome the rapporteur's findings which stress the importance of the right to be represented and the importance of parliamentary bodies being aware of the particular concerns and attitudes of eu citizens, given that the european parliament is the only institution of the union elected by citizens. i agree that the committee of the regions is a very important place for every citizen, because it represents the right of contact and access of every individual citizen of the union to the people they have elected, and i also agree with the finding that it is necessary to strengthen the cooperation of the committee of the regions with the representatives of the national authorities of the member states. however, i share my group's concern with the request to extend the role and activities of the committee on petitions and with the proposal to create detailed rules for the processing of the work of the committee's secretariat, as i consider them unnecessary. that is why i abstained.
in writing. - the report by mrs mcintyre refers to the situation in the horticultural sector in the european union. one of the main limitations of this sector is the small size of agricultural activities. in 2007, over 70% of fruit and vegetable companies had less than five hectares, leading to higher production costs, lower production efficiency and lower overall competitiveness. in the north sea countries, for example, the average size of fruit and vegetable companies is much higher than in the mediterranean countries. joint investment in research into new varieties, production techniques and products that meet consumer demands will enable eu growers to maintain a profitable production base and compete successfully on world markets. the transition from research to practice is of particular importance and is crucial for the eu horticultural sector to maintain an edge over its competitors.
written. - i supported this report because it is important to promote the eu's horticulture sector and enable it to strengthen its competitiveness on the world market, through innovation, research and development, energy efficiency and security, adaptation to climate change and measures to improve market placement. unfair trading practices persist across the eu, weakening horticultural trading companies and their producer organisations and reducing growers' confidence in investing in the future. there is a strong need for all businesses, especially smes, to reduce regulatory burdens and to be encouraged to make better use of the business support and advisory services that the european commission should make more easily available. strengthening the position of growers through increased cooperation, better internal organisation and governance would ensure that growers are in a better position to negotiate with large customers and traders.
written. - horticulture is an extremely important part of agricultural production and strategic thinking about its future is a necessary step for its upgrading. in the republic of croatia, horticulture is one of the areas with a lot of potential of almost one million hectares of state agricultural land, in the last 10 years only a little more than a fifth has been put into operation. however, the new croatian government has launched many projects on horticulture, including a single information system on agricultural land use. unfortunately, the economic reality is that the sector's consumption within the eu has decreased compared to the pre-crisis average, and in croatia we are also facing a decrease in agricultural income and labour input. i am pleased that this strategy has been placed on the agenda of the plenary session and i hope that we will be able to address these negative trends in a timely and effective manner. however, all products must undergo rigorous testing before being placed on the market to detect unexpected side effects in a timely manner. while we all want to strengthen the state of agriculture in the eu, the premature placing of gm products on the market before many years of testing are over, for the sake of short-term profit, can do more harm than good, which is why i refuse to support this report. what is certainly needed now is to emphasise support for less developed areas, innovative solutions to improve access to production, and increased training and exchange of experience among producers.
written. - the european union is the world's second largest producer of fruit and vegetables, but also its second largest importer. in the eu, horticulture accounts for 18% of total agricultural production and only 3% of arable land. according to eurostat, the total investment costs of farmers in the eu increased by an average of 40% between 2000 and 2010, while the prices of agricultural products sold directly from farms increased by an average of less than 25%. in order to improve the overall situation, the emphasis should be on strengthening competitiveness on the world market through innovation, development, energy efficiency and security. efficient action requires strengthening partnerships between governments, industry and research organisations and recognising the importance of a more professional approach to development planning. it should be noted that agribusiness is of particular importance for the creation of new jobs, with a particular emphasis on the seasonal need for labour. the administrative procedure for smes needs to be simplified with the help of the legislative actors. we also need to think about consumer protection, and we're advocating for reducing the use of pesticides. the protection of traditional varieties and crops is also important. however, it is necessary to recognise that at least one third of edible products are discarded because of their appearance, and accordingly, the possibility of a wider range of product quality specifications should be considered.
written. - i support this report because there are many challenges facing the european fruit and wine sector, from adapting to the effects of climate change to ensuring food on a global scale with a lower impact on the environment. agriculture is facing major challenges where, in addition to reducing arable land and increasing the world's population which is already struggling with the impossibility of providing agri-food products for everyone, farmers today are reducing the profitability and costs of farms. horticulture today accounts for 18% of the total value of agricultural production in the eu and uses only 3% of arable land. the problems in the agricultural sector have been further exacerbated by the global economic crisis. in croatia, the agricultural sector underutilizes available resources, there are many small and fragmented land areas where competitive production is almost impossible, and many other factors limiting production efficiency. a particular problem lies in the fact that edible and wholesome food is thrown away and not used for the banal reason of its unfavorable visual appearance. i believe that the commission should consider the possibility of placing on the market a wider range of product quality specifications, while ensuring transparency and the proper functioning of the market.
written. - i commend rapporteur mcintyre on a perfectly balanced report which puts the primary focus on the development of the horticultural industry. i commend the part of the report which points to the need for further innovation and technological development in that sector, given the undeniable importance that that sector has in the daily lives of union citizens. although i personally do not agree with the rapporteur's finding on genetic modification, i believe that the report contains much more positive aspects such as the call to the commission to establish equal conditions of market access, equality of marketing standards of designation of origin, equal rules for all actors on the eu market, etc., all with the aim of preventing distortions of competition. that's why i voted yes.
madam president, i supported this report because i know that the prohibition of torture and other forms of violent behaviour and punishment is already an international norm embodied at the un level, but this problem is still present throughout the world. it is up to us to find new alternative and effective solutions. i certainly supported this motion for a resolution because the eradication of inhumane behaviour is part of the policy of the european union. we are aware that any form of abuse leaves long-term physical and psychological traces on the victims of violence and it is therefore of the utmost importance that the eu takes diplomatic, political and financial measures to prevent torture, especially when it concerns our youngest generations. we also need to make an effort to support rehabilitation centres and psychological support for victims. furthermore, the fight against torture should be based on access to justice, the fight against impunity, the strengthening of civil society and the promotion of education on abuse of any kind. finally, to move towards effective solutions and closer to a common goal, we should also address the causes and patterns of violent behaviour.
written. - the prohibition of torture and other cruel, inhuman and degrading treatment or punishment is a key international norm enshrined in human rights conventions at both the united nations and regional levels. yet, torture still exists in the world. the report warns, among other things, of the need to protect the most vulnerable: women and children. this applies above all to migrants who, despite the risks to their lives and freedom, are returned to their home countries. he also expressed particular concern about the torture of human rights defenders. it is requested that concrete and detailed assistance be provided to them in their negotiations with third countries. it is essential to adopt a victim-centred approach to combating torture. this can be achieved through conditioning, but also through high-level dialogues, strengthening of civil society and incentives.
written. - although there are many examples of diplomatic efforts to combat the large number of instances of torture in the world, unfortunately it is still present. the european union, the council of europe, the united nations, the united states of america and many other international actors are involved in the eradication of torture in the world. i fully support this report because i consider this subject to be extremely important. my country has been the victim of aggression in the recent past, and that period has unfortunately also contributed to the increase in the number of torture in the world. mass rapes and rape camps are just some examples of serb crimes and torture in croatia and bosnia and herzegovina. in bosnia alone, according to some studies, the number of raped women reaches 20,000. in twenty-two years, from 1991 to 31 december 2013, in croatia, war crimes proceedings were initiated against 3[nbsp ]599 persons who were members of the yugoslav people's army or serb paramilitary units. every initiative to eradicate torture in the world is a step forward in solving open cases. in this light, i would also like to highlight un security council resolution 1325 on women, peace and security, which, among other things, states that rape in war must not become obsolete, nor must amnesty be granted to the perpetrators.
written. - the eradication of torture, ill-treatment, inhuman and degrading treatment or punishment is an integral part of the eu's human rights policy and is closely linked to other areas and instruments of eu action. this report focuses on 4 areas requiring additional attention at eu level, namely the torture of children, the fight against torture in the eu's relations with third countries, the eu's action in multilateral fora and international organisations, and the credibility and coherence of eu policy. child trafficking, child soldiers, children in military custody, child labour and cyber violence are serious problems of our time that cannot be ignored. i support making help more accessible to children through rehabilitation and psychological support. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the un convention against torture and the un convention against transnational organized crime (uncrc) and the un convention against torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment (uncrc). i also believe that there is a need to review eu policy towards third countries that support torture and to make aid conditional on the protection of individuals in those countries from torture. stronger cooperation by eu member states is needed to protect victims of torture and to prevent the recurrence of such an inhumane act.
written. - i would like to thank the rapporteur for her contribution and the opportunity to discuss this issue in plenary. torture, unfortunately, affects millions of individuals. in addition to this, it is extremely worrying that women and children, especially girls, are the most vulnerable group to torture and abuse and the most frequent victims. without diminishing the importance of the other issues on the agenda, i believe this issue deserves our special attention and prompt reaction. in accordance with the fundamental values of the european union, torture is one of the most serious violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms and cannot be justified under any circumstances. any form of torture, whether physical or psychological, must be condemned in the strongest terms. but condemnation alone is not enough in this case. what is needed is concrete action to prevent and punish torture. in addition, effective measures should be put in place to provide victims with legal protection and rehabilitation. the implementation of the eu guidelines on torture remains lacking, which is why i support the rapporteur's calls on the european institutions and member states to renew the impetus for their implementation by identifying priorities, best practices and public diplomacy opportunities in consultation with relevant stakeholders. the european union must take the lead in combating all forms of torture, become more active in multilateral fora and international organisations, and make its policies more competitive and consistent.
written. - i supported the report by veronique de keyser because i believe that despite the existence of international and eu documents prohibiting torture as one of the most serious violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms, it is still present throughout the world. in particular, i welcome the inclusion of three measures related to the eradication of torture in the eu action plan on human rights and democracy, as well as the introduction of measurable criteria to assess their success in implementation. i believe that the action plan needs to specify more precise measures to eradicate torture such as more effective information sharing, organising training and joint initiatives with un field offices and other international actors, together with supporting the establishment and strengthening of regional mechanisms to prevent torture. i also welcome the 2012 update of the eu guidelines on torture and support the request that the council, the eu external action service and the commission take steps to ensure that parliament and civil society are involved at least in the evaluation of these guidelines. given that croatia is a party to almost all international human rights instruments, and that in the accession negotiations it revised its legislation in line with eu instruments and guidelines, including those on torture, improvements in this area within the framework of the application of international and european instruments are also relevant for it.
written. - i have a positive opinion of the report in question for primarily moral reasons which as a defendant impose on me precisely such an opinion. torture remains a major problem worldwide despite significant efforts to eliminate such practices. in particular, it is important to draw attention to the universal declaration of human rights and other human rights treaties and instruments adopted at un level which must serve as essential instruments when it comes to new forms of torture targeting vulnerable groups, and in particular children. the principle of zero tolerance for torture is of paramount importance and must be emphasised as one of the most important principles and universally accepted. i support the efforts of the eu, which has strengthened its action to eradicate torture in the action plan for democracy and human rights. in today's world, where there are many deviations and deviant behaviours from the observed problem, additional activities are needed to eliminate all forms of torture, and the situation in third countries itself must be improved with additional attention, with particular attention to the problems of women and children.
written. - i wholeheartedly support the rapporteur's efforts to highlight the fact that torture, inhuman and degrading treatment and punishment, despite a total ban, continue to be present throughout the world. i consider it necessary and justified to call for the eu to constantly protest against torture, inhuman and degrading treatment and punishment in its dialogues. that is why i have voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - the european union is the main trading partner of saudi arabia, accounting for 15% of total trade, making it the union's 11th largest trading partner. the european parliament, by its vote today, recognises the interdependence between the eu and saudi arabia in terms of regional stability, relations with the islamic world, the israeli-palestinian peace process, the war in syria, relations with iran, the fight against terrorism, the stability of financial and oil markets. the european parliament also called for respect for human rights and women's rights in particular and for a greater presence of the european institutions in the area to strengthen relations with saudi arabia.
written. - the kingdom of saudi arabia (ksa) has political, economic and religious influence in the middle east and the islamic world. not only is it the world's leading oil producer, but it is also a founding and leading member of the gulf cooperation council (gcc) and the g-20. the ksa is an important partner for the eu, as the union is saudi arabia's main trading partner with 15[nbsp ]% of world trade, and the ksa is the 11th largest trading partner of the eu. i support this report because it highlights the importance of enhancing eu-sad cooperation in the areas of regional stability, relations with the islamic world, political transitions in the arab spring countries, the israeli-palestinian peace process, the war in syria, improving relations with iran, the fight against terrorism, the stability of the global oil market and financial markets, and global governance issues. in this report, i support the need to strengthen the saa's commitment to respect human rights and call on the government of the saa to fulfil its obligations under several human rights instruments, including the arab charter on human rights, the convention on the rights of the child, the convention against torture and the convention on the elimination of all forms of discrimination against women. i also support in this report the encouragement of the ksa authorities to ensure the complete eradication of torture from the saudi judicial and prison systems.
written. - i welcome and support the first report on saudi arabia in the european parliament. despite the strict counter-terrorism measures that i welcome, i am concerned about the high level of human rights violations on saudi territory. it is worrying that the death penalty is being carried out for a number of crimes, carrying out public executions and stoning women. i am generally opposed to the unequal treatment and discrimination against women in saudi arabia and i call for the protection not only of vulnerable groups including women, children and religious minorities, but for the protection of all citizens from torture and abuse. i also agree with the need to establish a peaceful and secure process of evolution and political reform in the country with the aim of achieving long-term peace, stability and development in the region. i welcome the ratification of the treaties and the acceptance of the recommendations on human rights at un level, but i call for their full implementation and for the protection of citizens and respect for the rights of all groups, as well as for dialogue with the eu on this issue.
written. - i supported the report by commissioner gomes on saudi arabia, its relations with the eu and its role in the middle east and north africa. the importance of the eu-ksa relationship lies in the fight against terrorism and violent extremism and in the agreement to contribute to the establishment of a united nations counter-terrorism centre. furthermore, i believe it is important to stress the importance of respecting the fundamental rights of all religious minorities and i support the decision that the responsible authorities take steps to lift the restriction of women's rights. as the eu accounts for 15%[nbsp] of saudi arabia's total trade and the kingdom is the eu's 11th largest trading partner, it is necessary to ensure respect for the eu principle in order to enhance further cooperation between the two actors. i consider the ksa (kingdom of saudi arabia) to be important for the eu in terms of regional stability, relations with the islamic world, stability of global financial and oil markets, the geopolitical position of the kingdom as a focal point for security challenges with regional and global implications, and in this regard i have supported the european union's interest in further establishing a peaceful and orderly process of evolution and political reform in saudi arabia as a key enabler of the long-term peace, stability and development of the region.
written. - i have a positive opinion of the report. the kingdom of saudi arabia and the european union share common challenges at global level, notably migration and international terrorism. the latter is a particularly important issue, as is violent extremism, and it needs to be dealt with with particular caution. the kas is working on regional stability, the fight against terrorism, the stability of global energy and financial markets, but there is still room for raising the general level of awareness of human rights. the government should respect its obligations under several human rights instruments - by respecting the fundamental rights of all religious minorities, as well as any restrictions that exist on women's human rights. removing barriers to achieving gender equality ranked first in countries where laws limit women's economic potential, as the world bank report women, business and the law in 2014 removing barriers to improving gender equality ranked first in countries where laws limit women's economic potential. there are still many forms of discrimination in kas, and i am particularly sensitive to those forms that affect women against whom additional activities relevant to the improvement of the current situation must be carried out.
written. - the title of the report by the rapporteur implies that saudi arabia is the leading power in the middle east and north africa and that it is an extremely important partner and ally of the european union in the region. as the rapporteur has repeatedly placed the greatest emphasis on human rights violations, i welcome the fact that my cor colleagues in the foreign affairs committee, in addition to the need for reform in terms of improving human rights, have also stressed the need for long-term economic links between the union and saudi arabia, reflected in trade, investment, education, culture, and the importance of cooperation with the saudi authorities, in order to successfully prevent terrorism. i think the report is positive, and i therefore voted in favour.
madam chairman, the protection of personal data is a major challenge today. citizens are the target of aggressive marketing campaigns targeted at them precisely on the basis of their personal data, which are used by marketing agencies beyond their wishes and their consent. this kind of data leakage is not typical of government agencies and institutions, but there is another fear among the public that we directly associate with the state. a large part of our citizens are wary of increased surveillance and suspicion of the unauthorized and unfounded use of the repressive apparatus and the secret services to limit their civil rights. however, i fear that such a proposal for a directive would make the work of the police and intelligence services considerably more difficult. the prohibition on the processing of personal data relating to ethnic and racial origin and religious affiliation will constitute a major constraint in the investigation and prosecution of war crimes and terrorist attacks, given that these elements in some cases constitute the main motive for such crimes.
mr president, we are having this debate while there are still some scandals that have been proven to have violated the right to privacy, as one of the fundamental rights of citizens of the union. it has been almost 20 years since the first data protection regulation was adopted. legislation needs to keep pace with the times and embrace the important technological developments of recent years, such as the development of social networks and the storage of data on external servers. i support proposals that the regulation will in future affect all entities in the european union, but also organisations outside the union that use citizens' personal data. member states should be encouraged to coordinate their legislative procedures in order to avoid any inconsistencies. i would particularly welcome the attention paid to the protection of children. i also stress the need to give users control over the amount of information they give out. it is necessary to prevent information seekers from requesting information which is not necessary for the performance of a service, in particular if they refuse to provide services without providing such information.
mr vice-president, i support the report by representative claude moraes on the surveillance programme of the national security agency of the united states of america and i believe that our colleagues on the libe committee have shown great activism and a very detailed study of this phenomenon that we have been facing since june last year following the information about the mass indiscriminate surveillance that i, of course, and we all believe against, especially when it happens between partners within the north atlantic alliance, when it happens between the us and the eu who share a whole set of principles, treaties and so i would say joint efforts to regulate global relations on a level that is both constructive but also focused on the fight against terrorism. i also believe that we must take into account that for us in the european union the right to privacy and data protection is one of our fundamental values and that it is precisely the guidelines we have seen in this report, of which there are several, in particular on the european digital habeas corpus, that should be the guiding thread in future activities and i am particularly pleased that we have discussed a little earlier the data protection package, that i believe we must continue negotiating the eu-us umbrella agreement, and most importantly, we must develop a european strategy for the independence of our information technologies, in particular the internet. the fact that virtually all search engines are american is enough to suggest that the european union must make a major step forward in this regard.
mr. president, it's hard to talk about transatlantic partnership and friendship when one side is watching the other. it is also difficult to talk about transatlantic dialogue when one side knows in advance what the other will say. the fight against terrorism must not and cannot be used as an excuse for the violation of human rights and freedoms, nor for economic espionage. even if individual member states have not been able to individually choose the status of equal partners in their relations with the united states, i am sure that the european union can and will do so. i believe that the relationship between the european union and the united states needs to be put on some new foundations. i can't imagine what the reaction would be in the united states if, say, some surveillance service of the european union were found to be monitoring and eavesdropping on barack obama, as they were found to be monitoring and eavesdropping on angela merkel.
madam president, first of all i would like to say that i support the report by mr iacolina, as i do this initiative by the european commission. i supported it as soon as it was made public. the european union has its own budget and i think it is natural that it also has a european public prosecutor's office to protect the financial interests of the european union, the money of european taxpayers and to extend the construction of the european criminal justice area. of course, in the report we ask that this european public prosecutor's office be independent, independent of national governments, of the eu institutions, of any form of political influence. we also ask that the principle of subsidiarity be respected, but i would also say that this principle of subsidiarity does not have to be an alibi to hide certain practices of political influence on public prosecutors which unfortunately exist in some member states. and that is why i support this report and i call on member states to support this initiative as well.
madam president, while i strongly advocate the strengthening of cooperation between the judicial authorities of the member states, particularly in the enforcement of the european arrest and investigation warrant, i believe that the initiative to initiate judicial proceedings must remain with the member states, or national prosecutors. instead of setting up another body at union level, i believe that the european institutions should provide all possible support in strengthening the efficiency of national judicial authorities and their high-quality networking. the initiation of a two-tiered judicial procedure is also very risky because it will easily create confusion and thus harm the efficiency of the whole system. the european public prosecutor's office is a public body, which is not a public authority, but a public body, which is a public authority.
mr president, i support the implementation of article 86 of the lisbon treaty, namely the creation of the office of the public prosecutor. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information it receives. i also support the idea of uniting, of establishing better coordination between olaf, europol and this newly created public prosecutor's office, because the european budget really needs to be protected. we share the common goal of fighting fraud, and fraud as we know it undermines the trust of our citizens in the european union. and that's why we have to follow the provisions of the charter of fundamental human rights and take care that those who are suspected have the right to a fair trial. in any case, we need more money for culture, more money for education and more money for sport, and this is how we will surely achieve that.
madam president, first of all i would like to congratulate rapporteur rija oomen-ruijten on her balanced report. turkey is a country of great importance to the european union, and in particular to member states which, like croatia, because of its position and role in building a new architecture of peace in south-east europe, wish to count on a positive contribution from turkey to the achievement of the european union's strategic objectives in that part of the continent. turkey demonstrated such a capability in the 1990s when it worked closely with the west to stabilize the ceasefire in bosnia and herzegovina. and today turkish diplomacy emphasizes its interest in affirming peace in that region. however, statements from the highest levels of turkish politics are often heard going in the opposite direction, alluding more to the creation of some turkish sphere of interest in the territory of the former ottoman empire. i am referring here to the statements of prime minister diyarbakir
mr president, turkey is a special partner of the european union and that is why i believe that the negotiations, however long they may have taken, must continue. the current process framework has a firmly defined framework, gives guidance and leaves no room for different interpretations. as such, it is correct, since all candidate countries are given the same preconditions. i stress the importance of chapters 23 and 24 as the backbone of the entire process. nine years since the opening of the negotiations we have a poor result which is a loss for both turkey and the european union. i'm advocating for increased activity in areas of mutual interest. especially in economics, science, education, energy, transportation, environmental protection, security issues. turkey is running out of compliments and help because it's taking in over half a million syrian refugees. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the eu-turkey association agreement and the additional protocol. i hope that intensifying the dialogue on visa-free regime will nonetheless contribute to bringing the two partners closer together.
madam president, i think that the debate on turkey's place in the european union will continue for some time, but despite the country's hazy european prospects, it must be said that the eu and turkey are indeed oriented towards each other. turkey is a reliable ally on our external borders, a valuable nato ally, and millions of europeans of turkish origin share with us the benefits and the drawbacks of the european union. but i'm interested in something else. the eu-turkey relationship carries with it certain responsibilities for both parties. i'll just point out one, and that's the problem of drug trafficking, specifically heroin from afghanistan. croatia is on the so-called 'balkan route' of drug trafficking, the main vein of which is turkey. although turkey seizes large quantities of drugs every year, it is clearly not enough, so i make it a priority to invest additional efforts to neutralize this route and thus make a great leap forward in the fight against drugs.
mr president, the commission's efforts to ensure a safe and high-quality transport system in europe are certainly worth supporting. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on aviation security and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on aviation security and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on aviation security and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on aviation security and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on aviation security and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on aviation security and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on aviation security and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on aviation security and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on aviation security. the commission notes that the airport services agreement with ryanair was signed on 20 june 2010 and that the agreement with ryanair was signed on 1 july 2010. but to do so, a balanced proposal must be found. i believe that this proposal should be thoroughly reviewed, especially in view of the potential problems of implementation. the profession and the member states have expressed considerable criticism. the commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market if it is granted through state resources and does not adversely affect trading conditions to an extent contrary to the common interest. the commission notes that the commission has not yet adopted a decision on the application of the new rules to the new rules. the commission has also taken into account the fact that the airport infrastructure is not in a position to meet the needs of the region. i think we're gonna need to think about that in this case.
mr president, what i wanted to say at the outset was to congratulate the rapporteur on a very balanced report. as mentioned earlier, the development of the digital economy has really changed the way tourism is done and changed the framework of this market. of course, then it is extremely important to change both the rules of the game and consumer protection in this sector. this is extremely important for countries like croatia, which is a tourist destination. in croatia, tourism still accounts for about 15% of our gdp. this directive, which will provide clear rules of the game in relation to the traveller-tour operator, clearly defines the consequences in terms of unilateral cancellation of the package and the increase in the price of the arrangement, and will certainly bring new clarity. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules.
on behalf of the gue/ngl club. mr. president, the crisis in ukraine was triggered by justified protests against the ruthless dictator and his penchant for eastern dictators. on the other hand, the european union's blunt words, largely empty promises, have contributed to the rise in temperatures. a few months ago i said in this parliament that every rude and empty word costs. it costs money, but not just money. the bill is coming in now. today is the time to be very clear. missed messages and messages that we do not stand firmly behind can only contribute to further escalation of crisis and conflict. the final bill will be paid, first of all to the citizens of ukraine, but also to all of us. a few things need to be simplified and clarified to the end: the european union talks, as we heard today, about severe sanctions, and gentle restrictions on crossborder cooperation are being implemented. the member states should also be given a clear position, as they are the ones who will implement any sanctions. how far will these sanctions go? is there a calculation and a firm will to implement the sanctions to the end? well, whatever it takes. the second issue to be clarified concerns the european perspective of ukraine and its territorial integrity. we're very vocal about it, and that's how we should be. the citizens of ukraine, all without exception, should have the opportunity to have a say in the future of their country. on the other hand, russia has its bases in ukraine, primarily in crimea. no one in their right mind thinks russia will ever peacefully withdraw from crimea. is it possible that a situation where european union member states have russian bases on their soil? russia is no longer a communist country, nor is it a democratic country (at least not in the way we see democracy), but it is there. and perhaps the answer to this question is one of the solutions to the crisis.
mr. president, one of the important roles of this debate is to expose the lies of the propaganda coming from the kremlin. and it is a lie that the russian invasion of crimea was to protect minorities. it is true that it was the manipulation of the minority as an alibi for aggression, just as in the 90s slobodan milosevic used the minority as an alibi for aggression against croatia, bosnia and herzegovina and kosovo. and yes, the lie is currently being used as part of the propaganda from the kremlin, that kosovo is some precedent for a referendum in crimea. it's not a date. and the international court of justice in the hague has confirmed that kosovo's independence is not illegal, because kosovo had elements of the federal component of the former yugoslav federation and as such, of course, when the federation broke up it became an independent state. so we have to say what things are like here. that the referendum on sunday will be illegal, that the russian invasion is actually illegal, that it is actually an aggression against ukraine and the territorial integrity of ukraine.
mr president, the developments in ukraine are causing croats to have difficult memories, because they are too similar to the conflict that resulted from the break-up of the former yugoslavia. so-called defense forces occupy institutions in territory controlled by one ethnic group, while calling ukrainians fascists and ultra-nationalists. all this has been seen in croatia for a long time and the croatian people have been muddied by the same pattern. the similarities are striking, but we still have time to tell the difference. the conflict in croatia would have been resolved very quickly if the intervention of the yugoslav people's army had not been allowed and if yugoslavia had been made to understand clearly that the sovereignty and territorial integrity of croatia and slovenia, and somewhat later of bosnia and herzegovina, were inviolable. now we have the opportunity to send such a message to russia. we must help ukraine to strengthen its internal capacity so that it can deal with constitutional and political crises of this kind in the future on its own. we will only be able to do that if we send a clear and loud message to moscow (the president took the floor from the speaker.)
written. i think we've gotten answers to a frequently asked question about how the post-soviet transition will go, not just in russia, but in its geopolitical environment. but we also get answers to questions about how effective today is the global security system established in san francisco in 1944 (un) and adapted in helsinki in 1975 (oess). this system was primarily designed to prevent conflict between states, not within states. if they don't respond in an adequate way, the us and the eu risk being overwhelmed by events beyond their control, because one of the lessons that has emerged from the three-month crisis is that putin wants ukraine more than the west wants it. putin knows that ukraine's entry into the eu would lead to a strategic retreat of such a russia into the depths of asia. first, he warned ukrainians not to be fooled by western promises of faster eu accession, as they would only have the status of "permanent candidate" like turkey. the eu must not reject the european aspirations of the ukrainian people, when the ukrainian people have already rejected these assurances.
written. - the european union recognises the contemporary geopolitical challenges, and this is important for maintaining the security and stability of its member states. i welcome the democratization of pakistan and the work of the pakistani authorities in fighting terrorism, but also in preventing the trafficking of arms and drugs. i am pleased to see that economic cooperation is growing stronger, as confirmed by pakistan's inclusion in the eu's general trade preferences scheme. the rapprochement of china and pakistan ensures a better future and greater stability in south asia. i recognize the problem of child labor, and the 2012 unesco data on nearly 2.5 million children between the ages of 10 and 14 in forced labor - it confirms that. i call for us to work on policies that will completely eradicate child labor in pakistan and enable pakistani children to participate in education to reduce the illiteracy rate of about 55% in that country. i believe that achieving these objectives is one of the strategic interests of the european union's foreign policy. i support this report because it allows for even better cooperation between the european union and pakistan.
written. - only strong political and socio-economic reforms can contribute to building sustainable democratic institutions and strengthening public institutions and legislation in pakistan. i support this report and its call for pakistan to legally ban the export of all nuclear materials and to sign and ratify the non-proliferation treaty (npt) as a sign of its strong commitment to peaceful regional coexistence and to contributing to regional security. i also support pakistan's continued efforts to combat terrorism and encourage the authorities to take further steps to further restrict the recruitment and training of terrorists in pakistan. pakistan's relations with china are strengthening geopolitical stability in southeast asia, and strong progress in dialogue with india is helping to avoid incidents in kashmir. the eu-pakistan bilateral relations will continue to seek to improve human rights, namely in the eradication of slave labour and human trafficking, the fight against gender-based violence, the promotion of freedom of speech and independent media, the abolition of the death penalty, and the development of a reliable legal and judicial system at all levels. i stress the importance of the strategic dialogue and the five-year plan of cooperation, which are aimed at strengthening cooperation in the fields of political cooperation, trade, security, defence and human rights.
written. - i welcome the democratic progress of pakistan, as well as the decision to deepen and extend bilateral relations with the european union. given the many challenges facing pakistan, i believe that there is a need to strengthen democracy and civil governance in pakistan and that serious measures are needed to build a sustainable democracy and social justice. pakistan has a significant role to play in promoting regional stability and is an increasingly important partner of the eu in the fight against terrorism, nuclear proliferation, human and drug trafficking and organised crime. any form of violence must be condemned and i believe it is necessary to strengthen measures to combat and combat abuse. i also support this report and call for progress in all areas, especially those related to human rights and education.
written. - i supported the report by mr boris zale because i believe that pakistan's role in the region and the eu-pakistan relationship have an important and growing impact on eu interests given the country's pivotal position at the heart of the volatile environment in which it finds itself, among other things, also the security of european citizens is in question. in this context, i welcome the consolidation of democracy and civil governance in pakistan, which we have seen progress in since the elections in march 2013, and i welcome the decisions of the government of pakistan aimed at combating terrorism, arms proliferation, drug trafficking and other international threats. however, at the same time, i believe that only deep and demanding reforms of pakistan's political and socio-economic order (2.5% of the population owns over 40% of the land) can lead to a sustainable democracy and a pluralistic society. i support the recent decision by the eu and pakistan to deepen and expand bilateral ties under the five-year engagement plan launched in february 2012 and the holding of a strategic dialogue in june 2012. this contributes to maintaining relations of mutual interest and encourages further political and security cooperation in a number of areas.
written. - i believe that we need to contribute to the improvement of relations between the eu and pakistan by constantly developing political dialogue. i welcome the adoption of the five-year engagement plan and the start of the eu-pakistan strategic dialogue. i would note that the eu is a major export partner of pakistani goods (22,6% in 2012). the eu's trade support to pakistan should therefore help to promote diversification and development of production and processing modes, support regional integration and technology transfers, and facilitate the establishment or development of domestic productivity capacities as well as reduce income inequality.
written. - eu-pakistan relations have an important and growing impact on eu interests, given the country's pivotal position at the centre of a volatile environment, its crucial importance for security and development in central and south asia, and its key role in combating terrorism, arms proliferation, drug trafficking and other transnational threats affecting the security and well-being of european citizens. pakistan's constructive contribution is crucial to achieving reconciliation, peace and political stability in its neighbourhood, in particular in afghanistan. although i support the recent expansion of bilateral relations between the eu and pakistan through the five-year engagement plan launched in february 2012 and the first eu-pakistan strategic dialogue held in june 2012, i voted against the report because it is critical of the use of us drone strikes against suspected terrorist targets in pakistan.
written. - i support this report. with the withdrawal of nato military forces from afghanistan at the end of 2014, pakistan's role in maintaining political stability and security in afghanistan and the region will become even more important. but beyond directly combating the sources of terrorism and removing the consequences, i believe that the eu should be more involved in social issues. it is worrying that in pakistan, two-thirds of pakistani women and half of pakistani men are illiterate, and that pakistan ranks 134th out of 135 countries in the world economic forum's report on the "gender gap". an uneducated and illiterate population is much easier to manipulate, and this fact is exploited by both terrorist groups and organizations to spread extremist ideas and recruit new people, and by corrupt political elites.
in writing. - the problem of ballistic missile defence (bmd), which has been raised in the past, is again relevant because of the multiplication of threats arising from the proliferation of nuclear weapons and other weapons of mass destruction, as well as ballistic missiles, which nato and its european allies must be able to respond to effectively. in this context, i voted in favour of the report to support the nato ballistic missile defence project and urge the eu to contribute to it. the idea of linking nato's wmd to the european union's common security and defence policy (csdp) is also promoted.
- anti-ballistic defence has become a hot topic in recent years due to the growing threat associated with the proliferation of nuclear weapons, ballistic missiles and other weapons of mass destruction. nato and eu member states need to cooperate more closely in this area as they have confirmed their intention to develop a common security and defence policy through the partnership. the efforts of nato in developing ballistic missile defence are of paramount importance for the full coverage and protection of all eu member states, avoiding situations where their security differs in the case of eu and non-nato member states. given that several countries have shown their ambition to develop missile technology and various chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear defence capabilities, there is a need to strengthen the strategic partnership between the eu and nato. i support this report because of the need to launch a pooling and sharing of knowledge systems initiative, because joint research and development brings multiple benefits to all parties.
written. - in recent years we have faced an increase in threats associated with the proliferation of nuclear weapons, other forms of weapons of mass destruction and ballistic missiles. logically, european territory could also be at risk from potential attacks, and nato and its european allies should be able to respond. i supported this motion for a resolution because i believe that the development of defence would have positive implications for the security and protection of europe and its civil society as a whole, but we must certainly bear in mind and consider the possible consequences of the development and application of anti-ballistic technologies. when we talk about russia and its anti-tubalist system, which was a response to the american system being placed on european soil, it is important that the nato anti-tubalist system plan has no offensive purpose and is not aimed at creating tension between europe and russia. communication and the creation of cooperation and mutual trust are also of paramount importance, both between russia and europe and between member states. i have promoted this understanding before as a member of the nato parliamentary assembly from the ranks of the croatian parliament and now as a member of the european parliament.
written. - i support this report. defence against ballistic missile attacks is an important part of the ground defence of both the member state and the european union as a whole. i therefore agree that issues relating to anti-ballistic shields should be included in the security strategies of the european union. it is important to emphasize that this system is not directed against any country or group, but only serves to defend against potential attacks from any direction. it also leaves open the invitation to neighbouring countries to build a common anti-tubalist system that would be built on the foundations of reciprocity and transparency.
written. - i support the report by mr terh on missile defence for europe as the common security and defence policy will be developed in complementarity with nato within the framework of the strategic partnership established between the eu and nato as confirmed by the european council on 19 december 2013. the eu has also committed to the development of a comprehensive and effective system of counter-terrorism and counter-terrorism-related assistance to the countries of the region, including through the development of a comprehensive and effective system of counter-terrorism and counter-terrorism-related assistance to the countries of the region. furthermore, although we have heard some criticism (from the green party) about the excessive financial resources needed to carry out this project, i believe that when it comes to the security of eu citizens, we should not compromise with the development of missile technology by non-state actors.
written. nato has been the bedrock of european security for decades, and there has never been a more effective defense organization in history. however, the proliferation of nuclear weapons is destabilising internationally and regionally and i believe that nato and its european allies must be able to respond effectively. nato must evolve to meet the threats of the 21st century, such as nuclear terrorism, weapons of mass destruction and the proliferation of ballistic missiles. i support this resolution because i believe that the disputed missile defence will provide full coverage and protection for all eu member states. the commission will also continue to monitor the implementation of the union's commitments in the area of security and defence. the commission should also be able to provide the necessary financial support to the member states in order to ensure that the union's defence budget is adequately funded. also, nato's anti-tubalist defense plan is in no way directed against russia. i support the fact that effective cooperation with russia could bring benefits to both systems, but that cooperation must be based on full transparency and reciprocity.
written. - i support initiatives aimed at guaranteeing a higher level of security for the citizens of the european union, particularly in the context of the development of missile technology and the various chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear defence capabilities within the range of which european territory could be found. however, the report does not sufficiently take into account the huge financial burden of such investment in anti-ballistic technology, especially in the context of the economic crisis and fiscal consolidation in a significant number of member states. i also believe that the definition of defence policy guidelines should remain the responsibility of the member states. that is why i voted against this motion for a resolution.
in writing. - the european union is the world's largest importer of fishery products and thailand is the world's largest producer of canned tuna, accounting for 46% of world production. i therefore believe it is important to continue with agreements of this kind, while always keeping in mind the importance of protecting our production and also aiming to ensure adequate safety standards for our consumers.
written. - i supported the report on the current situation and future prospects of the european fisheries sector under the eu-thailand free trade agreement which seeks to regulate trade relations between the european union and thailand. the reduction of the customs duty on canned tuna and tuna products would have consequences for eu regions that are highly dependent on fisheries, as the eu tuna industry is the second largest producer of canned tuna in the world and its long tradition of work is crucial in terms of value added and job creation within the eu. the experience of trade with third countries has also shown certain shortcomings in the three aspects of sustainable fisheries development: the social, economic and environmental aspects. i support the requests made by the rapporteur that fishery products such as canned tuna imported from thailand be treated as sensitive products and remain subject to the current customs duty and exempt from the tariff reductions.
written. - i support the report on the current situation and future prospects of the european fisheries sector under the eu-thailand free trade agreement. i believe that the current situation in the european fisheries sector does not allow for the liberalisation of eu trade relations with thailand, and therefore i agree with the proposal that processed fish and shellfish products, as well as canned fish, and in particular tuna, should be kept at the current level of import duties. the eu has a significant economic and social dimension to tuna production and processing, and european tuna producers are already under pressure to reduce their catch quotas. i believe that the eu should encourage the processing sector of the eu fisheries, which actually contributes the most to the added value of canned tuna products, using tuna from its own production and reducing the demand for foreign processed tuna products. finally, i would add that, when it comes to thailand, we must take particular account of the poor social and working conditions and the lack of respect for human rights in the thai fishing industry when taking such an important decision, and that by adopting this motion for a resolution we are not supporting our trading partner in its approach to the workforce in the fishing sector.
written. - at a time when the european fisheries sector is facing a number of challenges: rising fuel prices, a shortage of manpower and restrictive quotas, i find this proposal commendable. the free trade agreement is of great benefit to the eu economy and supports the regional integration of asean countries. it also points to the importance of sustainable development, corporate social responsibility, respect for human rights, environmental protection, the fight against undeclared and irregular fishing, and compliance with sanitary and phytosanitary standards. the republic of croatia has a long tradition of fishing and shellfish farming dating back to the time of the dubrovnik republic, which was the first, as early as 1434, to adopt regulations on the way fish were caught and the way salted fish and shellfish were produced and traded. fish processing is also one of the oldest industrial activities on the eastern adriatic coast. that is why i welcome this proposal, which ensures both economic benefits and sustainable growth.
written. - the european fisheries and processing industries are vital to the food supply of european citizens and are the basis for the maintenance of coastal areas that depend heavily on these activities. the survival of this sector will be threatened if the eu liberalises trade with developing countries that want to export their products to the key community market, especially if they are offered zero duty rates. in recent months, the european union has rejected numerous consignments of canned tuna imported from thailand due to insufficient heat treatment, a key process for neutralising micro-organisms that would otherwise pose a risk to human health. i believe that any decision regarding increased access to canned and processed thai tuna should only be taken after a rigorous assessment of the impact on the processing industry and the marketing of seafood products in the eu and in close cooperation with industry.
written. - the rapid development and changes affecting the lifestyle of the entire population are also reflected in the development of gastronomy, which is increasingly responsible for the development of agro-tourism and rural tourism. interestingly, in developed lands, problems such as obesity, anorexia, cardiovascular disease, and stomach problems are caused by the use of various drugs, alcohol, and lack of exercise, but the main problem is that of poor diet. it is necessary to raise the awareness of the population and inform and educate them about the consumption of healthy food, not only through classical theoretical learning but also through the introduction of workshops where there is the possibility of tasting food. this would also increase the interest in gastronomy, which, together with cooking, is an important form of both cultural and artistic expression and has recently become a key component of the tourist experience. therefore, in the 21st century, it is necessary to introduce food and gastronomy education in educational institutions as a mandatory and essential part of the educational system of all european countries. i agree with the general aim of the report on the european parliament resolution on the european gastronomic heritage based on cultural and educational aspects. i believe that education, both of the young and the old, would help to reduce the problem of malnutrition in all european countries.
written. - the main objective of this resolution is to promote european gastronomy through the education of children and young people. childhood is a key period for the development of healthy habits and the acquisition of knowledge necessary for a healthy life, and school is one of the places where effective activities can be carried out to shape the long-term healthy behaviour of future generations. the report calls on member states to include in the educational and school curriculum, from the earliest childhood, knowledge and sensory experience of food, healthy eating and eating habits, including historical, geographical and cultural, as well as experiential aspects. this will contribute to improving the health and well-being of the population, the quality of food and the preservation of the environment. in line with the world health organization's recommendations on the fight against obesity and malnutrition, i support this report. in conclusion, i must express my satisfaction that the text mentions the inclusion of the croatian medical tradition in the intangible heritage of unesco.
written. - gastronomy is an important part of the culture of europe as a whole, but also of its member states. the diversity that we can find not only between member states but also between regions within member states themselves speaks to the great wealth of intangible heritage. i would like to draw particular attention to the educational aspect of this report, which concerns the promotion of the local gastronomic traditions of the member states. it is important that young people be made aware of healthy eating, how it affects their lives, and how it reduces the chances of developing various diseases such as diabetes or gastritis. this aspect also has a sociological dimension and contributes to the building of awareness of cultural identity. one of the problems faced by many member states, including croatia, is the protection of indigenous food products. it's hard to talk about proper education about gastronomic culture if you have products that are not recognized as indigenous products of a country or region. today, the process is very expensive and bureaucratically complicated, and in the event of a positive outcome and certification, the production of such products becomes subject to stricter rules and controls. i therefore welcome this report and the concern for the gastronomic heritage itself, because only systematic monitoring and adaptation can bring about positive changes in this area.
written. - i supported the report on the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the cultural and educational aspects of europe's gastronomic heritage. in recent years, proper nutrition has become very important because of the growing problems of obesity, cardiovascular disease, diabetes, and others. member states should take concrete measures to prevent the promotion of unhealthy food in schools, institutions and encourage the promotion of healthy, home-grown, local food. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, in particular through the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) for the area of the internal market. by joining the european union, croatia certainly has something to offer on the common market and should promote its gastronomic offer more, which will contribute to the expansion of the tourist offer, which gives the opportunity to create new jobs and economic growth.
written. - diet is extremely important in modern society; it determines our quality of life and its duration. it is shocking to see how food is now the cause of such diseases as anorexia, bulimia, obesity, diabetes, cancer, and many others. recognising the seriousness of these diseases and the need to prevent them, i supported this report. i believe that education and the inculcation of healthy habits from an early age is the most important instrument in the fight against malnutrition. i would emphasize schools as a place to learn theoretical and practical knowledge about health, nutrition and gastronomy. it is important that the historical, geographical and cultural aspects of food are also included in the school's plan and curriculum. we are witnessing that gastronomy is a key pillar of tourism and a rich socio-cultural heritage that should be passed on to future generations. i am particularly proud of croatian medical practice and the mediterranean diet, which are included in the unesco list of intangible cultural heritage of humanity, and are an excellent and representative combination of natural, healthy food, local cultural customs, tourism and economic development.
written. - the report aims to highlight the importance of educating citizens in the field of gastronomy. i support a global initiative for health in schools and with it, education about nutrition, nutrition and gastronomy. i agree that there should be a ban on the promotion of poor nutrition in schools. it can have serious consequences and it is necessary to promote healthy eating and eating habits from an early age. however, in addition to their primary function, it is important to note that gastronomy and cooking have become important forms of cultural and artistic expression. gastronomy is also part of our identity and cultural heritage. the culinary traditions of the different regions and the traditional local cuisine of the member states are the wealth of european gastronomy and should be protected. at the 'adriatic-fight of authenticity' exhibition held in brussels at the beginning of march, fifteen producers of indigenous regional products presented the gastronomic heritage of dalmatia in order to make authentic adriatic gastronomy part of the rich european cuisine as soon as possible. croatian products are known for their high quality and diversity, and winemakers, oilers, cheese makers, fish processors and confectioners are croatian contributions to the european mosaic of top gastronomic offerings. in conclusion, the development of an eu education policy on food and gastronomy is of great importance as it seeks to raise awareness of food as well as to continue the gastronomic regional tradition. that's why i'm supporting this report.
written. - while certain parts of the world in the 21st century still struggle with hunger and lack of drinking water, lack of knowledge has made nutrition in the developed world the root of many health problems. a fast-paced lifestyle brings with it poor eating habits that later cause a host of eating and psychological disorders and consequently high health costs. i welcome the resolution, because if we are to avoid extraordinary healthcare costs and contribute to the quality of life, it is essential to introduce knowledge of healthy eating and eating habits into the education system. i also support the initiative to maintain the quality and diversity of local and regional traditional gastronomic products in order to combat the homogenisation that leads to the impoverishment of europe's gastronomic heritage. given that croatia is proud of its gastronomic and cultural heritage, the introduction of the geographical, historical and cultural aspects of gastronomy into the education system will contribute to the preservation and dissemination of the rich croatian socio-cultural heritage. this will also contribute to the development of tourism, as the combination of gastronomy and tourism is of great importance for the development of the tourism sector. croatia as a tourist country thus encourages the creation of new jobs in a number of economic sectors such as hospitality, agri-food and tourism. gastronomy also contributes to the development of a sense of nature conservation, since food retains its traditional, original taste without additives and preservatives.
written. - i support this report because i believe that it is necessary to make increased efforts to combat poor nutrition and the obesity that results from it, because they can be the cause of non-communicable diseases such as cardiovascular disease, diabetes or cancer. i particularly welcome the approach of educating and raising awareness of healthy eating habits and the dangers of poor nutrition from childhood. the rapporteur also recognised the dangerous trend of the increase in malnutrition in europe as a consequence of the economic crisis and i believe that we must take energetic measures to combat malnutrition, especially among children. that is why i voted for this motion for a resolution.
the general data protection regulation provides the legislative framework governing personal information within the european union. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. the right to privacy is a fundamental right of the union, and the right to privacy is a fundamental right of the union. the processing of personal data should be carried out in accordance with the law, in particular the law on the protection of personal data and the law on the protection of privacy. the data protection principles should apply to any information relating to an identifiable natural person. the data protection principles should therefore not apply to anonymous data. children need special protection of their personal data, given that they may be less aware of the risks and consequences and less aware of the safeguards and their rights in relation to the processing of personal data. this regulation is a clear step forward, with clear definitions of certain terms, principles for the use and processing of data, strict penalties for infringements and harmonised rules across the eu.
written. - i supported the report on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data. the draft regulation updates the principles of the 1995 directive to keep pace with the major changes in the processing of personal data brought about by the internet. this includes, on the one hand, data processed on the internet, such as data on social networks, online shopping and e-banking, and, on the other hand, for example, registers in hospitals and universities, data on companies and their clients, as well as personal data used for research purposes. this ensures that the principle of public access to official documents is respected. the commission shall, by means of implementing acts, adopt implementing acts laying down the rules for the protection of personal data and for the protection of the right to privacy and confidentiality of personal data. the legislation provides for a right to data protection with a right of public access to official documents. the data protection principles should apply to all information relating to natural persons. in order for the processing to be lawful, the individual must give consent to the use of his or her personal data.
written. - this data protection regulation will provide a general legislative framework for the regulation of personal data and information within the european union. this is important because european legislation on the use and protection of personal data must keep pace with the times and take into account important technological developments in recent years, such as the development of social networks and the storage of data on external servers. i agree with the idea of unifying data protection regulations at eu level and bringing in new guidelines on personal data protection and privacy. i am pleased that we will also introduce the so-called 'right to be forgotten', that is, to delete data, as another mechanism by which we will ensure anonymity to citizens who wish to do so. i would like to commend the achievements of this regulation including clear definitions and principles for the use and processing of data and the harmonisation of rules across the eu.
written. - i support the report by mr albrecht on the proposal for a regulation on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data. the controller shall inform the data subject of any change to the personal data processed in accordance with this regulation. this regulation needs to be adapted to the digital environment as it was adopted 19 years ago when less than 1% of eu citizens used the internet. since the adoption of the last regulation on the protection of personal data, many circumstances have changed, thanks to technological advances that have allowed for a wider and more extensive flow of personal data in today's globalised world. the role of the eu legislator is of paramount importance in providing comprehensive and equal data protection to citizens of the member states. the data protection authorities of the member states are responsible for the protection of personal data, including the protection of personal data, in particular the protection of personal data. since last year, the entry into force of the right to information act has also created the function of information commissioner. in addition to the existing national legal and regulatory provisions in force in croatia, this regulation will contribute to a more comprehensive protection of citizens' personal data.
written. - i support this regulation because as technology advances, so must the legislation. this regulation would cover, on the one hand, data processed on the internet, such as for social networks, online shopping and e-banking, and, on the other hand, data processed outside the internet, such as hospital and university registers, data on customers of various companies, etc. the purpose of this regulation is to protect individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and the free movement of such data. the current legal framework is based on the same ideas and principles, which has not prevented fragmentation in the way personal data protection is implemented across the union, legal uncertainty and a widespread public perception of the existence of significant risks associated in particular with online activities. the commission should also be able to provide information on the impact of the proposed amendments on the functioning of the internal market. i come from croatia, where the financial crisis is still going on, so i support the development of the digital market. the implementation of this regulation will have a positive impact by improving the legal certainty of citizens handling data, reducing the administrative burden, improving the consistency of data protection enforcement and effective supervision in the union, and facilitating the exercise of personal data protection rights by individuals.
written. - privacy is important in a global society marked by rapid technological change where the exchange of information knows no borders. the union should ensure the consistent application of the fundamental right to data protection embedded in the charter of fundamental rights of the eu and reinforce the eu's position on the protection of individuals' personal data within the framework of the overall eu policy. i support the application of this regulation to controllers and processors providing means for the processing of personal data for private or family activities and to processing involving identifiers such as internet protocol addresses, cookie identifiers and radio frequency identification tags. in accordance with the above, each supervisory authority should promote public awareness of the risks, rules, safeguards, rights associated with the processing of personal data, in particular activities specifically related to children. the supervisory authority in the member states must have adequate financial and human resources to fulfil its role fully and adequately.
written. - the purpose of this regulation is to extend the pericles 2020 programme, which is concerned with training the services of the eu member states in the fight against euro counterfeiting, to non-euro area countries. it also seeks to harmonise practices and procedures relating to counterfeiting in all the countries of the union. the programme to exchange experience, provide assistance and provide education in the fight against euro counterfeiting was launched by council decision 2001/923/ec and has been running for more than ten years. since it has proven effective, it is intended to be implemented throughout the union. in fact, although some member states do not use the single currency, the euro is still in circulation and therefore susceptible to counterfeiting. i support this report because it will certainly make it more difficult for criminal activities related to counterfeiting to occur.
written. - i welcome all the activities of the european parliament and other european institutions aimed at preventing actions that negatively affect the financial security of the european union. i support programmes such as pericles 2020 because euro counterfeiting is not just a problem for the euro area countries, it is a global phenomenon that needs to be stopped and it is the european union that is most affected. cross-border cooperation to protect the euro should create new mechanisms to stop euro counterfeiting processes and thus ensure a positive financial climate throughout the union. i suggest that in the future we continue to work on developing and supporting similar projects. i support this proposal which will contribute to the development of the financial security of the european union.
written. - i supported the report on the establishment of an exchange, assistance and training programme for the protection of the euro against counterfeiting for non-eu member states, better known as pericles 2020. pericles 2020 is a continuation of the programme established by a council decision in 2001 as a measure to protect the euro against counterfeiting. the programme will provide around eur 7 million in the new multiannual financial framework 2014-2020 and will finance assistance, exchange of experience and training for the protection against euro counterfeiting. it is important to work on educating citizens and people who handle money on a daily basis in the detection of counterfeit notes and coins, the kuna and other currencies, which is where the pericles programme funds that i support are going.
written. - i support the report on the establishment of an exchange, assistance and training programme to protect the euro against counterfeiting in the non-participating member states. raising awareness of the importance of protecting the euro in non-member countries is important because of the high level of the euro's presence in those countries, as well as the increased mobility of those citizens within the european union. it is important to note that it is in these countries that some of the more sophisticated systems for counterfeiting the euro have been found. i would also like to take this opportunity to refer to the adopted legislative resolution on the pericles 2020 programme of december 2013 which proposes adequate protection at international level that can be achieved by providing funds for the purchase of equipment intended for third country agencies dealing with the investigation of euro counterfeiting, and i would particularly stress the potential importance of such a proposal in the countries of south-east europe whose currencies are firmly linked to the value of the euro, while in kosovo and montenegro the euro is used as an official means of payment.
written. - i supported the report of the representative mcintyre because i consider it is particularly important for croatia. periclo is an exchange, assistance and training programme for the protection of the euro against counterfeiting, and the competent authority is olaf. the aim of this programme will be to raise awareness and act as a catalyst for closer cooperation between relevant structures and staff. the aim of the proposal is to extend the existing pericles 2020 resolution to member states that have not adopted the euro. the programme has so far successfully met all its objectives and i believe that further extension to non-euro area countries will improve the effectiveness of the resolution. the estimated budget for the next mff is eur 7,7 million, of which 90% is foreseen for the exchange and dissemination of information, technical, scientific and operational assistance and grants to finance the purchase of equipment to be used by anti-counterfeiting bodies. this report is important for croatia as the programme is open to the associated candidate countries, including neighbouring countries, in accordance with the conditions laid down in the association agreements and their additional protocols relating to participation in community programmes and concluded or to be concluded with those countries. the programme on the preservation of the euro in the mediterranean adopted in dubrovnik at the end of 2012 is also important.
written. - i welcome this commendable project which aims to support measures to protect euro banknotes and coins and to help national and european authorities develop close cooperation with each other and with the european commission, including non-member states and international organisations. i also support the actions that are being taken to achieve these goals. i also believe that more efforts should be made to protect the euro because the quality of counterfeit money is increasing and counterfeiters are combining protection techniques that make it harder to identify copies. according to the results of the hnb, the most popular choice of counterfeit currency in croatia is the euro; and counterfeits are in most cases rated 'good' and 'very good'.
written. - the report is fully consistent with the principle of subsidiarity and the activities carried out at national level, and with the principle of union added value in terms of a high level of cooperation between member states and third countries. i support any cooperation and exchange of information between member states and the institutions of the union aimed at combating euro counterfeiting that produces a better effect than that which would be achieved at national level. furthermore, as the significance of the euro as a world currency requires an adequate level of protection at international level, i welcome the provision encouraging cooperation with third-country participants where their presence is important for the more effective protection of the euro. such provision will result in the release of funds for the purchase of equipment intended for third country agencies dealing with the investigation of euro counterfeiting. i also emphasise the segment of the report that shows the savings in the implementation of the programme, thanks to jointly organised activities and procurement compared to possible individual national initiatives. i find the report to be positive in every segment, and therefore i voted in favour.
written. - the eastern partnership should include agreements to strengthen the european union's ties with the east. bilateral agreements should address technical problems and improve conditions that would make life easier for both eu citizens and citizens from the eastern partnership. the agreement on the facilitation of the issuance of visas between the european union and the republic of azerbaijan, signed on 28 june 2015, provides for the facilitation of the issuance of visas for the citizens of the republic of azerbaijan, in accordance with the conditions laid down in the agreement on the facilitation of the issuance of visas for citizens of the republic of azerbaijan. the provisions of the agreement should be effective in practice and should ensure respect for human rights in accordance with international law. this agreement would greatly assist azerbaijan in its rapprochement with the european union and would also facilitate the movement of population in the region. this is particularly the case with regard to the procedure for the identification and safe and lawful return of persons who do not, or no longer, fulfil the conditions for entry and residence in a given territory. i therefore support this and all other forms of cooperation that will contribute to raising the quality of life of the people living in the eastern partnership countries.
in writing. - after several rounds of negotiations, the commission and the council are now close to concluding the visa liberalisation agreement with azerbaijan. the conclusion of this agreement is an important step in the development of cooperation in the field of mobility. the process of deepening relations between the european union and azerbaijan will certainly help to extend the borders of the area of freedom, security and justice and the new rules introduced will simplify and speed up the procedures.
written. - i supported this report because i believe that the deepening of relations between azerbaijan and the european union is important in terms of establishing freedom of movement, the rule of law and security, and the establishment of a visa regime is a key factor in this process. there are two key agreements in this process. the agreement on the establishment of visa facilitation in vilnius was signed by azerbaijan on 29 november 2013 and the agreement on the re-establishment of communication is to be signed soon, after the expiry of the three-month deadline for the united kingdom, ireland and the council of the european union to decide on this issue. i believe that significant progress has been made in the negotiations conducted over the past decade and that the deepening of relations between azerbaijan and the eu will contribute to strengthening political and economic relations, as well as to the free movement of citizens between the eu and azerbaijan. the procedures will be simplified and much faster.
written. - i support the report because i agree with mrs gabriel on the need to conclude an agreement on the readmission of persons without residence permits. the readmission obligations are mutual and apply to nationals, third-country nationals and stateless persons. i also welcome the process of deepening relations between the european union and azerbaijan, as this will contribute to further progress in the area of freedom, security and justice. i agree that that agreement should be concluded as soon as possible and enter into force at the same time as the visa facilitation agreement, bearing in mind that the two treaties are linked.
written. - a positive opinion on the present report based on the indisputable fact that azerbaijan is making significant efforts to meet the requirements set. the union's contribution to the development of the union's external relations is limited to the amount of eur 500000000 and the amount of eur 300000000 is limited to the amount of eur 300000000 and the amount of eur 300000000 is limited to the amount of eur 300000000. the example given is of the essential elements needed for development in economic, social, cultural and all other relevant fields. of course, in the long term, we must aim at a complete visa abolition for the residents of azerbaijan, but this needs to be approached very carefully because of the big problem of illegal immigration that the union is facing at the moment. the simplified visa system is also a significant step forward which can be characterised as a positive signal from the european union. therefore, i expect azerbaijan to continue to act in the same direction on the sound foundations already established.
written. - i support any initiative aimed at strengthening democracy and the rule of law, particularly in the countries in the eastern neighbourhood of the european union, because i believe that we must give them all possible support in freeing themselves from the communist legacy. given that the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and the republic of azerbaijan on the facilitation of the issuance of visas is conditional upon the conclusion of the agreement on the surrender and reception of persons staying without authorization, i voted in favour of the legislative resolution giving its consent to the conclusion of that agreement. i would like to take this opportunity to express my hope that further rapprochement of azerbaijan with the european union will be based on objective criteria and will not be in the service of fulfilling the objectives and current needs of european foreign policy.
in writing. - in the long process of rapprochement between the eu and the republic of azerbaijan, the agreement on the readmission of persons staying illegally is certainly a key milestone. the agreement provides for the establishment of a joint readmission committee to monitor the proper application of the agreement. the arrangements, which include the obligation to readmit former nationals who have renounced their nationality without having acquired the nationality of another state, were established on the basis of complete reciprocity and with the sole aim of ensuring respect for the rights of citizens and their safety.
written. - i supported the report on the agreement between the european union and the republic of azerbaijan on the readmission of persons without residence permits. the process of further cooperation between the european union and azerbaijan in the area of visa liberalisation will help to advance in the areas of freedom, security and justice. the conclusion of an agreement on the reception of persons without residence permits will make this process faster and easier and help both in the mobility of citizens and in the fight against cross-border crime and illegal migration.
written. - i support the report because i agree with mrs gabriel on the need to conclude an agreement on the readmission of persons without residence permits. the readmission obligations are mutual and apply to nationals, third-country nationals and stateless persons. i also welcome the process of deepening relations between the european union and azerbaijan as it will contribute to further progress in the area of freedom, security and justice. i agree that that agreement should be concluded as soon as possible and enter into force at the same time as the agreement on the facilitation of the issuance of visas, bearing in mind that the two treaties are linked.
written. - i welcome this proposal and other activities concerning azerbaijan and establishing as high-quality relations as possible with the population of the observed country. in particular, i think it is very positive that it is proposed to introduce an obligation to allow individuals who have voluntarily renounced their citizenship to regain it, without having acquired the citizenship of another country in the meantime. of course, to make the rule even more applicable in reality, it needs to be applied to all family members. the conditions for the resettlement of individuals must be that they are in possession of a valid visa or residence permit at the time of application. this should also be given to those who entered the country illegally after entering legally. as this is a rather characteristic problem, it must be approached in the same way, as these are rather sensitive issues that must be solved in a unified manner to the satisfaction of all stakeholders involved.
written. - i am committed to the creation of a european security area that will ensure the peace and well-being of eu citizens. i therefore support the conclusion of a legislative resolution giving consent to the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and the republic of azerbaijan on the readmission of persons without residence permit. in particular, i welcome the establishment of the joint readmission committee to ensure the correct application of the agreement and to take decisions on arrangements for its uniform application.
written. - war conflicts often turn into battlefields involving children under the age of 18. this, among other things, leads to great social problems and injustices against this group. the involvement of children in armed conflict should be condemned, and the international community, including the european union, has room to become more active in preventing war crimes against children. it would be desirable for the european union to participate in the development of norms and the implementation of policies at international level which will prevent any future involvement of minors in armed conflict. in this case, cooperation with ngos that actively point out the injustices against children during armed conflicts would be desirable. according to amnesty international, children, both male and female, are actively involved in conflicts primarily to clear land mines on behalf of certain warring groups, as scouts and the like. the initiatives are positive and welcome and that is why i support this report.
written. - there are between 250,000 and 800,000 child soldiers in the world today, and they've been used in most of the military conflicts in almost every region of the world. these numbers are alarming and cannot be ignored. these are children whose childhoods have been so cruelly stolen, who live on the brink of hunger and poverty, in a perpetual war in which they themselves are participants, exposed to the worst forms of sexual and other forms of violence. it is our duty to do everything we can to save them from the clutches of cruel military groups and that is why i have endorsed this report. it is essential to protect children from recruitment into armed forces and groups and to help those children who participate in them to be demobilised and integrated into society. i think the important step that this report calls for is to encourage states and armed non-governmental actors to sign up to action plans to protect children. but we cannot stop there. we need to take more concrete measures and give financial support to those organisations that are concerned with the welfare and safety of children in the field.
written. - most modern armed conflicts involve armed non-state actors fighting against governments or other armed groups, and civilians and especially children bear the brunt of these wars. the commission should also be able to provide information on the implementation of the unscr in the context of the unfccc. the international community has a moral duty to ask all parties to the conflict to protect children. as i come from a country that has recently experienced armed conflict on its territory, i support this report. war is the most destructive thing that can befall a society or a nation, and it has the worst effect on children. children who survive the trauma of armed conflict should be given maximum support in all aspects. preventing children from participating in conflict breaks the cycle of violence and is therefore crucial for our future, security, sustainable development and further peace.
written. - considering that any armed conflict has a devastating effect on the physical and mental development of children, i strongly support this regulation. worldwide, more than 250,000 children are involved in armed conflicts, and unesco research shows that wars have kept more than 28 million children out of school. also, during armed conflicts, crossing borders between warring parties has been facilitated, leading to an increase in child trafficking. armed groups also abduct children and force them to participate in the conflict as child soldiers. as a representative of a country that was a victim of devastation not so long ago, i can confirm that armed conflict leaves long-lasting consequences for human security and sustainable development. the international community has a moral responsibility to demand that all parties to the conflict commit to the protection of civilians, and especially children. in croatia there are still minefields where every step is potentially dangerous. in war-torn areas, people daily worry about the safety of their children.
written. - most modern armed conflicts involve one or more armed non-governmental actors fighting against the government or other armed groups, leaving civilians, especially children, to bear the brunt of the wars. in order to improve the protection of civilians, and in particular children, all parties to the conflict need to be taken into account. the icc statute criminalizes the recruitment and enlistment of children under the age of 15 into armed forces or groups and their involvement in active participation in hostilities. accordingly, the international community has a moral responsibility to call on all parties to conflict, including states and armed non-governmental actors, to commit themselves in this regard to protect children. i support this report and the efforts made by the un and ngos to convince ngos to protect children, in order to prevent and stop the recruitment and violent recruitment of children under the age of 18 and to ensure their release and reintegration into society.
written. - the european parliament, in its desire to strengthen parliamentary democracy through continuous interparliamentary dialogue, will decide on the number of delegations and their regional groups. the membership of the parliamentary committees established under the economic partnership agreement (epa) would be composed exclusively of the international trade committee and the development committee, ensuring the continued leading role of the international trade committee as the responsible committee, and should actively coordinate their work with the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly. the membership of the delegation for relations with the nato parliamentary assembly would be composed exclusively of the subcommittee on security and defence. the conference of presidents of delegations should draw up a draft six-monthly calendar, which should be adopted by the conference of presidents after consulting the committee on foreign affairs, the committee on development and the committee on international trade, it being understood, however, that the conference of presidents may adapt the calendar to political developments. the commission will also continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, in particular through the european neighbourhood instrument (enpi) and the european neighbourhood instrument (enpi). this decision should enter into force at the first sitting of the eighth parliamentary term.
written. - according to the polls, most europeans are not against nanotechnology. they have no clear vision of the advantages, the disadvantages, or the possible negative consequences. the public acceptance of nanomaterials is at its lowest when it comes to food. the current definition of nanomaterials is generic and does not provide citizens with sufficient information. the resolution would harmonise and adapt this definition at international level in the light of scientific and technical progress. however, uncertainties regarding the risks remain and therefore a clear definition is needed to ensure that appropriate chemical safety rules are applied. the european chemicals agency considers that the information currently available on nanomaterials is insufficient to adequately assess their potential effect. the definition will help all stakeholders, including industrial companies, by bringing together the different definitions currently in use in different sectors. the basic objective of the directive is a high level of protection of the health and interests of consumers. the general interest of the union should be to enable final consumers to make a choice based on reliable information.
written. - i support this initiative by the environmental, health and food safety committee. with the ultimate aim of informing consumers and preserving food safety, i believe that the commission must certainly take parliament's position into account and send a new proposal to amend the regulation. the fact that consumer confidence in the european union has been undermined must be taken into account, and therefore maximum efforts must be made to make consumers aware of the effectiveness of european regulations, in particular in the case of consumer information, i.e. information on the presence of manufactured nanomaterials. the main objective of the directive that the commission is seeking to amend is to promote a high level of protection of consumers' health and interests by providing the possibility to make informed decisions. i therefore ask whether the commission is aware of the contradiction it creates by amending the directive. the 50[nbsp]% threshold for nanomaterials is unacceptable and scientific recommendations should be taken into account and the presence of manufactured nanomaterials should be indicated if the threshold is higher than 10[nbsp]%. we must not let down consumer confidence, which is why i support this motion for a resolution.
written. - i consider that the objection to commission delegated regulation (eu) no 1169/2011 of the european parliament and of the council of 12 december 2013 on food information to consumers with regard to the definition of 'manufactured nanomaterials' is justified. we know that the food information regulation clearly states that all ingredients in food that are present in the form of manufactured nanomaterials must be clearly indicated on the list of ingredients for the purpose of consumer information. however, the fact is that the regulation empowers the commission to harmonise and adapt the definition of 'manufactured nanomaterials'. i would also point out that most of the food of inferior quality ends up on the shelves of the countries that have recently joined the union, including croatia. i welcome the motion for a resolution because i also consider that the commission's delegated regulation is not in line with the objective and content of the basic act and goes beyond the powers conferred on the commission under the basic act.
mr president, this report is linked to the report on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data. the directive would replace and extend the scope of cross-border data processing in police and judicial cooperation and should protect domestic and cross-border data transfers. however, i do not support the draft directive in this form, because a reasonable balance between the right to privacy and law enforcement activities has not been found. according to experts in the police community, the compromises of the informants are neither feasible nor sustainable. critical points are the sharing of data with third parties, the rights of the suspect, some definitions and the bureaucracy related to this directive. while it's a limitation to follow these provisions, we need to prevent online companies from quietly collecting personal data and selling it to the highest bidder. in any case, i am in favour of better regulation of the protection of personal data, but i think that there is still a lot to be discussed before this directive is adopted.
written. - i supported this proposal for a directive because protecting individuals in the processing of personal data means protecting privacy and other human rights and fundamental freedoms. the processing of personal data by the controller shall be carried out in accordance with the law of the member state in which the controller is established. the european parliament and the council should lay down rules relating to the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and rules relating to the free movement of such data and to their privacy. the processing of personal data should be carried out in accordance with the principles of data protection and data protection by the member states. it is of course important that the data subject has a clear view, that is to say, information, on the purpose for which his or her data are processed, who processes them and who uses them. the controller shall also have the right to request the correction, amendment or completion of inaccurate, incomplete or inaccurate data, the right to waive the consent to the processing of data and the right to request the cessation of further processing. at the same time, it is necessary to work on raising citizens' awareness of the potential for misuse of personal data, especially among the younger generations.
written. - as we have all witnessed the recent discovery of a vast network of espionage and agree that it is a blow to privacy as one of the important rights of eu citizens, this directive has come at the right time. in order to protect the privacy of eu citizens' data while maintaining the level of criminal investigations, we need to ensure that legislation represents a fine balance between the powers and responsibilities of the competent authorities and their control mechanisms. i therefore commend the balance achieved between guaranteeing a high level of protection and at the same time the smooth functioning of the criminal justice institutions achieved by this directive. the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the directive on the protection of personal data by the supervisory authorities of the member states.
written. - the proposal for a directive on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data by the competent authorities for the purposes of the prevention, investigation, detection or prosecution of criminal offences or the execution of criminal penalties, and on the free movement of such data, is an important secondary eu legislative act. the directive aims to preserve the fundamental rights of personal data protection and to guarantee the free flow of information between member states. in such a system of requesting personal data, member states would have a major role in making those data available and understandable. the member state concerned shall inform the data subject of any change to the data subject's personal data in accordance with article 6 of this regulation. but i think the report has failed to fully balance the right to privacy on the one hand and more than necessary enforcement of the legislation on the other. in this context, i do not support the current draft report because i believe that it has not achieved the objective that the commission set out in its directive, which is the successful extension of the framework decision on the cross-border processing of personal data by police and judicial cooperation.
written. - this report is linked to the report on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data. the directive would replace and extend the scope of cross-border data processing in police and judicial cooperation and should protect domestic and cross-border data transfers. however, i do not support the draft directive in this form because it has failed to strike a reasonable balance between the right to privacy and law enforcement activities. according to experts in the police community, mr. droutsas's compromises are neither feasible nor sustainable. critical points are the sharing of data with third parties, the rights of the suspect, some definitions and the bureaucracy associated with this directive. while the restrictions follow this provision, we must prevent online companies from quietly collecting personal data and selling it to the highest bidder. most companies cite 'legitimate interests' as a valid reason to obtain more data than necessary but we must be careful that 'legitimate interests' do not become an excuse for violating data protection rights. in any case, i am in favour of better regulation of the protection of personal data, but i believe that a number of discussions are needed before a directive is adopted.
written. - as we witness humanity's astonishing advances in technology and information technology, the privacy segment is simultaneously becoming more vulnerable than ever before. in this context, i certainly agree with the finding that the union should ensure the consistent and uniform application of the rules for the protection of fundamental rights and freedoms of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data. however, i do not agree with interfering with the competences of the member states in order to give the commission the power to prohibit the transfer of personal data to the third country or international organisation concerned where it is considered that the 'legitimate interest' of that person outweighs the public interest. since such a power in the hands of the commission would make the day-to-day work of the police forces of the member states much more difficult, i consider this to be a serious breach of the principle of subsidiarity and an unnecessary intrusion into an area where the same objective is more effectively pursued by the member states at national, regional and even local level.
mr president, i support this proposal for the implementation of the single sky which aims to accelerate the implementation of reforms and services in air navigation, while remaining faithful to the original objectives and principles. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on air safety and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on civil aviation safety and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on civil aviation safety and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on civil aviation safety and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on civil aviation safety and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on civil aviation safety and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on civil aviation safety. compared to 2004, the single european sky could triple airspace capacity, halve air traffic management costs, increase safety 10 times and reduce the environmental impact of aviation by 10%. the result would be shorter flight times, lower flight costs and fewer harmful emissions than air travel. as i come from croatia where tourism is a major part of economic activity, this would greatly improve the quality and accessibility taking into account the environmental protection of the member states as tourist destinations, but also air travel in general.
in writing. - the single european sky (ses) initiative was launched in 2000 and brought air traffic management and navigation services into the framework of the common transport policy. the recast of the single european sky regulation is intended to accelerate the implementation of the reform of air transport services while remaining faithful to the original objectives and principles. it intends to achieve this objective, inter alia, by strengthening the independence of the national supervisory authorities, by enhancing the role of the network operator, by redefining the concept of functional airspace blocks and giving industry a more prominent role, and by providing for competitive tendering procedures for the selection of air transport support services.
written. - the single european sky (ses) initiative was launched in 2000, bringing together air traffic management and navigation services under a common transport policy. the commission notes that the airport services agreement with ses was signed on 28 june 2013 and that the agreement was signed on 27 june 2013. the commission notes that the airport operator has not provided any evidence that the airport operator has been operating in a market economy. this regulation lays down rules for the establishment and proper functioning of the single european sky, focusing on the introduction of advanced safety standards in air transport, the development of a sustainable air transport system, the improvement of air traffic management (atm) and the improvement of air navigation services (ans) in the eu. i support this report because it proposes to strengthen the independence of national supervisory authorities, to introduce the responsibility of network operators and performance review bodies, to support air navigation services, to establish and operate functional airspace blocks. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the establishment of a european data protection supervisor.
written. - i see these amendments, which seek to accelerate the implementation of reforms and secure the stated objective of strengthening the efficiency of european airlines and increasing the competitiveness of the sector, as a last chance to accelerate the delayed flight of the european aviation industry before we experience a new wave of bankruptcies due to strong competition from countries outside the european union. only strong european cooperation can ensure the safe, low-cost and high-quality management of european skies, and we can achieve this through increased and impartial surveillance with clear and unambiguous rules. i consider it necessary to ensure the independence of the supervisory authorities and their funding, as an impartial and independent body will certainly facilitate the very course of these reforms and increase the necessary transparency and efficiency in the implementation of the single european sky. the commission has also taken note of the fact that the commission has not provided any evidence that the air carriers concerned have been operating in breach of the rules on competition and that the commission has not provided any evidence that the air carriers concerned have been operating in breach of the rules on competition and that the commission has not provided any evidence that the air carriers concerned have been operating in breach of the rules on competition and that the commission has not provided any evidence that the air carriers concerned have been operating in breach of the rules on competition and that the commission has not provided any evidence that the air carriers concerned have been operating in breach of the rules on competition and that the air carriers concerned have not been operating in breach of the rules on competition and that the commission has not provided any evidence that the air carriers concerned have been operating in breach of the rules on competition and that the air carriers concerned have not complied with the rules on competition and that the commission has not provided any evidence that the air carriers concerned have been operating in breach of the rules on competition and that the air carriers concerned have not complied with the rules on competition and competition. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the airport operator has been able to obtain a profit before tax on the airport services provided by the airport operator.
written. - i supported the report by mr marian-jean marinesc on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the implementation of the single european sky because, although 10 years have passed since the first regulation, the air borders between us still exist and the desired unification has not yet been achieved to the extent expected. the result is a high degree of fragmentation of european airspace, divided into more than 650 sectors under different national flight controls. the commission notes that the airport services agreement concluded between ryanair and ams was signed on the same day as the airport services agreement signed with ryanair on the same day. by comparison, the united states, with the same cost, covers twice as many flights. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new ses2+ and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new ses2+ and the ses2++ and ses2++ and ses2++ respectively. in addition, it will enhance and facilitate cooperation between the armed forces on all air traffic management issues which may already be of significant strategic interest.
written. - this regulation lays down rules for the establishment and proper functioning of the single european sky in order to ensure the latest standards of aviation safety and to contribute to the sustainable development of the air traffic system and to improve the overall performance of air traffic management (atm). the single european sky should have a positive impact on growth, employment and competitiveness in europe, in particular by stimulating demand for highly skilled jobs. the national supervisory authorities should also exchange information on their work and decision-making principles, practices and procedures and on the implementation of union law and cooperate with a view to coordinating their decision-making across the union. while i agree with most of the amendments to this report, i did not support the proposal for a regulation article 3 in which the rapporteur proposes to transfer responsibility from the current national aviation authorities naaas and the national supervisory authorities nsas to one national aviation authority. as stated above, i abstained.
mr president, this regulation ensures progress on a number of issues relating to the establishment of the agency, the choice of its seat, its management, operation and use of resources and control mechanisms, and as such i support it and have voted in favour of it. the main objective of this regulation is to establish and maintain a high uniform level of civil aviation safety in europe and to establish the governance structure of the european union aviation agency. we have witnessed the recent crash of a malaysian passenger plane that has shocked the world. i hope to find the cause of the accident as soon as possible and to stop its recurrence, and i express my sympathy to the victims and their families. there is a huge potential for the development of air transport in croatia, especially towards the south of croatia, which is unfortunately cut off and is only an air destination, and in particular the city of dubrovnik, from which i come. governments, airlines and airports must work together to find models to promote travel and tourism.
in writing. - the air transport sector has evolved considerably and increasingly in recent years, which is why it is important to ensure maximum efficiency and safety of the service. the regulation amending regulation (ec) no 216/2008 as regards airports, air traffic management and air navigation services is part of the single european sky package and addresses the issue of aviation safety and the competence of the european aviation safety agency (easa). this is a very important regulation for two reasons: on the one hand, adaptation to the new rules of the single european sky, and on the other hand, governance reform, aimed at implementing the interinstitutional agreement on european agencies signed in july 2012.
written. - i voted in favour of this report because its main objective is to establish and maintain a uniform level of civil aviation safety in europe and to establish governance through the european aviation agency. i believe that regulations on airports, air traffic management and services are very important parts of the plan for a single european sky. i also think it is important to talk about the issue of air safety and the powers of the european aviation safety agency. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 264 concerning the establishment of a european space programme. i believe that this path should be continued in view of the growing need for aviation safety and the need to maintain effective international relations in the aviation sector.
written. - i welcome the european commission's efforts to increase the safety and efficiency of air transport, and i particularly support the emphasis on the financial independence of the national supervisory authorities. however, i consider that the proposal imposes an excessively rigorous control of economic factors which may harm efficiency, and there is also a risk of price increases due to the mandatory institutional separation of ancillary and other services in air transport and the introduction of previously non-existent costs of controlling the external provision of ancillary services. the question of reducing the number of providers will certainly facilitate the path towards the establishment of a single functional airspace block, but in the long term it may lead to the assimilation or elimination of smaller providers and it is questionable whether this loss will be compensated by the member states in the form of new jobs. the exclusion of member states from the decision-making process on the development and provision of air navigation services will consequently limit member states in fulfilling their international obligations in the field of the provision of those services and therefore consideration should be given to designing an alternative model to increase efficiency and safety in the field of air traffic management.
written. - i support the rapporteur's primary focus on the primacy of aviation safety and, accordingly, the further definition of the role of the air safety agency. i consider this report to be a typical example of the positive added value that the union can offer to member states, while respecting the principle that the same objective could not be achieved equally effectively at national, regional or local level. that's why i voted yes.
mr president, the directive is necessary because legislation must keep pace with technology. the provisions of the directive will apply to online travel purchases and the proposed directive provides for penalties and clarifies the scope of protection of travellers when purchasing travel services by bringing different forms of online packages and other products and travel arrangements within its scope. such harmonisation and level of compliance is in the interest of both consumers and traders. the commission notes that the airport operator has not provided any evidence that the airport operator has been operating in a market economy. market developments create increasing uncertainties and consumers are often left in the dark and uninformed about the type of protection they can expect. it is obvious that legislation must be aligned with the news on the market, so i welcome this initiative, especially as i come from croatia which has a developed tourism industry and i think that increased transparency will be positive for all market participants.
mr president, a fully integrated and efficient market in which our consumers will enjoy equal protection with clearly defined rights - is one of the key objectives we are striving to achieve in the european union through different legal solutions. the report by mr mayer is a further step in that direction, particularly when it comes to package travel and assisted travel arrangements. because of a number of good initiatives and very practical solutions that our consumers seek to protect against possible risks and financial loss, i was very happy to support it. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on tourism and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on tourism and the development of the union's tourism policy. i particularly welcome this part of the report which seeks to tackle all the different forms of marketing, especially on the internet, and to clearly define the forms of prevention and the various frauds that threaten customers when buying such arrangements.
mr president, i supported the report by my colleague, mr hans-peter mayer, on the proposal for a directive on package travel and assisted travel arrangements, because i believe that in today's digital age we need to be one step ahead of what is in front of us, especially when it comes to consumer protection. this new amended directive ensures the correlation between legislation and new technologies and will apply to the purchase of travel over the internet and proposes and prescribes penalties in case of abuse. such a level of harmonisation is in the interest of both consumers and service providers, as the market has changed significantly since the first directive in 1990, as the expansion of online sales and liberalisation in the air sector has changed the way consumers plan and organise their travel, especially now that they do so online. coming from a country that derives a large part of its income from tourism, i believe that any initiative that is in the interest of consumer protection is a good step forward.
written. - travel and tourism account for 10% of the eu's gdp. in order to further stimulate this important sector, it is necessary to strengthen the protection of consumers of such services. this report revises the commission proposal and aims to protect 1.8 million jobs, or 5.2% of the european workforce. the report primarily concerns online purchases of travel. the electronics market grew by 20% in 2012 and weighs 520 billion euros. it is forecast to continue to grow at an annual rate of 10%. however, as many as 50% of consumers do not buy online because they do not trust the service provider. i support this report because it adapts existing legislation to the needs of the market and new technologies with a view to consumer protection.
written. - these regulations will apply to online and offline travel services and will significantly increase the competitiveness of services, especially in the tourism market. the proposed directive would provide for penalties for breach of contract and clarify the rights and responsibilities of the customer when purchasing individual or combined services. the distinction between tourist accommodation and assisted tourist accommodation would clearly define that each individual provider of the assisted tourist accommodation is responsible for the performance of the service offered. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on air safety and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on air safety and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on air safety and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on air safety and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on air safety and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on air safety and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on air safety and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on air safety and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on air safety and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on air safety. the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the proposed regulation on the market for retailers, in particular on the retail sector, by assessing the impact of the proposed regulation on the market for retailers. the commission notes that the measure is not intended to provide an incentive for private operators to provide accommodation to their customers. i support the report, i believe it is of great importance for improving the functioning of the market in the package travel sector.
written. - as tourism represents 10% of the european union's gdp and in croatia the financial impact of tourism is twice as high as the union average, this key sector needs to be modernised, bearing in mind the need to strengthen tourist information and protection. the protection of tourists is of paramount importance at the time of travel, and the package travel directive was adopted in 1991, but the market has changed considerably in the last twenty years the liberalisation of the airline sector has changed the way consumers plan their travel, and recently the internet has become a key tool for creating their own travel plans instead of choosing existing packages. these developments show the need to update the directive and i therefore support the amendments, especially those concerning the necessary commissions in cases of change in the price of the journey, for the benefit of consumers.
written. - tourism plays an important role in the economies of the union, with travel, leisure and package tours accounting for a significant share of this market. since the adoption of directive 90/314/eec, the market for travel services has undergone significant changes. in addition to traditional distribution chains, the internet is becoming an increasingly important medium for offering travel services. as tourism accounts for 15% of gdp in my country, i support the adaptations and amendments to this directive which aim to contribute to the proper functioning of the internal market and to achieve a high level of consumer protection in relation to package travel contracts and associated travel arrangements concluded between travellers and traders. in order to ensure that travellers are protected against the risk of insolvency, the member states should be able to require travellers to provide insurance cover for the costs of their travel arrangements.
mr. chairman, as a member of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, i support this regulation because i think we need to think now and immediately about the quality of life of future generations and about the balance between industrial development and environmental protection. the commission should be able to assess the impact of the proposed amendments on the environment and the environment protection of the union's forests, and to take into account the impact of the amendments on the environment. if we ensure that f-gases are replaced by safe alternative sources with no or less impact on the climate, annual emissions can be reduced by two thirds by 2030 at relatively low cost. the regulation could have a positive impact on industry by encouraging innovation and the development of new industrial process technologies while encouraging investment for the benefit of small and medium-sized enterprises.
written. - fluorinated greenhouse gases, by some estimates, heat the atmosphere 23,000 times more than carbon dioxide. and once released into the environment, they persist for thousands of years. today, this type of gas is used primarily in air conditioners, insulation foams, aerosol sprays, and fire suppression systems. this regulation aims at a gradual reduction of the use of fluorinated gases in the european union. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's climate action plan, including the implementation of the union's climate action strategy, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's climate action plan. the european union must continue to lead the world in ecology and the fight against climate change, and that is why i support this report.
written. - fluorinated greenhouse gases currently account for a small percentage of total greenhouse gas emissions in the european union and are predominantly used in areas of the union with warmer climatic conditions. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the conditions for the granting of such rights. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 264 concerning the amendment of the list of sources of fluorinated greenhouse gases to which the member states are party. i hope that this, in addition to the obvious environmental benefits, will also provide support for the market for sustainable alternative fuels. in addition, bearing in mind the availability of alternative and reliable economically feasible solutions designed to operate in the different climatic conditions of the member states, i agree that the 2030 emission reduction target of more than two thirds compared to 2010 can be achieved.
written. - i supported the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on fluorinated greenhouse gases by mr bas eichhout because we have to face the fact that such gases are very aggressive towards the natural earth's mantle. the role of fluorinated gases in the global warming process is enormous, mainly due to their relative greenhouse potential (gwp), which is 23000 times higher for gases such as sulphur hexafluoride or 6500 gwp of carbon dioxide (co2) for perfluorocarbon, and can persist in the atmosphere for thousands of years, making them very dangerous and undesirable for the preservation of the normal ozone layer. the use of these gases in a number of industrial sectors and households has increased significantly and could reach up to 8% of global greenhouse gas emissions by 2050, up from 1.3% in 2004. such gases are exclusively anthropogenic because they could not be found in the atmosphere before the development of the industrial revolution, whereas their present concentration, for example in rh, is 72 pptv for sulphur hexafluoride, which is most associated with the production of magnesium, and 110 pptv for perfluorocarbon obtained from the production of aluminium. with our responsible attitudes towards the present and the future, we must think and plan for the quality of life of future generations and strike a balance between industrial development and environmental protection. that's why i endorsed the report.
written. - the aim of this regulation is to protect the environment by reducing emissions of fluorinated greenhouse gases and to encourage innovation in sustainable technologies. accordingly, this regulation lays down rules for the reduction of emissions, use, collection and disposal of fluorinated greenhouse gases and prohibits the use of those gases for specific purposes, while setting quantitative limits for the placing on the market of hfcs. the increased use of fluorinated greenhouse gases has achieved the goal of replacing other substances that deplete the ozone layer. fluorinated greenhouse gases currently account for only 2% of total greenhouse gas emissions in the union and are predominantly used in areas of the union with warmer climatic conditions. the commission should also be able to take into account the impact of the new rules on the free movement of goods and services, the need to ensure that the rules on free movement of goods and services are applied in a fair and transparent manner, and the need to ensure that the rules on free movement of goods and services are applied in a fair and transparent manner. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. the obligation to establish and maintain records of equipment containing such gases should therefore also apply to electrical fitting and other equipment covered by this regulation.
mr president, i have supported this directive today not because i want young people to leave croatia and go to the european union countries, because that was bad in the past when croats had to leave croatia, for economic or political reasons. however, the reason why i support this directive is that the union is based on democratic values, on the free movement of people, goods and services, and as the newest member of the european union, croatia supports these fundamental principles and we want our citizens to enjoy the same freedoms as other citizens of the european union. this directive ensures the right of every citizen of the union, irrespective of his place of residence, who moves to another member state for the purpose of obtaining employment and therefore wishes to establish a basis of equality, to ensure the prevention of any form of discrimination.
mr president, as a representative of croatia, where the unemployment rate in all age groups is one of the highest in the european union, and as a member of a people who have been leaving their shores for decades in search of a better life, i am particularly interested in this issue. i am pleased that the resolution in its opening remarks recognised the potentially harmful consequences of increased mobility, in particular the brain drain and the young. but unfortunately it remains a dead letter on paper, because the proposal for a directive directly encourages mobility as a way of regulating the labour market. since the beginning of my mandate in the european parliament, i have been fighting against this approach to the problem of unemployment in the european union, because i believe that with this strategy the poorer member states will be left without a young educated population as the bearer of future development and growth. that is why i voted against this motion.
mr president, i welcome this directive which aims to ensure easier exercise of rights in the context of the free movement of workers within the european union by defining specific areas in which discrimination, in particular discrimination on grounds of nationality, is prohibited. but on the other hand, while i support this initiative which will consolidate the fundamental values of the european union, and freedom of movement of people is indeed that, on this occasion i must nevertheless refer to the discrimination against croatian citizens - i am referring to the outcome of the swiss referendum and what came out of it, i.e. the refusal of the swiss authorities to sign the protocol on the extension of the agreement on the free movement of persons by which that agreement would have been extended to croatia. the european commission has reacted to this, the european commission has done everything, and now i expect the member states and the council to protect croatian interests.
mr president, the free movement of workers is not only one of the foundations on which the european union is built, but it is a key element in the development of a stable and fully integrated internal market for our community. since this report seeks to further strengthen such freedom, i was very happy to support it. in particular, because the freedom of movement of workers in some of the member states has recently been reviewed in a negative way. i would also like to give my strong support to two other important elements of this report. first, equal pay and equal conditions of work, equal value in the same workplace and in every profession. whether the workers are men or women. this is a principle that must be respected without exception and there must be no compromise. on the other hand, i consider it essential that member states ensure mutual recognition of the different legal partnerships and the rights arising from them in order to avoid any discrimination on grounds of the sexual orientation and religious, philosophical or other beliefs of migrant workers. without this, we are opening up the door to forms of discrimination that have long since found their place in the dustbin of history.
mr president, i supported this proposal for a directive because i believe that the realisation of workers' rights in the context of freedom of movement should be one of the primary objectives of the european union, since its realisation is a key factor in the development of a genuine labour market in the union. we know that many challenges still lie ahead of us on the road to effectively achieving freedom of movement for workers. first of all, because there is still too wide a gap between the legislative framework governing such rules and their application in practice. the restrictions, which in most cases stem from the particular interests of the various member states, are too numerous. the application of this directive must be clear to all member states in order to prevent any form of discrimination. only when the freedom of movement of workers is truly realized will we be able to say that we are truly united in our diversity. i therefore hope that this directive will help to ensure that these rights do not remain on paper but are put into practice for the benefit of the european union as a whole.
mr president, i have supported this report by our colleague edith bauer which relates to a directive on measures to facilitate workers' rights in the context of one of the four fundamental freedoms of the european union, that is freedom of movement. we know that the data show that somewhere around 3% of the total number of eu citizens in practice use this right, which is of course a good indicator and removes fears and too much outflow of young people and brains and on the contrary, i would say it generates a thesis about two-way communication in professional career development within the eu, because this is the very core and meaning of both the internal market and our fundamental freedoms. i believe that the compromise reached in the committee's work and the achievements of parliament will reduce all forms of discrimination that workers from other member states have encountered in their practical situations.
mr president, the free movement of workers is a fundamental principle of the common market and one of the greatest achievements of the european union. the magnitude of this achievement is even greater when we realize that it was achieved just a few decades after the most devastating conflict in european history. furthermore, the union was conceived and extended in good times so that we could better cope together with difficult ones. citizens who voted in referendums for their countries to join the union, whether it was 1 or 30 years ago, had this freedom in mind. that is why any attempt to deny it or to limit it is a fraud on all the people who voted for a europe without frontiers. i support this report and the provisions which speak of preserving the freedom of movement of european workers and protecting their rights. workers should be protected against discrimination on grounds of nationality in respect of employment, remuneration and other working conditions and should enjoy equal treatment with nationals of the member state in which they reside.
written. - the current economic crisis is acting as a challenge to the institutions of the european union, which are constantly working to restore the confidence of european citizens in the debate on the protection of the free movement of workers. the emergence of the crisis is also changing citizens' attitudes towards the european union, and they are often in favour of closed and discriminatory societies. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market. such policies are not welcome, because the free movement of workers is one of the reasons for the very existence of the european union. parliament should therefore certainly support the efforts of all institutions that want to provide workers with information on their rights in the member states where they are located, protection against discrimination and any other activities aimed at helping workers who are not in their home country. i welcome the efforts of our bodies in defending freedom of movement and establishing better conditions for workers outside their home countries.
written. - i fully support this report because although there are 14 million eu citizens currently living outside their home member state, they represent only 3% of the total population of the union. in the crisis that has gripped the eu in recent years, the disparity in unemployment rates between member states has become more pronounced. i consider that facilitating the mobility of workers within the union's single market is crucial for its advancement and competitiveness in the global market. without a common market to offset the blows, the crisis would be even deeper. the mobility of workers maintains balance, provides stability to the economy and enables it to grow and develop. yet, it is worrying that the europe-fortress, as a notion of restrictive attitudes towards immigrants or freedom of movement, does not exist only on the eu's eastern borders or on the northern shores of the mediterranean. the results of the referendum in switzerland put croatian citizens at a disadvantage compared to their eu counterparts, as their rights of movement in relation to switzerland will be restricted, alongside already restricted rights in some other eu member states. freedom of movement is one of the four fundamental freedoms of the eu, which in this case becomes more important than the others because it has a symbolic dimension in addition to the economic one, which is why the eu must continue to act together in the future in order to be competitive in the global market and protect the fundamental freedoms of its citizens equally for all.
written. - as a full member of the committee on employment and social affairs, i consider this subject to be of particular importance, both for croatia and for the other member states of the union. as i have repeatedly expressed in my speeches my fear of mobility because of the possible economic and demographic collapse of the poorer member states of the union, i have voted against it. i will not give up fighting against this approach to the problem of unemployment in the eu because i believe that with this strategy the poorer member states will be left without a young educated population as the bearer of future development and growth.
mr president, this is a subject of particular interest to me as a member of the environment committee, but also as a representative of the youngest member of the union characterised by a secluded coastline combined with natural resources, which make our country an attractive destination for people of all interests. i am particularly sensitive to any potential negative impacts arising from the projects, because it is croatia's natural resources that can and must be the driver of future economic development. it is important to strike a balance between the benefits of the project itself and its impact on the environment, while at the same time in its development aspects we have a task to inform citizens in a timely manner, this is very important. the visual aspect shall be a key criterion in the assessment of the environmental impact of the preservation of the historical and cultural heritage of natural landscapes and urban areas. and since this issue goes beyond the question of national territories, i supported mr zanoni's report and i am in favour of making this completely transparent.
mr president, i have supported the report by mr zanoni on the amendment of the directive on the assessment of the environmental impact of certain public and private projects. it builds on the europe 2020 strategy with a focus on sustainable development where we must ensure both a climate for investment and economic development, but at the same time protect the union's environment and natural resources and adapt to new environmental factors such as biodiversity, climate change and alignment with the principles of smart regulation. the careful selection process for projects introduced by the directive should involve those with a real impact on the environment. the commission should also be able to request the member states to provide information on the impact of the proposed measures on the environment and the environment in the light of the current situation. with croatia's accession to the eu, we have protected 44% of the land area and 38% of the sea area through the natura 2000 network. in the near future, we expect a boost in the development of public infrastructure and projects through investments from the structural funds.
written. - climate change and environmental issues are of paramount importance to every citizen, and a healthy and high-quality environment is a public good that must be guaranteed for all present and future generations. the assessment of projects and their environmental impact is an indispensable prerequisite for environmental awareness and i believe that the proposed directive goes in the direction of recognising the importance of shared responsibility for the environment. the verification shall address the project's shortcomings and risks, avoid and minimise unintended negative effects and allow for the application of alternative methods. with the enlargement of the european union, eu-level infrastructure projects have a natural and wider-ranging impact on the environment. to ensure that a proactive approach to the assessment of projects and their environmental impact delivers good results, we need to establish an effective common policy with common control mechanisms.
the directive on the assessment of the effects of public and private projects on the environment is changing, since it was adopted in 1985 and needs to be brought into line with the political, legal and technical progress achieved in the meantime. the european union is a global leader in ecology and 'green' development today and therefore needs to adapt its legislation to the goals we have set for ourselves in terms of sustainability, biodiversity and climate change. the overall objective of the change is to adopt more harmonised and more efficient environmental impact assessment procedures. the end result should be a directive with less administrative burden that will have a positive impact on the environment and human health. today we know much more about how certain projects and interventions affect nature and quality of life, and therefore there is a need to extend the rules and standards for environmental impact assessment. i support this report because it sets the rules, it tracks the progress of scientific knowledge and it involves citizens more strongly in the decision-making on projects that are implemented in their living space.
in writing. - directive 2011/92/eu on the assessment of the environmental impact of certain public and private projects (eia directive) aims to ensure the environmental sustainability of projects falling within its scope; the directive therefore affects a wide range of industrial sectors such as energy, transport, construction, waste disposal, agriculture, etc. the aim of the report is to adapt the provisions of the codified version of the directive to correct its shortcomings and to reflect ongoing environmental and socioeconomic changes.
written. - i supported the report which stresses the importance of maintaining biodiversity, strategic use of natural resources, prevention of disaster risk and other factors, and is introduced with the aim of protecting the environmental impact assessment of projects. the new proposal for a commission directive on which this report is based calls on the competent institutions to specify the scope and level of detail of the information to be included in the environmental report. in addition, obligations to assess reasonable alternatives to the project and to monitor significant adverse environmental impacts and administrative simplification are introduced. it is important to administratively harmonise the environmental impact assessment of publicly funded public projects and to reduce unnecessary costs of private projects, some of which have a significant environmental impact. smart management can achieve a satisfactory level of cost-benefit balance between people and nature.
written. - i welcome and support the report by mr zanoni, which aims to harmonise the principles for assessing the environmental impact of projects by introducing minimum requirements that contribute to a high level of protection of the environment and human health. this is a new tool available to citizens to verify the legal basis of developing projects, which increases transparency as well as accountability of national authorities. it is worth noting that in recent years, environmental issues have become more politically important, such as resource efficiency and sustainability, the protection of biodiversity, land use, climate change, and the risk of natural and man-made disasters. therefore, i agree that environmental issues should be taken into account in the assessment and decision-making procedures of public or private projects that have an impact on the environment. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation.
written. - in the last decade, environmental issues such as resource efficiency and sustainability, biodiversity protection, land use, climate change and the risk of natural and man-made disasters have become more prominent in policy-making. it should therefore represent important elements in the assessment and decision-making processes with regard to any public or private projects that could have significant effects on the environment, in particular in relation to infrastructure projects. in many cases, administrative procedures become overly complex and time-consuming, causing delays and creating additional risks for environmental protection. i agree with the amendment of this directive which aims at simplifying and harmonising procedures and making implementation more effective at member state level. however, i voted against this report because it retained the mandatory environmental impact assessment for shale gas exploration. the commission considers that the measures in question are appropriate to address the specific needs of the union industry and the union industry as a whole.
written. - the objective of this report is to transfer the delegated powers to the commission, which are granted for five years, where the commission is empowered to adopt delegated acts in almost all cases where regulatory procedures with scrutiny are used. the difference between implementing acts and delegated acts is not their independence, but whether they deal with abstract or concrete situations. however, irrespective of their independence, rules and standards should always be adopted by means of delegated acts. it is precisely the limitation of the commission's powers to five years that allows for better scrutiny by parliament, obliges the commission to draw up a report no later than nine months before the end of the five-year period and facilitates the implementation of the common commercial policy. the report also contributes to legal certainty and the legibility of the legislation for the rest of the public. i agree with the general objective of the report on amending regulation (ec) no 471/2009 on community statistics relating to external trade with non-member countries as regards the conferral of delegated and implementing powers on the commission to adopt certain measures. i therefore support this report.
written. - in the amendments nos 1 to 9 and 11 respectively, the rapporteur proposes to replace the implementing acts by delegated acts. parliament should therefore be more specific in separating by-laws and implementing acts. in that case, the commission would be authorised to implement laws under the control of the member state without the involvement of parliament. the commission proposes to use delegated acts in almost all cases except two. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. therefore, regardless of the degree of contentiousness of the issues, the rules and standards should be implemented by means of delegated acts with the aim of respecting parliament's decisions. the commission shall draw up a report in respect of the delegation of power not later than nine months before the end of the five-year period. the delegation of power shall be tacitly extended for periods of an identical duration, unless the parliament or the council opposes such extension not later than three months before the end of each period. such a restriction brings more parliamentary control and prevents overburdening the legislator. finally, i am opposed to the final amendment and support the original commission proposal which facilitates the implementation of the common commercial policy.
written. - as the commission has committed itself to align legislation with the post-lisbon regime of implementing and delegated powers, it has become necessary to amend the community statistics regulation, in fact the only regulation within the eu's common commercial policy that calls for a regulatory procedure with scrutiny. the common commercial policy of the european union is of particular importance as it encompasses and defines the european community's bilateral relations with third countries and it is therefore important that this legislation be as democratic as possible and that parliament, as the only democratically elected body of the union, has as much control over acts as possible. that is why i agree with the commission's proposal, except in two cases where the commission proposes the principle of the implementing act. i share the rapporteur's view here that these implementing acts could lead to situations where the commission decides on general acts without parliament's participation. this is acceptable only when dealing with specific cases, but not for acts relating to general situations, and i am in favour of the use of implementing acts in such cases. increasing the democratic legitimacy of our common trade policy is particularly important for croatia, which has withdrawn from existing free trade agreements and aligned its legislation and customs policy with that of the european union in order to join the european union.
written. - i have a negative opinion of the report. i believe that the eu is seeking to develop relations with non-member countries not only through external trade but also through a number of other channels such as environmental protection, various scientific research, the fight against illegal drugs and the like, but more effort can and must be put into each of the activities just mentioned. the eu also runs a number of programmes to help non-member countries in the balkans, the middle east, the mediterranean and the caucasus to strengthen their democratic systems, economies and market economies to the greatest extent possible, and it is clear that there is much room for improvement in this area too. the eu remains the most important market for croatian products, accounting for almost 60% of total exports. however, cefta countries are also of great importance for croatian exports, croatia exported goods to these countries with a total value of eur 15,4 billion, and among them the most outstanding is neighbouring bosnia and herzegovina, to which we exported goods with a total value of eur 1,374 billion, representing almost 19% of total bosnian imports in 2013. in conclusion, there is still room for significant progress and we must act in that direction.
written. - at a time when timely access to and efficient use of information has important geostrategic implications, europe must be able to assess independently the impact of its policies and actions. the copernicus satellite infrastructure will allow us to do that in part. the programme is a continuation of the gmes (global montoring for environment and security) project and will give us the ability to, inter alia, observe the earth's surface from orbit for the purpose of collecting information on natural and other disasters and coordinating efforts to mitigate their consequences. in addition, copernicus can be used for urban planning as well as for monitoring the effects of the common agricultural policy. some of the objections relate to the budget being reduced by 35% and the way the programme is managed involving the european space agency, a body which is not part of the eu. nevertheless, i support this report because, in addition to creating jobs, it will bring undeniable benefits to the union and its citizens in the future.
in writing. - the copernicus programme is part of the broader investment strategy on the innovation and research spending chapters that are at the heart of the european programming 2014-2020. supporting european research and encouraging it to rely increasingly on our excellence, giving it the tools it needs to be able to make the most of its capabilities and contribute to the development and growth of the eu, is our top priority.
written. - i support this report because copernicus, together with galileo, represents a great opportunity for the eu to provide information about our environment, monitor climate change, improve civil security, encourage investment by foreign companies and thus create new jobs, and stimulate innovation and growth. the copernicus programme shall be implemented in accordance with the principles of the union's policy on climate change and the union's policy on the environment. studies show that copernicus could generate financial benefits of approximately eur 30 billion by 2030 and create approximately 50 000 jobs. the copernicus programme should be implemented in a manner that ensures that the copernicus system is fully operational and that the copernicus system is fully operational. the copernicus programme establishes the basis for the organisation of a single european earth observation system. the european commission's proposal marks the beginning of the operational phase of satellite deployment, and the primary objective is to benefit european citizens in various areas, especially in environmental and climate change issues, which is why i supported this report.
written. - i supported this draft resolution because the copernicus programme contributes to environmental monitoring and protection and supports civil protection and security. in order to achieve those objectives, the programme should build on the union's capability to conduct space observations and provide operational services in those areas on its own. because this is a very large project, and when we talk about funding it, the amount of funding available for it should not be exceeded. in the case of additional costs, any increase in the union contribution shall not be to the detriment, i.e. the cost of financing other programmes. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this regulation.
written. - i support the copernicus programme which aims to provide environmental information and to monitor natural or man-made disasters. recent events, not only in europe, where for example croatia was hit by severe floods, but also on a global scale, confirm the need for a satellite navigation system that will give us access to information about climate change. copernicus is the successor to gmes (global monitoring for environment and security), the 1998 earth monitoring initiative by the partnership between the eu, the member states and the european space agency (esa). i agree that the programme should make maximum use of the space observation capacities and services of the member states. it is also important to note that copernicus will help to organise urban planning and agriculture more efficiently. in addition to the many positive effects, some 50 000 new jobs can be expected over the period 2015-2030, which is why i would like to reiterate my support for this programme.
written. - i supported the report by the prodi mp on the copernicus programme 2014-2020 which is also being renamed gmes (global monitoring for environment and security). in short, this programme establishes the infrastructure as a basis for the organisation of a single european earth observation system. the amount of assigned revenue in accordance with article 21 (3) of the financial regulation is estimated at eur 100000. the allocation of this financial envelope to gmes demonstrates its importance and, in line with the europe 2020 strategy, contributes to the achievement of smart and sustainable development by developing a smart space policy to address key global shifts and take steps towards climate change and sustainable energy objectives. i believe it is equally necessary to establish a distribution network of copernicus data collected by national and regional bodies to encourage local authorities and smes to use earth observation technologies. however, caution is needed in determining the meaning of an appropriate data availability policy, taking into account strategic and economic considerations, not to impair to a large extent the competitiveness of european industry and thus to preserve the proper functioning of the internal market.
written. - natural disasters are becoming more frequent in both developed and developing countries, and in 2013 alone, they claimed tens of thousands of lives and left millions homeless. in addition to destroying lives, they destroy infrastructure and government budgets. i also believe that they pose a long-term threat to international peace and security. recently, we have witnessed an increasing number of natural disasters in croatia: numerous avalanches, avalanches and floods cause material damage to citizens and destroy our economy. in the last such case, in gorsky kotar, the damage from heavy ice and snow on the electricity supply system is estimated at a minimum of 50 million kuna. the copernicus programme, formerly known as gmes (global monitoring for environment and security), provides for the monitoring of the state of the environment on land, at sea and in the atmosphere, and i strongly support it. the program provides information on climate change and thus increases the security of all mankind. the launch and operation of a series of satellites is crucial for monitoring and understanding the dynamics of our planet's movement, enabling significant progress in improving maritime safety and providing timely support in emergency and crisis situations. the programme promotes the work of related sectors such as tourism, agriculture, local and regional planning, health, transport and many others.
written. - i supported this report because the international dimension of the copernicus programme is of paramount importance in the exchange of data and information, as well as in access to the monitoring infrastructure. such a system of exchange is more cost-effective than the collection of new data and strengthens the global dimension of the programme. in order to achieve its objectives, copernicus should rely on the union's autonomous space-based surveillance capabilities and provide operational services in the field of environment, civil protection and security. the commission should also use all available internal information provided by member states. the copernicus programme should be managed by the commission, which should be responsible for the overall management of copernicus. this should also include specific efforts to raise public awareness of the importance and pervasiveness of space programmes in our daily lives.
the european gnss agency is responsible, among other projects, for the implementation of the galileo global navigation satellite system. it is the regulatory agency for eu policy and manages a range of activities relating to european satellite positioning and navigation programmes, the most important of which are galileo and egnos. the agency shall ensure that the european satellite system is successfully commercialized and operated and that it meets all safety criteria. the agency also manages research in the field of satellite navigation, promotes applications and services for navigation and certifies system components. i support the commission's proposal, and therefore the report by mrs sartori, for greater independence in the safety accreditation aspect of the eu's satellite navigation programmes. i also feel it necessary to emphasise that the proposed amendment will create new jobs for additional technical staff, which in the current crisis is a measure worth supporting.
written. - i supported the report by my colleague sartori expressing her concerns about the proposed budgetary changes to the gsa. the multiannual financial framework allocates eur 200,2 million for the period 2014-2020, which represents a budget of 2[nbsp ]% less than the commission's initial proposal for the successful operation of the agency. the security accreditation board, an independent body of the agency whose role is to improve and implement security criteria, design the infrastructure resulting from the galileo and egnos programmes, is given greater powers by the commission regulation to ensure the independence of the council's work and the other activities of the agency. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and to monitor the implementation of the new rules and regulations, including the implementation of the new rules on the protection of personal data, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and regulations on the protection of personal data.
- the european global navigation system agency (gnss) manages a number of operations in the field of the european satellite positioning and navigation programme. it shall enable the member states to benefit from all the benefits of galileo and egnos through its expertise and knowledge. i believe that these systems contribute significantly to economic growth and create new jobs which we need most in croatia today and therefore i support this regulation. today, navigation services are becoming a part of our daily lives and are of vital importance to european transport and industry. satellite systems also make a major contribution to the development of sectors such as agriculture, transport, telecommunications, environmental protection, fisheries and many others. the agency, with the help of the european commission, is working on a number of activities to help entrepreneurs (especially smes, business incubators and similar projects) to inform themselves and to make the most of the benefits of galileo and egnos. i believe that it is the entrepreneurial incubators that create a positive entrepreneurial climate among young people in croatia because they develop business ideas, increase competence and competitiveness and enable self-employment of young people.
written. - i supported the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the implementation and use of european satellite navigation systems and on the public management of programmes for the period 2014-2020, replacing regulation (ec) no 683/2008. it assigns overall responsibility for the programmes to the commission and makes it responsible for the security of the programmes, including the security of the systems and their operation. the scope of the tasks entrusted to the european gnss agency is also extended and it is envisaged that the agency will play a major role in the use of the systems and in maximising their socio-economic benefits. in addition, in the interest of preserving the independence of the security accreditation board and avoiding any conflict of interest, it is essential that the security accreditation board and the agency's staff under its supervision carry out their work in an autonomous and independent manner from the other activities of the agency, in particular with regard to the operational activities related to the use of those systems.
mr president, the eastern partnership project represents a very important opportunity to secure strategic objectives for the european union. first of all, a high-quality political and economic access to the eastern partnership countries is an opportunity to defend the vital energy and security interests of the european union. i would like to stress the importance of observing the democratic transition processes in the eastern partnership countries and of continuing to provide support to these countries. i draw attention to the contemporary national challenges that are emerging in the countries of eastern europe, particularly in moldova and ukraine, where there are forces working to develop the rule of law and democracy. i expect the european union to continue to support the legitimately elected representatives of the citizens and to open the democratic european path to eastern partnership countries that show a willingness to cooperate.
mr president, as a member of the european parliament's delegation for relations with the eastern partnership countries, i naturally support this report. i consider it important that this report condemns the continuing pressure exerted by the russian federation on the eastern partnership countries by various political, economic and military means. such pressure, particularly because it is motivated by irrational political fears of the european union, adversely affects the democratic processes in developing countries. it is our duty and obligation to continue to provide the maximum support to the eastern partnership countries in their journey towards full democratisation, the rule of law and the development of a free and open civil society, which can only flourish fully in a dynamic and mature democratic environment. our message to russia and the world should be: the european union is always for peace, economic prosperity and democratic development. that is why we are helping the eastern partnership countries in a practical way, facilitating trade with them, helping them on their way to energy independence, liberalizing the visa regime and allowing the free movement of citizens in these countries. it's the key to success. let us be as actively involved as possible in their development and progress.
mr president, i believe that our colleague mr kowal, on his own initiative, has put the eu's policy priorities towards the eastern partnership countries in the spotlight at the right time. i have said in this house and before the vilnius summit that the key aspect is precisely the relationship between the union and these few countries, the question of the real prospect of membership of the union, article 49. it is now in this resolution, and a few days ago in the resolution on ukraine. there is a key, i would say, to that one soft belly of the european union and on the other side of the close neighborhood of moscow that leads to conflict between russia and the european union. the situation in ukraine has escalated, the scenario that is happening in crimea is very similar to what croatia experienced in the early 90s from serbia. we have a precedent, we have a solution for this policy. it is important that we are firm and determined, that we use the mechanisms of the eastern partnership for politics and for economics and for democracy and for energy security.
in writing. - the eastern partnership summit in vilnius at the end of the 2009-2014 eu legislature is a very important reflection point, especially in this difficult period of economic transition. in this sense, the crisis must not be a constraint but an incentive to look beyond mere political commitment and to implement concrete initiatives aimed at achieving tangible results. the european parliament must therefore present an ambitious proposal, showing the eu's openness and commitment to developing the european project by focusing on young people and cooperation with the eastern partnership countries.
written. - the aim of the eastern partnership is to protect, promote and share the values on which the european union is founded. respect for international law, democratic principles, fundamental freedoms and human rights, independent legislation, the principles of a market economy, and sustainable growth and development are the fundamental values on which the european union was founded. i therefore supported the priority statement for the union's relations with the eastern partnership countries, providing further support to their citizens and measures that will bring tangible results (such as the introduction of a visa-free regime) and cooperation in the field of energy. ukraine, moldova, belarus, georgia, azerbaijan and armenia represent transition countries which lag behind in both economic and social standards and therefore need to be supported and show a clear european perspective.
written. - i supported this report because i consider it extremely important to make efforts to strengthen relations with the eastern partnership countries and to review the measures and framework for maintaining them. i therefore agree that evaluating effectiveness and evaluating successes and failures is key to establishing an appropriate approach. recent developments in some of the eastern partnership countries have highlighted the fragility of the political and economic process and the process of social integration. strengthening cooperation with civil society is therefore crucial in promoting social change, which is playing an increasing role in our times. furthermore, i consider it important to liberalise the visa regime in order to open the doors to the union and its fundamental principles and values, and as an active promoter of the erasmus+ programme, i would like to highlight the importance of investing in youth projects to encourage student exchanges and thus the intercultural understanding that we so badly need in these times. it is also necessary to promote a more positive influence on the younger generations in order to bridge the gap of the past in the future.
written. - the eu needs a serious, honest debate on the future of the eastern partnership on the basis of a green paper being drawn up by the european commission as a basis for it. in the context of recent events, i support the fact that the contents of this report have been placed on the agenda. the eu should strengthen its engagement in terms of a single, coordinated voice as far as possible only when it concretely defines priorities in its relations with its neighbours. in doing so, member states must overcome divergent interests to enable the eu to create an effective policy. the commission should also be able to provide the necessary information to the member states and the commission on the implementation of the union's energy policy. it is time for the eu's policy towards the eastern partnership countries to become a policy of action, not reaction.
written. - i commend this proposal, and i support it. this document encourages a bold political approach to the development of the eastern partnership and opens the way for new ideas. so the european parliament needs to present an ambitious proposal that shows our openness and commitment to the european project. at the time of the launch of the eastern partnership initiative, it was not an initiative to enlarge the eu to include armenia, georgia, moldova and other eastern partnership countries, but to establish a special relationship of the eu on its eastern border. significant progress has been made in many areas, but stagnation is evident in some. i welcome all the european parliament resolutions concerning the eastern partnership countries, but the events in ukraine and in some other partner countries are a clear sign that some countries have made a big step towards the eu and others have not. it is also important to highlight the strong internal divisions with citizens who do not agree with their country's european orientation. at the same time, it is necessary to ask how to maintain a partnership that implies strong economic cooperation while on the other side there is a divided society and the strong influence of the russian federation.
written. - the european neighbourhood policy (enp), particularly in relation to the eastern european partnership countries, is based on a commitment to international law and fundamental values and the principles of freedom, democracy, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, the rule of law, a market economy, sustainable development and good governance. the eastern european partnership is by no means aimed at jeopardising bilateral relations with the russian federation, on the contrary, it is open to cooperation with moscow with the aim of establishing the most favourable conditions for the sustainable growth of a common neighbourhood. there is a need to enrich the strategic nature of the eastern european partnership and to recommend the flexible use of the tools available to the eu, such as macro-economic assistance, trade facilitation, security enhancement and economic modernisation projects and the rapid application of the visa regime, in line with european values and interests. it is stressed that mechanisms for the exchange of students and pupils between eu countries and the partnership member states should be organised and encouraged. it is considered that the difficulties that characterize the promotion and implementation of the eastern partnership can be overcome by a re-balanced and reinforced eu engagement that goes beyond political dialogue, with which i fully agree. that's why i voted yes.
mr president, the transatlantic dialogue is crucial to achieving the common goal of providing citizens of both partners with a more secure future. but we must not forget the importance of the foundations on which cooperation is built, which have been significantly undermined by recent events. first of all, there is concern that mass surveillance operations may be used for reasons not strictly related to national security. therefore, we must not look for reasons for not implementing consequential and preventive measures. in this respect, i supported the steps presented in the report and i welcome the efforts made by the rapporteur, mr moraes. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the eu's new rules on the protection of personal data. in addition, it is important to distinguish between data that are primarily necessary for the protection of the security of citizens and other data whose possession violates their fundamental rights. so let's ask ourselves what kind of society we want to live in and whether security is really achievable only at the high cost of our privacy.
written. one of the fundamental rights of the modern age is the right to privacy. just as we do not allow the police to unreasonably enter our home in search of possible evidence, we should not allow our communications to be unreasonably monitored and recorded by a third party. the mass accumulation of private data by any government is a clear violation of our rights and must stop. the european union as a champion of human rights should send a clear message to the united states. although intelligence services also enjoy special powers in democratic societies because of their special role in protecting the fundamental rights of citizens and the state, i agree that most of the existing eu surveillance bodies still lack democratic legitimacy. in the spirit of the long-standing positive relationship between the union and the united states, i hope that in the light of these developments, appropriate reforms and revisions of the privacy laws in the us legislation will nevertheless be implemented, and that lost trust will be restored in the foreseeable future, and that we will continue our historic and strategic partnership as allies rather than rivals. i would like to take this opportunity to commend the 'european digital habeas corpus' programme for the protection of fundamental rights in the digital age and to stress the importance of implementing its basic provisions.
written. i support the motion for a resolution on the surveillance program of the united states national security agency. the increasing focus on security, combined with technological developments, has allowed member states to know more about their citizens than ever before. with new capabilities to collect data on the content of communications and to monitor citizens' electronic activities, particularly their use of smartphones and tablet computers, intelligence services are de facto able to know almost everything about a person. this has contributed to a fundamental shift in the work and practice of intelligence agencies, from the traditional concept of targeted surveillance as a necessary counterterrorism measure, to mass surveillance systems. however, this process of increased mass surveillance has not been the subject of prior public debate or democratic decision-making. the commission has also proposed that the data protection rules be amended to include the right to privacy. the security measures, including those against terrorism, must be implemented through the rule of law and must be subject to obligations linked to fundamental rights, including those relating to privacy and data protection. i support this proposal and reiterate that a balance needs to be struck between security measures and the protection of civil liberties and fundamental rights while ensuring full respect for privacy and data protection.
written. - i fully understand the unease and distrust that has arisen over the case of unauthorized surveillance of european citizens by the us national security agency. i believe we must ensure the greatest possible protection of our citizens from such violations of their rights. however, i do not agree with the approach advocated by the rapporteur. in particular, the commission considers that the recommendation on the development and promotion of european search engines and social networks is completely missing as it does not correspond to the reality in the modern technology sector. the it sector is a global driving force and any attempt by the eu to close its shell and target local service providers, aside from sounding ridiculous, would very quickly prove to be very unsuccessful. until the union strengthens its security capacity, i believe we will not win the full confidence of our american partners. attempts to blackmail the us politically and influence the global character of the it sector will not help, they can only delay.
the 2013 state of the judiciary focuses exclusively on civil, commercial and administrative justice and should include criminal justice as the functioning and integrity of the criminal justice system has a significant impact on fundamental rights. the quality, independence and efficiency of justice systems are among the eu's priorities in the area of freedom, security and justice and respect for fundamental values, including the rule of law. there is a need for a consistent and comprehensive approach to justice, as cross-border offenders should not exploit differences between the criminal justice systems of the member states. the establishment of the criminal justice situation analysis will make a fundamental contribution to the general understanding of eu criminal law among judges and prosecutors, thus strengthening mutual trust. the real objective of the justice scoreboard is to collect and analyse statistical data in order to help member states develop their national justice systems. i stress that comparing data in the field of criminal law is a complex task due to the significant differences between national legal systems and that criminal law cannot always be assessed using statistically measurable parameters. the independence of the judiciary and of judges and prosecutors in the member states must be protected from political interference.
written. - i do not support the report on the evaluation of the judiciary in terms of criminal law and the rule of law by rapporteur kinga gnöcz. i hereby express my regret that the proposal for a methodology for assessing the judiciary in the manner proposed in the report has been found on the agenda of the plenary session for who knows what time, and given that the views mentioned have already been repeatedly presented to members and rejected. i support any effort and intention to objectively raise the standards in the judiciary, to valorise and professionalize them but only in a way that implies an impartial assessment by the relevant institutions that will not compromise the principle of the separation of powers. the mechanism proposed in the report may lead to the politicisation and duplication of the protection of fundamental rights which are hitherto inherently within the competence of the european court of justice and the european court of human rights. the commission has also provided a number of studies on the impact of the criminal justice system on the criminal justice system in the member states. it can be achieved by other methods than those advocated in the report because there is a well-founded fear that this method will have a counter-effect.
written. - the independence and efficiency of judicial systems are priorities on the european union's agenda and i have therefore supported this report. i would point out that the fundamental problems facing the judiciary in the member states are the excessive length of judicial proceedings and the questionable independence of the judiciary. i believe it is essential that judges and prosecutors are protected from political and media interference, and that crisis situations are resolved more quickly. it is necessary to approximate the legislative frameworks in the member states in order to prevent perpetrators from taking advantage of the differences in the criminal justice systems of the member states by crossing borders. the commission has also identified a number of areas where the criminal justice system is likely to be affected by the new criminal law. in order to contribute to the joint evaluation, member states should regularly collect and provide impartial, reliable, objective and comparable data on their justice systems. the evaluation enables the use of best practice, strengthens mutual trust between member states, cooperation and a common understanding of eu legislation.
written. - i support any attempt to improve the european judiciary and thereby create a single system of the european area of justice. this strengthens the judicial policy which aims to strengthen the foundations of the eu. in doing so, it is essential to assess taking into account the civil, commercial and administrative judiciary and the criminal justice system, as they have an impact on the fundamental rights deriving from european citizenship. i have already supported programmes such as the rights and citizenship programme, the 2014-2020 justice programme and the report on the analysis of the state of eu justice in the field of civil and administrative law in the member states, because i believe that it is of the utmost importance to have an efficient and unified judiciary throughout the eu in order to be able to face the increasingly difficult challenges ahead. our citizens must feel equally safe in every corner of the union and must be held to the same principles of human rights and non-discrimination.
written. - criminal justice should remain within the national legislation and competence of the member states as the 2013 judiciary review focuses exclusively on civil, commercial and administrative justice, which are relevant to the european semester in terms of fostering competition and growth, and does not cover criminal justice, which has a much more national dimension. the objective of the justice scoreboard should be to collect and analyse statistical data in order to help member states develop their national justice systems. in line with the epp's position, i believe that it is important to continuously strengthen and improve the european system for the protection of fundamental human rights, but this report carries a dose of risk of being counterproductive for eu citizens. the mechanisms proposed in this report could lead to duplication and politicisation of the fundamental rights protection system, for example by giving powers to the commission and parliament in the area of human rights protection. the system of protection of fundamental human rights should remain in the hands of judicial bodies, such as the european court of justice and the european court of human rights. the republic of croatia has a constitution and a legal system which are independent of the judiciary, and the legislative and executive branches are cautious in assessing their work, both in the field of civil, commercial and administrative law and in the field of criminal justice. i do not support the report.
written. - it is of the utmost importance to recognise the need for the commission and the european parliament to fully respect the limits of the european union's competence in the field of criminal law, which would ultimately imply that any future activities would be carried out exclusively in accordance with the treaties and in consultation with the member states. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. of course, differences between member states are due to parameters that cannot be compared to obtain statistically measurable data and should therefore be treated with particular care. the activities of the european court of human rights are also of great importance. the court of justice is the principal body responsible for deciding on fundamental rights and the rule of law, and its task is to provide a framework for the protection of the rights of individuals. finally, i base my positive opinion on the notion of the rule of law as a broad concept requiring public authorities to act in accordance with the legal framework established by national constitutions and the laws and regulations deriving from them, which must not be limited to criminal law. the commission should also be able to assess the effectiveness of the criminal justice system in the light of the principles of the rule of law and the rule of law-based approaches.
written. - i oppose the rapporteur's proposal that the commission extend its powers to the judiciary (which encompass civil, commercial and administrative law) and to criminal law, as i consider that the invitation infringes the principle of subsidiarity and unnecessarily interferes with the competences of the member states of the union. the commission's call to broaden the scope of its analysis of the judiciary in such a way that it becomes separate and comprehensive, i.e. to assess all areas of the judiciary and all issues related to the judiciary, such as the independence, efficiency and integrity of the judiciary, i consider to be a highly pretentious, disproportionate and risky call that will easily create confusion and thus harm the efficiency of the entire system.
written. - convergence means innovation. convergence requires new forms of cooperation between enterprises and sectors. the aim of this cooperation is to enable the user to use audiovisual content and electronic services anywhere, at any time and on any device. as a member of the group of the party of european socialists, i call for non-discriminatory, transparent and open access to the internet for all users and providers of audiovisual services in the union. i believe it is essential that cultural and audiovisual works in their diversity should be accessible to all european citizens. citizens must be able to find what interests them, in particular when producers, network operators and content providers or other aggregators dictate the choice of content offered to users. i am of the opinion that the search and retrieval of audiovisual content in order to ensure the diversity of the offer should not be based solely on economic interests. the need for regulatory action should only be present in the event that the platform provider exploits a dominant market position or a gatekeeper function to favour or disregard certain content. i wholeheartedly support this report.
in writing. - globalisation and the change in market structures are leading to a change in media policy, which is no longer considered to be a strictly national competence. the availability and access to audiovisual services for the public are major issues in a converging world and this is why europe must continue its path towards the merger of traditional broadcasting and internet services. the net neutrality remains a guarantee for the non-discriminatory distribution of all content and is therefore the principle of the broadcasting of the convergent media world in the 21st century.
written. - i supported this report which represents progress in the form of convergence of audiovisual content. new legislation is necessary provided that the means of european competition law and cartel law are used for access to content and access control and that a regulatory framework adapted to convergence is established. the commission should also be able to use the information provided by the member states to support the development of the audiovisual sector in the union. in view of the increasing convergence, it is important in the republic of croatia to develop new directions for understanding the way in which audiovisual media, electronic services and applications interact with each other in order to be more economically efficient. the aim must be to balance the interests of all stakeholders across all media and industries and to provide greater flexibility.
written. - as we now watch tv on our 'smartphones' and check our e-mails on our tv receivers, it is clear that the boundaries between electronic media are disappearing. i therefore believe it is important to regulate the environment for these changes, i.e. to determine what the convergence of audiovisual media means for economic growth, competition, innovation and consumers, and that is why i supported this report. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 concerning the definition of the concept of 'originating products' and the definition of the concept of 'originating products' and the definition of the concept of 'originating products' and the definition of the concept of 'originating products'. i also think it is important that the report takes account of the journalism sector and media houses that are losing their sources of advertising revenue and encourages member states to help them financially. the benefits of convergence are matched by the challenges to be addressed. first of all, i would like to stress the need to protect children from inappropriate media content and to protect personal data. we live in an age of information super-high speed, new ways of collecting, processing and using personal data. the protection of privacy and personal data is a fundamental human right and we must fight to ensure that it is not violated. we need to do more to raise citizens' awareness of their right to privacy and ways to ensure it and at the same time work to eradicate the misuse of personal data.
written. - an important reason for the convergence of the audiovisual world is the rapid growth of digital technology, and in particular the development of non-linear interactive media such as the internet, which has in some ways taken over the role of former television and radio receivers. the development of mobile devices and their increasing usability also opens up additional media space. in expressing our position on new technologies, it is important to understand the dual nature of new media not only as a cultural but also as an economic good. unlike other media, the internet is much less regulated and by its nature decentralised, which brings new freedoms of expression and more transparent communication, but also new challenges in protecting consumers and youngest internet users. in this context, it is important to consider how we will ensure the financing and production of high-quality european audiovisual content, bearing in mind all the advantages and disadvantages of new media. i therefore welcome this report on preparing for the full convergence of the audiovisual world.
written. - given the importance and timeliness of the subject, i welcome the commission's initiative to open up the audiovisual policy field in the context of harmonising and broadening access to different content in europe through a broad public debate on the implications for economic growth, employment and innovation at eu level. already, millions of users are watching their favourite tv series on their smartphones, uploading content they have generated themselves online, or watching online content in their living rooms via television screens, indicating the likely direction of the audiovisual market evolution towards convergence. i welcome the report by mrs verheyen, which effectively points out the important segments to be taken care of. i believe that one of the central objectives of the european parliament in the area of convergence of the audiovisual world should be the promotion of european cultures and, inextricably linked to this, the protection of the interests of citizens and their fundamental interests, and in particular the protection of minors and other vulnerable groups. i supported the report by mrs verheyen because it contributes to finding potential long-term solutions at political and regulatory level, in particular with regard to making the internet more child-friendly and to the area of media freedom and pluralism.
written. - the electronic communications market is undergoing significant changes and technological developments that will have a significant impact on the market in the near future. the introduction of next-generation networks (3g, 4g) is the first step towards convergent networks and, as stated in the green paper, all developments must be geared towards making technologies available to end-users anytime, anywhere and on any device. we are aware that in order to make this work, the first step is that national regulatory authorities must enable all types of interconnection. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and to monitor the implementation of the new rules and regulations. i would also stress that similar content on the same device requires a single and flexible legal framework that is user-centred and accessed in a way that is technology neutral, transparent and enforceable. the commission has also received comments from the croatian authorities, which have not provided any evidence to support its view that the measure is necessary to ensure the proper functioning of the market. i support this proposal because it applies to all eu member states, including croatia.
written. - it is estimated that there are currently more than 40 million tv sets with internet connectivity (connected tv) in europe, and that by 2016 they will be in most households. the increasing trend of horizontal concentration in industry and vertical concentration in the value chain can open up new business opportunities but also lead to dominant positions in the market. convergence means that people can enjoy a wider choice of available content - but it can also create certain disruptions and challenges in existing systems and business models. while i support many of the positive aspects of the strategy of innovation and technological convergence of audiovisual services, i would like to highlight the consequences this could have on the traditional media sectors, i.e. regional and local media, especially in the member states where minority languages are spoken in the european union. the conditions should therefore be created and maintained to enable them to continue to provide services of public interest in order to support linguistic and cultural diversity and to protect the pluralism of information. as stated, i abstained.
written. - the recent introduction of civic education in schools in croatia has shown how much educational subjects of this kind are missing. children are unaware of what 'citizenship' means, let alone what rights it confers. i therefore welcome this report, which confirms the importance of education in the realisation of citizens' rights. the commission has also provided a number of comments on the application of the principle of equal treatment for men and women in the area of employment, vocational training and promotion. i therefore welcome the establishment of the europe direct information service and the your europe portal. i also believe it is essential to provide information in all the official languages of the european union. the report also stresses the importance of volunteer work. volunteering is of utmost importance in times of political, economic and environmental crises that we face every day. volunteering encourages social activism, which is essential for achieving social progress. i am pleased to note that volunteering is on the rise in croatia. the 2012 annual report on voluntary activities shows a 20[nbsp ]% increase in volunteers and volunteer hours compared to the previous reporting period.
written. - the rights of citizens of the european union derive from the common agreement of the member states to commit themselves to the fundamental values on which the european union is built. it is very important to make citizens aware of their rights because i believe that not all citizens of the european union are sufficiently aware of the rights and benefits that the union brings them. the european union institutions must ensure that the european union's added value for them is fully recognisable. the construction of a european civic identity must not be at the expense of national identity. the real value of european citizenship should be recognised in the equal rights enjoyed by all citizens of the european union, such as freedom of movement, the transfer of goods and capital, the possibility of taking initiatives at european level, etc. we have a big role in defining these rights for citizens because the ones who should benefit most from everything are the young. a programme such as erasmus is the best example of the degree of mobility available to young people and its popularity among them. they are the ones who will live the ideas and values that we're talking about today.
in writing. - active involvement of the public in the life of the european parliament is one of the pillars of citizenship of the union, which creates an interface between citizens and the european institutions. all member states are committed to respecting the eu rules agreed by common accord on the right to move and reside freely within the union, on non-discrimination and on the common values of the european union, with particular attention to the rights of persons belonging to minorities. the aim is to promote cooperation between citizens and civil society organisations in the various countries, so as to encourage interaction and activity in a european environment that respects diversity. parliament, in this context, represents the gateway for citizens to the european house and is, as such, the spokesman for their demands through its democratically elected representatives.
written. - this year's eu citizenship report presents 12 new initiatives divided into 6 key areas to improve the application of the rights of european citizens. the pilot project will also provide a platform for the exchange of information on the implementation of the european year of the environment and the european year of the environment, and will provide a platform for the exchange of information on the implementation of the european year of the environment and the european year of the environment. that is why i supported the 2013 eu citizenship report.
written. - as a supporter of the civil rights and fundamental freedoms that are the backbone of the european union, i believe that discrimination on grounds of nationality has no place in this community and that is why i supported this report. it presents a concrete case of widespread discrimination against roma and i am very pleased that the report calls on member states to contribute to tackling it, a problem i have raised in the european parliament before. now, of course, concrete steps must be taken towards the full integration of roma into the political life of the european union. the report also addresses the issue of discrimination against citizens exercising their right to vote in local and european elections in the eu outside their home countries. as the european parliament elections approach, it is very important to remove these obstacles and to inform citizens about their right to vote in any eu country. i am very pleased that the report emphasises the need for education on eu-related policy issues, as education is key to understanding and participating in political life.
written. - i fully support this report because i believe that the treaty of lisbon reaffirms the guarantee that the european union provides its citizens in respect of human rights, democratic principles, solidarity and security. in doing so, it is our role in parliament to reflect on the problems facing the union and to take account of the moral aspects and the impact on citizens of certain of our decisions and policies. the challenges we face in relation to eu citizenship are growing, and parliament must ensure that no one is a second-class citizen. this is why we need to reduce and simplify bureaucracy so that all citizens can fully enjoy the rights they have in theory, such as the freedom to move and work in other countries. mobility must become almost a kind of obligation that universities across the eu should take advantage of to create the future european union's connective tissue of young and educated people. the use of all official languages should also be improved to reach their full capacity.
written. - i supported the citizenship report by mr salavrakos, which aims to improve communication between eu citizens and the institutions and their rights through 12 new measures in 6 areas. the european parliament calls on member states to increase their activities in this area through the availability of public consultations in all the eu's official languages, programmes such as solvit and the promotion of the recognition of volunteering. it is important to highlight the important democratic instrument through which citizens of its member states can legitimately address the european parliament, namely the referral of petitions to the committee on petitions. furthermore, each member state should ensure the principle of a 'one-stop-shop' institution to coordinate cross-border projects and in line with this i support the 2 new programmes adopted under the new mff 'law, unity and citizenship' and 'europe for citizens' for which eur 389,20 million and eur 164,28 million are allocated. it is important to underline the importance of this report in the light of the forthcoming elections, which are the first elections after the adoption of the treaty of lisbon and represent an opportunity to strengthen public confidence in the political system and to strengthen democracy. croatia is one of many countries that has been hit by a serious economic and social crisis. i support the continued funding of education as it is crucial to empowering citizens to participate fully in democratic, social and cultural life.
written. - i have an affirmative opinion of the report in question and as such i support it. in particular, as the representative of the youngest member of the european union, i consider particularly important the implementation of activities aimed at raising citizens' awareness of their rights, given the fact that the republic of croatia has undergone a transition period during the process of accession to the european union where citizens are presented with a lot of information that, in essence, is not simply understandable and requires additional efforts in the implementation itself. given that the internet, as the fastest growing medium, reaches the end user primarily through social networks that are becoming an indispensable part of our daily lives, i decided to follow the trends and share all my activities through them, where i clearly get feedback that citizens accept this model of communication and have a positive opinion about my efforts. i am therefore convinced that other members of parliament should also pay more attention to this model of interaction. i also welcome all efforts to strengthen the democratic involvement of citizens in the governance of the european union, since i see my role as a member of the european parliament primarily as a duty to the voters who have placed their trust in me, and therefore any presentation of my work and commitment that i make every day is more than welcome.
written. - the european parliament's committee on petitions often reports on eu citizenship, and such reports rarely coincide with my views. i also did not support this report, because it contains many elements that unnecessarily encroach on the competences of the member states, such as encouraging member states to devote more space to political education in schools on eu affairs, calling for the creation of european association statutes and cuts in member states' budgets for the acquisition of eu citizenship.
written. - education is indeed one of the most important factors in enabling individuals to participate fully in democratic, social and cultural life. citizens do not enjoy all their rights in the eu because they do not know them, and member states have not done enough to prepare them and educate them on where they can learn their rights and how and when they can use them. citizens come to me every day with questions about the exercise of their rights and complain about the difficulty of finding such information. we must strive to make access to this information easy and fast for every eu citizen. i welcome the idea of including eu-related political topics in school curricula, as this is the only way to educate children in time about their political rights and obligations. i think that the adaptation and training of teachers is a process that would be costly for each member state, but there are wonderful young people who have the necessary new knowledge about the eu, who are educated, or have worked, or are working for the eu institutions.
mr president, i supported this interim report because i think that the idea of establishing a european public prosecutor's office as an additional means of combating fraud and ultimately of protecting taxpayers is good at its core. however, as we have seen in the debate, the challenges facing this proposal are multiple and must be addressed seriously. the eppo should be able to provide the necessary legal assistance to the eppo in the event of a dispute between the eppo and the eppo. furthermore, as many countries are facing problems in the judiciary, a clear framework regulating national and european powers in order to respect the principle of subsidiarity, but also to ensure a harmonised functioning at both levels, is of paramount importance. the establishment of the office will therefore contribute to improving criminal law standards and the transparency of the judiciary, but we must be aware that much more work is needed to achieve this goal.
mr president, i also believe that this report by mr iaciolino is a valuable contribution to what has been in the works for several years since the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, namely the establishment of a european public prosecutor's office on the basis of article 86, primarily with a view to more effective protection of the financial interests of the european union against criminal offences. the european parliament and the council shall be informed of the progress of the work of the eppo in the field of the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing. this report, which contributes to the adoption of the regulation, is a step in that direction. i also believe that we must take into account certain signals coming from the level of national parliaments, that is to say, in the procedure for consulting the member states in the context of the principle of subsidiarity, and that we must look carefully at the relationship between the competences of the european union and the national level, as regards criminal law.
written. - 10% of olaf's investigations concern cases of crossborder organised crime, but these cases account for 40% of the damage to the european union's financial interests. as crime is increasingly taking on a cross-border dimension, the eu must provide an effective response and implement budgetary protection at a common level. the european public prosecutor's office shall be established in accordance with the law of the member state in which the european public prosecutor's office is established. the european public prosecutor's office should be fully independent, both from national governments and from the eu institutions, and should be protected from any political pressure. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 concerning the establishment of the european data protection supervisor. i believe that further analysis of the parallel activities of olaf, eurojust and the eppo should be carried out in order to avoid conflicts of competence, but also to establish permanent close cooperation in order to make the best use of olaf's long experience in conducting investigations.
written. - having regard to the opinions of the committee on budgets, budgetary control and legal affairs of the european parliament, and in relation to the act in question, i support the interim report on the proposal for a council regulation on the establishment of the european public prosecutor's office. in view of the fact that 14 houses of parliament have activated the 'yellow crown' mechanism in relation to the commission's proposal, as clearly indicated in this report, i believe that parliament must actively follow the dialogue between the european institutions, and in terms of each legislative segment in the procedure for the creation of this institution. in order to implement the european public prosecutor's office successfully in the european legal order, three facts are in my view at issue. the european public prosecutor's office shall be responsible for the prosecution of all criminal offences in the member states, including the execution of the criminal proceedings. i say this because the criminal law in the european union is not unified, which means that an offence that is classified as a criminal offence in one member state does not necessarily mean that it is classified as a criminal offence in another member state, which can ultimately pose a problem for the proceedings. as this report takes account of the three aforementioned controversial provisions of the institute, i conclude by saying that i fully support it.
written. - i voted in favour of the report which aims to establish a european public prosecutor's office. the eppo shall be responsible for the implementation of the eppo's internal rules and procedures, including the rules on the protection of personal data. the structure should consist of a single body with two parts: (1) a central unit to supervise, coordinate and direct the investigations and the criminal programme carried out in the member states; (2) a european delegated prosecutor to conduct the investigation autonomously. the office should have a decentralised structure and legal personality, and its key feature should be independence.
written. - i support this report because i believe that the establishment of the european public prosecutor's office can strengthen the achievement of an area of freedom, security and justice in the european union. the fight against crime is one of the fundamental tasks to which the union is committed through police and judicial cooperation measures. the establishment of this office will help to combat fraud affecting the financial interests of the union. given that it is a matter of the common market, financial resources and interests, i consider it extremely important that all member states participate, since crimes unfortunately have a cross-border dimension. i consider particularly important the sections in the report that relate to the independence of the office vis-à-vis national governments and eu institutions, the need to define the scope of the office's competence, the importance of the annual activity report and the creation of rules for the protection of whistleblowers in the union. eu taxpayers put their money in trust in the union's common treasury, and we must do everything to justify that trust and do our utmost to protect their money.
written. - i have a positive opinion of the report. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council. it is unacceptable that all the malpractices connected with this issue go unnoticed by the authorities because of the various national bodies which deal with them. it is for the very reasons mentioned above that the union has the task of acting to create consistency and coordination in the procedures themselves, since investigations and prosecutions are not the same in all member states and therefore cannot have the same effect. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the prevention of and fight against money laundering and terrorist financing, in particular by ensuring that the union's financial interests are protected. as the european union has limited resources as a result of the financial crisis, i believe that common policies should be strengthened towards all individuals who infringe the union's budget in order to harmonise the criteria for sanctions and to eliminate the problem. it is clear that measures are already being taken to achieve this objective by establishing and strengthening many institutions, but we still face a number of problems that constitute a major obstacle to effective investigations and prosecutions of persons adversely affecting the financial interests of the union as a whole.
written. - the european public prosecutor's office will be responsible for investigating, prosecuting and charging crimes against the eu budget. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules on the application of this regulation. the office will coordinate and resolve complex cases with a cross-border dimension. in this way, they try to overcome the difficulties which arise as a result of the limited powers of the national authorities and which end where their territory ends. in view of the current complex situation of respect for the rule of law in the republic of croatia in the 'lex perković' case and the urgent need to amend the law on the application of arrest warrants, i agree with the need to establish a european public prosecutor's office. however, the new office is designed to take another step towards the federalisation of the eu; the federal european states would lose their sovereign decision-making rights on many economic, monetary, foreign, defence and other issues. i cannot agree with this development and have therefore abstained.
the european union supports the acceleration of reforms in the republic of turkey in accordance with the acquis of the european union. economic cooperation between the republic of turkey and the european union is important, and the fact that turkey is the sixth largest export country to the european union confirms this. in addition to economic cooperation, the european union stresses the importance of political reforms, which should be in line with european legislation. political reforms are needed to guarantee the europeanization of this country. i support mr stier's amendment and stress the importance of aligning the actions of the turkish authorities in south-east europe with the foreign policy of the european union, particularly in bosnia and herzegovina where there is a significant number of croats who are citizens of the european union. i support the report because i believe that the importance of the republic of turkey to the european union is indisputable, especially in economic relations, and that the political stability of that country is extremely important for the region of south-east europe.
mr. president, we have before us the progress report of turkey. i voted in favour of it today and i believe that turkey, which started accession negotiations on the same day as croatia, should continue along the european path, should continue along the path of reform, because that is good for both turkey and the european union. in this respect, we have seen progress during 2013 and new negotiating chapters have been reopened. i am particularly pleased that it is chapter 22 which deals with regional policy, which is extremely important. and in that sense, i believe that turkey will undertake reforms at the domestic level to strengthen the judicial system and to combat corruption and the functioning of all state institutions at a level that will allow it to further approach the european union, and of course this also includes the coordination of external political positions, especially when it comes to the neighboring areas of the european union, for example in bosnia and herzegovina.
written. - i have supported this report because i support the european commission's view that turkey has successfully met all the conditions in its enlargement strategy and programme over the past 12 months. turkey is a strategic partner of the european union in its economic and regional role and a valuable component of competitiveness in the member states. the commission has also provided a comprehensive overview of the measures taken by turkey to address the identified shortcomings and to address the identified shortcomings. the key is to continue to promote transparency and credibility in public administration. i welcome the signing of the agreement on the continuation of cooperation between turkey and the eu and the launch of the visa liberalisation dialogue. it is important to emphasise that the verification system that every democratic state has and which turkey needs to continue to work on also plays a key role.
written. - i welcome the efforts turkey is making to meet the eu's conditions. the eu-turkey negotiations were opened on 3 october 2005, opening the way for a long-term and open-ended process based on fair and rigorous conditions and a commitment to reform. turkey has committed itself to the copenhagen criteria, adequate and effective reforms, good neighbourly relations and gradual alignment with the eu, all with a view to further modernisation. it is important to note that turkey has not implemented the provisions stemming from the ec-turkey association agreement and its additional protocol for a year in a row and must additionally work to resolve outstanding bilateral issues, including outstanding legal obligations and disputes with immediate neighbours over land, sea and air borders, in accordance with the provisions of the un charter and international law. turkey has the potential to play a key role in increasing the diversity of energy sources and routes for the transit of oil, gas and electricity from neighbouring countries to the eu, and there is also the potential to benefit from turkey's abundant renewable energy sources with the eu to create a sustainable low-carbon economy. it is clear that there is increased turkish activity in south-eastern europe, particularly in bosnia and herzegovina, where positions are expected to align with those of the eu.
written. - turkey has been an associate member of the eu since 1964, when an agreement was signed between the eez and turkey (the ankara agreement). accession negotiations with turkey were officially opened on 3 october 2005, the same day as those with croatia. although from an economic point of view the advantages of such an approach are manifold and can be summarised in several terms: harmonisation of laws; new markets; new economic opportunities, and much greater investment and human potential, as well as for consolidation, peace and stability, and for the benefit of the entire continent. on the other hand, the disrespect for liberal democracy, which implies: discrimination against ethnic minorities (mainly against kurds), forced secularism and the significant role of the military in political life, the non-recognition of the state of cyprus show that turkey's progress is insignificant and many improvements are needed for a possible future approach. as i said, i abstained on this report.
mr president, i sponsored the joint motion for a resolution on the european union strategy for the arctic because the strategic importance of the arctic has been growing at a rapid pace for a number of economic, political and security reasons. and certainly contributing to this is the fact that, thanks to climate change, the ice sheet has seen a 14% decline in the last 30 years. the european union has both rights and obligations under international law in environmental and climate and research roles and an economic interest in this area. such a position is inevitable not only because of the fact that denmark, finland and sweden are arctic countries, but also because of the relations with russia, norway, iceland, in order to continue in the baltic region, the barents sea region, the effective cooperation that has existed so far thanks to the policy of the northern dimension. in this sense, a simpler link between the territories of the member states of the european union and the arctic would contribute to the popularization of the region and the awareness of the citizens of the european union that geographical distance is not a psychological barrier that we would not overcome, because it is a territory that will be extremely important in the future, and i believe that 20% of the world's undiscovered oil and gas reserves are located there.
written. - arctic policy is of paramount importance to the european union's economic and energy interests. the european union is a key player in the global economy, and its role in the world economy is increasingly recognised. we should emphasise that parts of the territory of the three member states denmark, finland and sweden are located in the arctic. this should further convince us of the need to make decisions that protect economic interests. knowing that in recent years there has been a great interest in the arctic from countries in southeast asia, especially when it comes to the exploitation of arctic energy resources, this need is justified in many ways. beyond economic and energy interests, the european union should continue to pursue policies that will mitigate the negative climate change affecting the arctic. between 2005 and 2010, the arctic experienced its warmest period on record. i therefore support all policies that go in the direction of protecting the environment and the interests of the european union.
written. - i agree that there is a need to consolidate the eu's arctic policy, as well as a comprehensive strategy and concrete action plan for eu participation in the arctic, paying particular attention to socio-economic and environmental issues. the resolution recommends the creation of a forum for regular exchanges and consultations on arctic-related issues with regional, local and indigenous actors with the aim of facilitating mutual understanding during the eu-arctic process. i believe that when using natural resources, it is necessary to protect the regional population in an adequate way. ecological and biological areas need to be preserved and binding instruments to prevent pollution need to be put into effect. it is also necessary to emphasise the importance of arctic research and the high contribution of the eu to it.
written. - the arctic, as an area of special flora and fauna, must be treated with particular care by eliminating all oil companies that pose a threat to the area concerned by the possible conduct of their activities. given that 30 percent of the world's gas reserves and 13 percent of the world's oil reserves are located in this part of the world, it's easy to see why the arctic is of particular interest. by claiming the area in question, many countries around the world, not just the arctic ring countries, are trying to exploit some of the rich resources, which poses a significant risk and potential problem due to the significant potential for pollution. i have a positive opinion of the motion for a resolution, but i would like to draw attention again to the potential pollution that could result from oil extraction. the climate conditions there, the winter, are still a great enigma to man, and it is very difficult to cope with the demands of business in extreme conditions where temperatures often fall far below freezing. i have fond memories of the gulf of mexico and the environmental disaster, and i think with great trepidation of all the problems that would occur if something similar happened there. i believe that potential disruption would be impossible to clean up, which would automatically mean that such a fragile ecosystem would be completely devastated.
madam president, honourable commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, the crisis has had a significant impact on the decline in competitiveness, the emergence of macroeconomic imbalances and excessive deficits in the member states. the problems facing some member countries are so severe that some economic analysts have begun to predict the collapse and end of the euro and the eurozone. however, with clearly defined objectives and well-defined activities, and thanks to the determination of the heads of state and the european commission to implement the necessary reforms, the negative trends have begun to change. europe is emerging from the crisis and the euro is becoming the most stable currency. one of the most important measures was the creation of the troika to help the most vulnerable member states financially and programmatically in the process of emerging from the crisis. a specific set of measures has been designed for each of the countries greece, cyprus, portugal and ireland as the causes of the crisis differed in each of the countries. the fact is that countries have implemented strong fiscal consolidation and that the short-term effects are not always in line with the europe 2020 objectives. so for example, lower wages mean lower competitiveness because the best ones go to other countries. reducing pensions and social benefits leads to an increase in poverty. reducing subsidies and incentives for entrepreneurs, if invested in the winners, is an obstacle to growth and development. however, the effect is still a reduction in debt and deficits, which, if accompanied by investment in development projects, opens the way in the long term for a return to higher wages, job creation and better social care, the main objectives of a competitive, innovative, development and social europe. the programme and the work of the troika have produced positive results. europe was not the source of the problem, but it was the source of the solution.
written. the report shows a worrying social situation in the countries where the programme has been implemented and that the progress that should have been made towards the europe 2020 employment targets has proved unsuccessful. it is also worrying that in some sectors, in addition to the jobs lost, the quality of jobs has declined. uncertain forms of employment have increased and basic labour standards have deteriorated. the unemployment rate is unacceptable, especially among young people. unless the situation improves soon, youth unemployment could cause great damage to the labour market, jeopardise the prospects for future economic development, cause brain drain and completely change the demographic picture of the european union. i emphasize this because the four countries that have accepted the programme are not the only member states of the union facing these problems. this is why the european union needs a new, more efficient and transparent mechanism that includes the european institutions but also civil society organisations. we need to be better prepared for the new challenges that member states may face in these economically and economically difficult and uncertain times. i support the recommendations of the rapporteur that the european commission should undertake a more detailed study of the social and economic consequences of the financial crisis, in order to gain a clearer picture of the effects of the programme on the employment system.
mr president, i welcome the resolution on the priorities of the european union for the 25th session of the united nations human rights council. geopolitics is a field full of contradictions, and questions are often asked about the role of the european union in this sphere. by entering into force of the treaty of lisbon and by introducing the institution of the high representative for foreign affairs and security policy and by appointing a special representative for human rights, the european union is making it clear that it does not want to be a passive observer. this resolution underlines the important participation of the european union in all united nations human rights mechanisms. it also clearly encourages member states to become more actively involved and to participate in the common realisation of universal human rights, with particular emphasis on the need to ratify international human rights instruments. in addition, this resolution specifically encourages public debate and interactive dialogue, which is desirable and welcome. however, what i would highlight as an undesirable phenomenon are the frequent attempts to impose value systems under the banner of the fight for human rights, equality, the fight against homophobia and the like. i would like to reiterate my previously expressed views: we must not have privileges for certain groups of people or call for special protection and additional rights. i have always been absolutely and unreservedly for the equality of all citizens before the law. what we need to work on is building a system of mutual respect and esteem because only then will we achieve the desired equality and tolerance among people. to call those with traditional values in the name of human rights is absolutely offensive and unacceptable.
mr president, i am pleased to be able to speak today on a subject which relates to the united nations human rights council because a few years ago, as secretary of state in the then croatian government, i had the honour of being the first official to defend the report of the republic of croatia submitted to the human rights council in the context of the universal periodic review of the human rights situation. and i know personally that the mechanism that the united nations has installed in geneva is extremely important for the global human rights review. in this respect, the european union, for which respect for human rights is one of its fundamental values, plays a very important and essential role in this process and i therefore believe that the council conclusions, which were a kind of preparation for our debate today before the start of the dialogue and activities in geneva, have rightly highlighted those countries and those areas which, from a thematic point of view, should be the priorities of the european union. i agree with several colleagues who in today's debate have mentioned the very worrying situation in syria, where the worst human rights violations have been taking place in recent years. i also share the concern when it comes to the democratic people's republic of korea, and in particular the worrying human rights situation in iran, where we have witnessed continued executions in the past few months. i think we have to take human rights into account in countries that are close to us, and for that reason i think it's good that we focus our positions on the human rights situation in belarus, and we also take into account what's happening in ukraine, ultimately in crimea, which we talked about today and in some other topics, so i think we're going with a strong position and i believe that the countries that are members of the human rights council will articulate the position of the european union.
mr president, i congratulate the commission and the rapporteurs on proposals that are a step forward in the union's migration policies. in times of crisis, when funds are being cut everywhere, it is commendable to see a significant increase in the money allocated to these funds. this is all the more so as the proposed minimum amounts may be increased depending on the needs. i support the possibility of applying to member states' funds to provide asylum to migrants and asylum seekers from other countries, thus encouraging solidarity and facilitating the vulnerability of border countries in the union. in order to make the use of these funds more efficient, it is a good proposal to revise the strategy mid-programming period to ensure adequate funding of the programme until its end. recently, citizens were asked what they considered the european union's greatest achievement, and the majority said it was peace. the second most common response was freedom of movement of people and services. but it is only by planning and controlling migration that we can preserve these values. foreigners have long been not at our doorstep, but in the common european home. so we need to show solidarity and efficiency.
mr president, first of all i would like to thank the four rapporteurs for their good reports, also for the two and a half years of serious work on this project. i can say that about the project, because our job is to encourage legal immigration and prevent illegal immigration. and that's what we're talking about, what we've talked about today, the need for the flow of people, goods and services, but it needs to be controlled. that's why i welcome this border evaluation. there must be no difference in the quality of border management. that is why i support all new countries which will thus be able to achieve a better status in the schengen area. as far as croatia is concerned, we are now the external border of the european union with 1 300 km of border with third countries. and that's why i think this project is very important when it comes to croatia. so financial support for national programmes of the member states is also important. of course, it would be better to have more than one billion, but at the moment i think that we need to manage borders with third countries better and i thank the council and the commission and the rapporteurs.
written. it is of the utmost importance that we pay considerable attention to the network information security of information systems and services. in this way, we will act primarily to increase the freedom and security of the citizens themselves, but also to increase economic activity. i also believe we need to secure the most critical infrastructure and discourage intentional and accidental incidents as much as we can. we must not allow negative consequences because they affect the economy of the european union, and that is unacceptable. the high level of security of network and information systems can only be ensured by a quality national strategy. it is important to know that we can also rely on the european network and information security agency (enisa) to develop national strategies. by joining forces, we can also cultivate a strategic partnership, which is another step forward. the security policy of the european union must be brought closer to the national security policies of the member states, and we must see this as one of the tasks of the union. as a representative of the republic of croatia, i clearly conclude that my country recognises the importance of the full development of the information society in line with the expectations of the european family.
mr. chairman, today's society is increasingly online, and life without the devices that allow us to communicate, navigate and entertain is unthinkable. but cell phones change, break, and fail so often that the average household is overwhelmed with cables and chargers. in addition, the disposal of unnecessary chargers is an environmental problem. therefore, i welcome the adoption of the directive on the placing of radio equipment on the market, as consumers will benefit most from these rules. the most important new feature is the requirement for electronics manufacturers to start producing universal chargers for mobile phones, tablets, mp3 players, cameras and similar devices. this is the first time that the european union has taken a decision making the introduction of a universal charger mandatory. in a world where the average smartphone battery lasts for a day, a little thing like a universal charger will make life much easier for our citizens. in closing, i would like to thank and congratulate the rapporteur, mrs weiler, on her work.
the commission's communication on the implementation of the budget for 2015 sets out the main priorities for the union's budget for the coming financial year. this lack of resources requires a balanced approach between fiscal consolidation and the allocation of resources for growth, employment and recovery. i think we need to focus on these guidelines as the priority areas for the year ahead. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the programme and will continue to monitor the implementation of the programme. we also need to invest in industrial policy to ensure secure and long-term jobs, and we need to make use of all the flexibility mechanisms and instruments we agreed to when adopting the multiannual financial framework for the eur 23.4 billion that are still outstanding for payment in 2013.
written. - this regulation should establish the asylum, migration and integration fund. it would contribute to the development of a common union-wide policy on asylum and immigration and to the strengthening of the area of freedom, security and justice, with regard to the application of the principle of solidarity and responsibility-sharing between member states and cooperation with third countries. as a member of the socialist and democratic group in the european parliament, i believe that this is a very important issue for the member states, especially in these times. i believe it is essential that the fund is persistent in supporting member states' efforts to secure international protection and find a lasting solution for refugees and displaced persons who, according to the decision of the united nations high commissioner for refugees (unhcr), are exercising their right to resettle on their territory. these persons must be guaranteed a secure legal status and their effective integration promoted. in conclusion, i support this report and consider that the fund should support the efforts of the union and the member states relating to the strengthening of the capacity of the member states to develop, monitor and evaluate asylum policies in the light of their obligations under existing union legislation.
written. - in creating a single european area of freedom, security and justice, it is of the utmost importance to regulate common asylum and immigration policies. i therefore supported this report, as it aims to create a more flexible and transparent fund that will achieve greater solidarity and a fairer distribution of liabilities and benefits among member states. but more importantly, it will be more effective in addressing the problem that migrants and asylum seekers face, which is the failure to integrate into the local society that causes negative attitudes in that society. efforts to improve relations between immigrants and local communities should be reciprocal. on the one hand, immigrants and asylum seekers must respect the rules and values of the society that welcomes them, and on the other, society must allow immigrants to participate fully in it: politically, culturally, economically and socially. the most important thing for immigrants and asylum seekers to feel accepted in their new environment is to provide them with education, employment, language training and housing. i believe these are the key directions in which the funds should be directed.
written. - i'd like to thank the reporter for an excellent report that i fully support. after the tragedy of lampedusa, i warned that we must do everything in our power to prevent the mediterranean from becoming a blue-water death-bed for migrants trying to reach the eu mainland. as one of the eu's peripheral countries, migrants arrive by sea and land, and the number of asylum applications increases as the country enters the eu. the commission should also be able to provide information on the impact of the measures taken on the environment and the environment protection. i therefore support the adoption of the asylum, migration and integration fund which should, as translated by rapporteur guillaume, reflect the need for increased flexibility and simplification. joint actions for the formulation of asylum and immigration policy are of particular importance as they constitute one of the criteria for achieving the objective of the european union of creating an area of freedom, security and justice. i also welcome this report because it would support member states' efforts to provide international protection and a durable solution for refugees and displaced persons on their territory.
written. - i am positive about this report, given that we need to be more flexible and simpler if we are to ensure a transparent allocation of funds to achieve the general and specific objectives of the funds themselves. the potential of these lies in the knowledge that member states must ensure that national programmes operate in a way that is compatible with the proposed activities of the funds, since this is the only way to ensure that the efforts put in are put to good use. the activities we undertake towards those with refugee status are commendable, all those actions that contribute to improving and maintaining existing infrastructure and accommodation services, strengthening and improving administrative structures and systems, and informing local communities about relevant activities. i also take a positive view of the activities of cooperation with organisations working on similar or the same problems, such as unhcr, because of the particular sensitivity i personally have to the problems of the subject. croatia itself was the victim of an aggressive attack when its inhabitants were going through agony and therefore i am clear about the role of these funds and once again i note that i am extremely positive about their development and further affirmation. the principle of solidarity is based on the need-based activities, so we should not be narrow-minded but should collectively welcome all actions that affect any form of humanitarian action.
written. - in order to support the efforts of member states to welcome refugees, i support the establishment of a european asylum and migration fund. the commission will continue to support the implementation of the european asylum support office (easo) and the european asylum support office (easo) in the member states, in particular by providing support to the implementation of the european asylum support office (easo) and the european asylum support office (easo). the activities financed include the education of staff and local authorities dealing with asylum seekers and refugees, the upgrading of reception centres and the empowerment of refugees through social and legal assistance, language training, etc. the fund also supports the resettlement activities of eu member states, i.e. the transfer of persons in need of international protection from one eu member state to another or from a non-eu country to an eu member state. in order to ensure that the member states are able to take full advantage of the new mechanisms, the commission should be able to provide the necessary support to the member states in the form of a network of experts, including the european asylum support office (easo), to assist member states with less experience in the field of relocation.
written. - i think the idea of the asylum, migration and integration fund is a good idea, and that all member states should be involved in aid. as always, the eu adopts acts giving member states the option of not doing their share of the work, so in this case too it is possible for member states to do only 20% of the agreed plan. all migrants leave their countries not because they're better off, but because they're worse off, and it should be said that many migrants are welcomed by certain countries and large corporations because of the black market and the lowering of labor costs, because they do the jobs that their citizens don't want to do. the european union has a long history of supporting the fight against trafficking in human beings, and the eu has been a major supporter of the fight against trafficking in human beings. women are particularly affected by this trade, and i believe that number will only increase because of the deep crisis and unemployment, because it is considered that it is better elsewhere.
i support the report on the ratification of the hong kong international convention for the safe and environmentally sound recycling of ships. the basel convention has not had the expected effect on ship recycling. ships are still imported into non-oecd countries and then disposed of in an environmentally harmful way. i agree with the report that the hong kong convention is not an ideal solution for the european union, but i think it is an important step towards achieving global environmentally sound practices in the recycling of waste ships. in this context, it is of particular importance that facilities in non-oecd countries comply with high environmental standards in recycling. although the adoption of the convention is expected to be a long process, the european union must set an example to other countries in the speed with which it creates the conditions for ratification of the hong kong convention.
the hong kong convention represents the efforts of the international labour organization (ilo), the international maritime organization (imo) and the basel convention secretariat to reach an agreement on providing an effective solution to unsafe and harmful ship recycling practices. the purpose of this regulation is to minimise the harmful effects of ship recycling on human health and the environment, and i therefore support it. as croatia is a maritime country, i support this regulation which would protect croatian ports and anchorages and prevent pollution of our sea. i also agree with the fact that safety and health protection of the eu's people and marine environment must be increased over the life of the ship. it is of particular importance that hazardous waste generated from ship recycling be secured and disposed of in an environmentally sound manner. this regulation would protect people and the environment from the possible harmful effects of materials on board ships calling at a port or anchorage of a member state.
- the economic crisis in the european union has also led to a deep social and societal crisis. the crisis in southern europe, in greece, portugal, ireland and cyprus, would certainly have had much more negative consequences had it not been for the financial assistance of the european union and the imf. at european level, the financial injection helped to prevent further deterioration. however, the adjustment mechanisms implemented in the countries mentioned have not fully achieved the desired results. i therefore support the rapporteur's proposal for a strong european monetary fund, especially as some member states of the union are still struggling with the economic and financial crisis. i think we need a mechanism that will come to the aid of all member states, not just the euro area countries, when needed. a mechanism based on the acquis of the european union, which should be subject to the highest democratic standards of accountability and legitimacy and which is ready to respond to the new challenges posed by the economic and financial situation.
written. - the destructive and counterproductive actions of the troika, which ideologically pushes austerity measures as the only way out of the crisis, are already clear to everyone today, and the countries most affected by the crisis have not only not recovered, but some are even worse off. socialists and democrats have warned of these dangers and the lack of legitimacy of the current system. the most important economic issues cannot be negotiated behind closed doors, without accountability to a democratically elected body. the results are now visible to all and i hope that we can now, if nothing else, look to the future and forget the old troika system and, guided by better ideas, devise a more useful programme for europe and its citizens.
written. - i'm having a negative reaction to this report. in particular, given that both the lisbon strategy and europe 2020 indicate the importance of improving the control mechanism for the management of the budget itself, it is clear that the timely implementation and combination of the same is the only prerequisite for job creation and economic development in the areas where the euro is used as a means of payment. european taxpayers, as well as citizens of the republic of croatia, have clearly shown solidarity with the countries in difficulty, and also, the countries themselves have reacted in a way that has put significant efforts into their own structural problems which, ultimately, have led to a negative situation. what i want to stress first and foremost is the importance of structural reforms. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the financial interests of the union. the roles of the troika itself must find a great deal of support in the logistical sense in the states in order to exploit the potentials they have and the expertise that rests in their own potentials because in this way they will avoid paying the additional costs of external expertise. finally, i would like to stress once again that the lisbon strategy has not had the full impact or the final effect that it envisaged, and i therefore call for an additional focus on boosting economic growth and employment.
written. - this report seeks to identify the social and societal impact of the troika on programmes in ireland, greece, spain and cyprus. in particular, the importance of the joint employment report as an important step in addressing the social dimension of the european monetary union is underlined. the need for sustainability of public finances and adequate social protection for citizens is also highlighted. i did not support this report because it contains many paragraphs with which i disagreed, in particular the commission's call for the international labour organisation (ilo) and the council of europe to draw up a report on possible corrective measures and incentives to improve the social situation, the procedure for securing funds and the sustainability of public finances in those countries, as well as the call for compliance with the said legal obligations laid down in the treaties and the charter of fundamental rights.
mr president, the current economic crisis affecting the member states can only be alleviated by the active involvement of the institutions of the european union. the european parliament should have a leading role in the design, implementation and evaluation of policies that will prevent or at least mitigate future similar crises. in this process, we should not overlook the importance of implementing social policies that will make life easier for citizens in these difficult times. the european central bank and the european commission, as parts of the troika, should not disregard the importance of the european parliament, especially when it comes to decisions outside the mandate of the european central bank. i also appeal to the fact that education and health should not be treated as an expense anywhere in europe, but as an investment in a better future for europe. i hope that the european parliament will also play a central role in the defence of social policies, especially in relation to young people.
written. - the report shows a worrying social situation in the countries where the programme was implemented and that the progress that should have been made towards the europe 2020 employment targets has proved to be unsuccessful. it is a worrying fact that in some sectors, in addition to the jobs lost, the quality of jobs is also declining. uncertain forms of employment have increased and basic labour standards have deteriorated. the unemployment rate is unacceptable, especially among young people. unless the situation improves soon, youth unemployment could cause great damage to the labour market, jeopardise the prospects for future economic development, cause brain drain and completely change the demographic picture of the european union. i emphasize this because the four countries that have received the programme are not the only member states of the union to face these problems. this is why the european union needs a new, more efficient and transparent mechanism that includes the european institutions but also civil society organisations. we must be better prepared for the new challenges that member states may face in these economically and economically difficult and uncertain times. i support the recommendations of the rapporteur who calls on the european commission to carry out a more detailed study of the social and economic consequences of the financial crisis in order to gain a clearer insight into the effects of the programme on the employment system.
written. - while certain political and ideological options in europe have not yet awakened from their slumber and continue to advocate austerity measures as the only way out of the crisis, the situation is only getting worse public services, education, health, and even key social services are facing a reduction in the resources necessary to protect and develop society. it is also very simple to understand that growth will not happen until investment starts and until businesses and citizens feel that their living conditions are better and that the market is sustainable. the european union is at a crossroads and soon citizens will have to decide what kind of europe they want, a europe of prosperity and security or a europe of continued austerity. employment, growth and social issues are interrelated themes and understanding their interaction will be key in building a strategy for a sustainable european future.
written. - the severe economic and financial crisis has led to a marked increase in unemployment, significant job losses and an increase in the number of long-term unemployed, while existing working conditions have deteriorated considerably. employment rates play a crucial role in the sustainability of social protection and pension systems and in the achievement of the europe 2020 social and employment objectives. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance in the context of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, in particular the countries of the former soviet union, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. the youth are the most affected by the high unemployment rate which makes me particularly sad given the fact that it is this age group that must be the driver of future recovery activities. poverty and social exclusion are particularly sensitive issues that need to be addressed with caution because of the causal links with the above problems, as this is the only way to avoid unintended consequences. it is essential to make progress towards the outlined objectives of the europe 2020 strategy with a particular focus on countries covered by the adjustment programme in order to ensure that they too succeed in achieving the desired order and economic recovery.
written. - the bailouts of the eurozone countries were carried out under strict conditions, checked and monitored by the so-called troika: the european commission, the european central bank and the international monetary fund. the troika was established as a back-up and emergency solution adopted under considerable time pressure due to the economic crisis, when ad hoc decisions to support countries experiencing extreme difficulties had to be taken in order to avoid a disorderly default and the spread of the crisis to other member states. since the troika's working methods and democratic accountability were called into question, parliament launched an inquiry which included a series of public hearings and delegations on the impact of the measures taken on the economy and people's lives. while i support certain points in the report, such as the various challenges the troika had to overcome in the crisis situation and the internal problem of the functioning of the organisation, the three institutions do not have equal responsibility and their decision-making is done at different levels of responsibility. i voted against because the creation of the european financial stability facility and the european stability mechanism outside the union's institutions represents a step backwards in the development of the union, to the detriment, above all, of parliament, the court of auditors and the court of justice of the european union.
written. - the report by mr cercas has shown in a credible way how damaging some of the policies of the troika in greece, ireland, portugal and cyprus have been. as can be seen from various parts of the report, aggressive austerity policies have consequently had a profound impact on the radical increase in unemployment, especially among young people. in addition, there are clear and worrying trends in increasing poverty and increasing social exclusion and the very marked marginalisation of vulnerable social groups. it is clear that the troika, in implementing the austerity programme, has enslaved itself to economic indicators, and this almost completely ignoring the fact that social indicators are an equally important element of the healthy development of our society. i cannot agree with economic policies that aim to correct mere statistics about economic growth, but which ultimately result in deepening the social gap between rich and poor, and reinforce deep social divisions whose conflict is economic in nature. the europe i see is a europe of equality and equal opportunities for all, with an emphasis on social sensitivity and concern for others. this is no time to use our politics to reinforce the divide between those who have much and those who have nothing. it's time to show solidarity more than ever. i am extremely pleased that mr cercas' report recognises this and i was therefore very happy to support it.
written. - i don't think any specific words about the trinity are necessary. this is further evidence of the failure of the eu to resolve the crisis, but we must admit that there is a will. so the very creation of the troika was not in line with eu law, the aid mechanisms were ad hoc and uncoordinated. the role of the european commission, which is in a direct conflict of interest, is also interesting, because on the one hand it has a role in the troika, and on the other hand it is a certain guardian of the rights and policies of the member states, especially in the field of the economy and employment. there is also a conflict of interest between the current role of the european central bank in the troika as a 'technical adviser' and the position of creditor in the four member countries. late last year, part of the imf troika admitted its failure to implement austerity policies in greece. i think the whole troika policy is wrong because it doesn't solve the deep problems but only tries to contain the spread of the crisis to the larger eu countries by means of austerity measures. the failure also shows that the eu cannot be led through a bureaucratic european commission or through the battlefield of ministers in the council. the european parliament, as the most legitimate body, must be more involved in decision-making.
mr president, the issue addressed in this report is very complex and needs to be addressed in a multidimensional way. for this reason, a compromise is essential and a solution acceptable to as many people as possible is needed. the commission should also be able to provide information on the number of asylum applications submitted by member states, the number of applications received by the member states and the number of applications received by the union. the compromise approach to the acceptance of implementing acts is therefore important for member states. over the past 15 years, several thousand people have applied for asylum in croatia - and this figure is expected to grow further as croatia's borders now also represent the external borders of the european union. a particular challenge in croatia is the issue of housing, or lack thereof. the same challenges are surely faced by other member states. this report is indeed a step forward in the further development of migration policy while protecting the interests of the european union and the added value of its policies for all its citizens.
written. - the objective of the internal policy of the european union is to create an area of freedom, security and justice. there must be an order without internal borders into which people can freely enter, in which they can move freely, live and work, confident that their rights are fully respected and that their safety is guaranteed. it is necessary to ensure full respect for international law and human rights. union financial resources to support the development of this area are of great importance. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 264 concerning the establishment of a european data protection supervisor. the existence of a common framework should allow for the necessary coherence and uniform implementation of the funding. the union's financial means would be more efficient if the co-financing of eligible actions were based on strategic multiannual planning by each member state in cooperation with the commission. the new structure of the internal affairs funds in the multiannual financial framework aims to simplify the applicable rules and reduce the administrative burden for beneficiaries. however, the control mechanisms should remain effective. in conclusion, i support this report and believe that each member state should set up a committee to monitor the implementation and progress towards the objectives of this programme.
written. - in accordance with the specific situations and needs of individual member states, financial resources under their national programmes should be allocated to those most in need by creating a flexible framework that will confirm the purpose of the fund's function. a defined approach at national, local and regional level with a coherent strategy designed to promote the integration of third-country nationals will add value to the fund and make it more productive. the fund's governance mechanism should be particularly sensitive to the protection of human rights as regards migrants, refugees and asylum seekers. the fund should be active in all member states in establishing strategies for organising legal migration, strengthening their capacity to develop, implement, monitor and evaluate all strategies, policies and measures for third-country nationals. it should also support the exchange of information and cooperation between the different services of its administrations, as well as with other members. i support the proposal for a regulation of the parliament and of the council. the joint asylum and immigration policy action, which is based on solidarity between member states, third countries and their nationals, creates a link that allows the creation of a free and secure environment.
in writing. - the resources approved today will finance european action on asylum and migration. we have made a great deal of progress, and we have had a great impact, but unfortunately there are still some unresolved issues which, because of the resistance of the council and therefore of some member states, prevent us from making a strong push towards a european immigration policy based on greater solidarity. i hope that the italian presidency will be decisive in this respect in order to place the issue of immigration on the council's agenda as one of the priorities. today's political action - concludes la via - is another step forward in managing this kind of emergency, which particularly affects border states such as italy and regions such as sicily.
written. - i supported the report on the asylum, migration and integration fund and the internal security fund. the commission's communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment and the european year of the environment for the year 2013 is a good example of the importance of the european year of the environment and the european year of the environment for the union. the new legislative framework (2014 2020.) for the establishment of eu funding in the field of internal affairs consists of 4 measures establishing the asylum and migration fund, the financial support instrument for police cooperation, crime prevention and repression and crisis management and the financial support instrument for external borders and visas, and as part of the internal security fund. the horizontal measure relates to the provisions of all three specific measures and therefore consists of provisions such as the protection of the union's financial interest, central management, national programmes or evaluation and reporting. the commission notes that the aid is granted to the beneficiaries of the scheme.
written. - the european union's internal policy aims to create an area without internal borders; an area where people can enter, move, live and work freely. the union's external action in the field of asylum and migration policy should be coordinated with the union's external action in the field of migration policy. i supported this report because i believe it is extremely important to coordinate spending in this area in order to achieve safety and efficiency. i welcome the progress made by this report, which is to simplify the structure of the funds dealing with internal security issues. the commission should also be able to provide the necessary financial support to the member states in order to ensure that the union's financial assistance is used to support the implementation of the union's policies and to support the implementation of the union's policies and programmes.
written. - i support the report by mr fontana which defines the general provisions of the asylum and migration fund and the internal security fund. the union's values have been recognised by migrants and asylum seekers from third countries and member states have become a refuge for many citizens of other countries. our task is to demonstrate solidarity and effectiveness in this respect and thus to reaffirm the fundamental principles of the european union. i agree that an integrated approach to issues arising from the pressure of migration and asylum applications and related to the management of the eu's external borders is needed. the existence of a common framework is important for several reasons. in addition to ensuring coherence, it would also harmonise the implementation of funding in related policy areas. in conclusion, i welcome the dialogue between the commission and all the member states aimed at facilitating national programmes and increasing the amount of funding for the funds in question despite the crisis.
written. - the internal policy of the european union should be conducted in such a way as to ensure an area of freedom, security and justice. in translation, the union must respect four fundamental freedoms, among which the freedom of movement of persons, which allows the unhindered movement of individuals within the union, and their unhindered right to live, work and the full enjoyment of all other rights, stand out. in this context, immigration is inevitable. the policy towards immigrants must be broad and comprehensive with a view to strengthening the union's competitiveness and social cohesion, creating a common european asylum system, preventing the threat of serious and organised crime, combating illegal immigration, trafficking in human beings, cybercrime and terrorism. i have a positive opinion of the report and i particularly call for an integrated approach to the issues arising from the pressure of migration, asylum and eu border management. stressing the importance of full respect for international law and all human rights in order to show solidarity among all member states by demonstrating awareness of the need to respect national responsibilities, finally, effective financial management and transparency as well as equal treatment of beneficiaries are particularly important in order to ensure credibility towards all stakeholders and reputation at union level as a whole.
written. - although the report is primarily technical in nature, i supported it because it contains balanced rules and principles. i agree with the rapporteur that spending in this area should be coordinated to ensure complementarity and efficiency and to achieve budgetary synergies. i also support the call for minimising administrative burden in a way that complements the principle of proportionality, whereby member states would establish partnerships with the authorities and bodies concerned, in order to develop and implement their national programmes in the most effective way. i particularly support the part of the report which calls for transparency, legal certainty and access to information. that being said, i voted yes.
written. - organized crime, terrorism, drug trafficking, corruption, trafficking in human beings and arms are just some of the challenges that need to be tackled systematically and decisively in order to achieve the internal security of the european union and for the benefit of all citizens. police cooperation could effectively reduce the rate of cross-border crime and the illegal immigration of criminal groups into member states. given the superior position of the european union as a whole over a member state, it is logical that the coordination and resolution of cross-border disputes should be financed from the budget of the european union itself. the exchange of information, mutual trust, the strengthening of national capabilities and the union's own capabilities are just some of the advantages that would have a positive impact on the overall security perspective. the fund would increase flexibility and simplify the achievement of the objectives of this regulation, while ensuring a transparent allocation of resources. i support the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing an instrument for financial support for police cooperation, preventing and combating crime and crisis management under the internal security fund because it ensures a higher level of security in the european union.
written. - the internal security fund will replace the existing programmes on prevention and combating crime (isec) and prevention, preparedness and consequence management of terrorism and other security-related risks (cips). one of the objectives of the fund is to ensure a high level of security in the eu through the prevention of crime, the fight against cross-border and organised crime, and the fight against terrorism. it will also strengthen coordination and cooperation between law enforcement authorities and other national authorities of the member states, through europol, third countries and international organisations or other relevant eu bodies. i supported this report because of the need to strengthen measures to protect eu citizens and territories from growing international threats and to support the work of the competent authorities of the eu member states. i also support providing member states with the means to integrate as many measures of the fund as possible into their national programmes in order to achieve greater effectiveness of its objectives. croatia is to receive from this fund almost eur 20 million over the period 2014-2020 for investments in internal security and the successful implementation of measures in line with the objectives of the new fund.
written. - when we talk about the internal security strategy and its best possible implementation, it requires respect for fundamental rights and freedoms, division of tasks and solidarity between member states, as well as alignment with external security. i supported this proposal for a regulation as it aims to promote and develop administrative and operational coordination, cooperation, mutual understanding and exchange of information between the law enforcement authorities of the member states and other relevant union bodies. i agree that member states should ensure that their national programmes include measures covering all the specific objectives of this regulation and that the programmes guarantee the effective achievement of those objectives for which the fund will be allocated. as this is about the protection and safety of people and the protection of infrastructure, continuous monitoring and evaluation and threat and risk assessment are essential. i also believe that public communication and awareness raising will make a significant contribution to internal security.
written. - this plenary session discussed several documents that will improve the judiciary in the eu. however, as in the member states, the judiciary in the union cannot function as a separate mechanism but depends on the law enforcement capabilities the work of the police and border guards. any form of crime should be condemned in the strongest possible terms and measures to prevent and combat crime, as well as measures to coordinate and cooperate between law enforcement and other authorities of the member states, are of great importance. many problems pose challenges to the internal security of the union, such as organised and travelling crime, illicit drug trafficking, corruption, human trafficking and arms trafficking, among others. therefore, i agree that it is necessary to take enhanced measures to protect people and goods from existing and growing transnational threats and for this reason i support the new proposal for an internal security fund.
written. - the european union has as a fundamental task to ensure a high level of security in the area of freedom, security and justice, as stated in the treaty on the functioning of the european union itself, by taking significant measures concerning the prevention and combating of crime as well as law enforcement measures. all the above activities should be carried out with the involvement of all relevant stakeholders, such as europol or other relevant eu bodies, while respecting third countries and international organisations. all funds invested to achieve the relevant general and specific objectives must be allocated in a transparent manner and spent correctly. the effectiveness of the measures implemented must be at the highest level and the implementation of the activities themselves must be tailored to the end-users. i am positive about the report and particularly draw attention to the reinforced measures to protect people and goods from the growing transnational threats and to the necessary support for the work carried out by the competent authorities of the member states. of course, terrorism, organised and travelling crime, drug trafficking, corruption, computer crime, trafficking in human beings and arms trafficking remain challenges to the internal security of the union and should not be taken lightly. many countries are still going through a transition period, where some of the population still has difficult living conditions, which is why illegal activities, unfortunately, represent an opportunity.
written. - i supported the proposal to establish an instrument to provide financial support for police cooperation, crime prevention and control and crisis management relating to internal security. organised and mobile crime, drug trafficking, corruption, computer crime, trafficking in human beings and arms trafficking continue to be major challenges facing the member states of the union and i therefore consider that the european union internal security strategy adopted by the council in february 2010 is a highly relevant programme that does not violate the principle of subsidiarity, as it is the most effective solution to common security challenges.
written. - the union needs a more coordinated approach to internal and external aspects of migration management and internal security. the union should also establish a link between the fight against illegal immigration and the enhancement of external border security as well as closer cooperation and dialogue with third countries to tackle illegal immigration and promote legal migration. uniform and high-quality external border control is essential to strengthen the area of freedom, security and justice. solidarity between the member states and the union is a fundamental element of the common policy on the management of the external borders. the internal security fund should pay particular attention to member states which, due to their geographical location, face a disproportionate burden due to migratory flows. the fund should also support actions on the territory of the schengen area countries as part of the development of a common integrated border management system that strengthens the overall functioning of the schengen area. finally, as a member of the croatian delegation to the european parliament, i support any improvement in policies concerning external borders and visas. i am pleased that croatia's future accession to the schengen area will also contribute to the security of the external borders.
the geographical nature of the european union requires a great deal of effort to secure its external borders. it is clear that the eu's security policy is based on a border policy. maritime and land borders, the schengen area and security policy are constantly demanding the development of programmes to combat crime, illegal activities and terrorism. i support any policy that goes in the direction of creating better conditions for asylum seekers and refugees, as well as all other vulnerable groups. the new programme on external border financing provides for an investment of eur 2,76 billion by 2020, of which eur 1,5 billion goes to national programmes and eur 791 million to monitor migration trends at the external borders of the european union. croatia has about 1 350 km of border with non-eu countries (serbia, bosnia and herzegovina, montenegro). this requires croatia to invest additional efforts in border security. the commission has also received comments from the croatian authorities, which have not provided any information on the measures taken by the member states to ensure compliance with the obligations under the treaty on european union. the european union is also committed to supporting the development of a european security and defence policy, which is based on the principles of the european union's common security and defence policy (csdp).
written. - i supported this proposal for a regulation because the objective of the union and of this instrument is to ensure security in the area of freedom, security and justice. the measures on the movement of persons across internal borders, external border control and the common visa policy as part of a harmonised system would allow for the exchange of information and situational awareness needed to facilitate legal travel and tackle illegal immigration. in terms of illegal immigration, but also in terms of promoting legal migration, cooperation and dialogue with third countries are needed. furthermore, the union should provide for a budget and adequate means to deal with emergency situations in a spirit of respect for human rights and solidarity among all member states while maintaining awareness of national responsibilities and ensuring division of tasks. in implementing measures, member states should pay attention to the identification, immediate support and referral to services for the protection of vulnerable persons, in particular children and unaccompanied minors. it is of particular importance that the member states ensure that, through their national programmes, the objectives of this regulation are attained and that the allocation of funds from the fund is proportionate to the objectives, targets and requirements of the programme.
written. - i agree with rapporteur marinescu that a more coherent approach is needed to the internal and external aspects of migration management and internal security and i support his report on the internal security fund external borders and visas. it is necessary to establish a dialogue with third countries on addressing illegal immigration and promoting legal migration. i believe that we must not forget the principle of solidarity, which is also one of the fundamental principles of the union, and allow freedom of movement and freedom to provide services. i call for the achievement of the general and specific objectives of this regulation and for an adequate and transparent allocation of resources.
written. - it is clear that the eu needs a more coherent approach to the internal and external aspects of migration management in terms of combating illegal immigration and enhancing the security of external borders, and closer cooperation and dialogue with third countries to tackle illegal immigration. it is necessary to develop a unified approach to issues arising from migration pressures and asylum claims, and budgetary resources for dealing with emergency situations must be allocated with respect for human rights to solidarity while maintaining awareness of national responsibilities and ensuring a clear division of tasks. i have a positive opinion of the report and draw particular attention to the fact that the fund should carry out its activities in the most efficient and user-friendly way. of course, synergies, consistency and complementarity with other funds and programmes are also needed to make the final effect far more significant. it is of particular importance that the external borders be controlled in a uniform and high-quality manner in order to strengthen the area of freedom, security and justice. they must be monitored on a third-country model, monitored in cooperation with neighbouring countries and subject to control measures within the free movement area to prevent illegal immigration and cross-border crime in the territory of the schengen area. the common union standards shall imply the application of operational measures in a uniform and undivided manner in order to achieve a high and uniform level of security at the border and in the visa area.
written. - croatia, as the member state with the longest external land border, is under great pressure from the increasing number of asylum applications, and its geographical position and shape make it significantly difficult to combat drug and counterfeit smuggling and trafficking in human beings. i therefore absolutely welcome the establishment of the instrument for financial support for the management of external borders and the common visa policy as part of the internal security fund. the improvement of existing and new infrastructure at border crossing points, new equipment for border police work, investment in information and communication systems and further training of border police officers will greatly facilitate the challenges faced by our country in protecting the external borders of the union. croatia is getting an opportunity to withdraw significant funds by drawing up a quality national programme and i really hope that the croatian government will be able to use this for the benefit of croatia, but also the whole european union.
written. - i supported the report on the high common level of network and information security. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the definition of the concept of 'originating products' and the definition of the concept of 'originating products' and the definition of the concept of 'originating products' in accordance with article 4 of regulation (eu) no 1308/2013. the measures aim to improve the security of the internet and of the private networks and information systems that support the functioning of our society and economy. due to the interconnectedness of networks and information systems, significant disruptions of those systems in one member state may affect other member states and the union as a whole. the resilience and stability of network and information systems, as well as the continuity of essential services, are essential for the smooth functioning of the internal market, in particular for the further development of the digital single market.
written. - in a globalised world full of technological and societal challenges, network and information systems play a key role in society, and their reliability and security are essential for economic activities, social welfare, communication and exchange between people, civil society organisations and businesses, and for the protection and respect of privacy and personal data. investment in security infrastructure is also important for sustaining vital economic and social activities in the fields of energy, transport, banking, finance and the like. it is therefore necessary to achieve cooperation between member states on the issue of coordinated actions on detection and prevention of network and information security issues, bearing in mind privacy as a right of citizens.
written. - i agree that the commission should refer the matter back to parliament if it intends to substantially amend its proposal or to replace it with another text. the reliability and security of online information systems and services are essential for the freedom and general security of the citizens of the union in the first place, and for economic activities and social well-being. the commission should also be able to provide the necessary information to the member states to enable them to take appropriate measures to ensure the security of their national systems. such incidents, i agree, can absolutely cause great damage to the union economy, and most importantly, with each incident, the confidence of users and investors falls. a national strategy is needed in each member state to achieve and subsequently be able to maintain a high level of security of network and information systems. the commission should also be able to request the assistance of the european network and information security agency (enisa) in developing its own national nis strategies, based on a common minimum strategic partnership. the eu and its member states' role in the field of network and information security is to bring the eu's security policy and the member states' national security policies closer together. the republic of croatia encounters security as a prerequisite for the full development of the information society, which is set by the eu.
written. - i supported this directive because it is a selected proposal which does not interfere with the competences of individual member states of the union. the directive does not prejudice the possibility for each member state to take the necessary measures to protect its essential security interests, to protect public policy and public security, and to allow the investigation, detection and prosecution of criminal offences. i agree that cooperation between the public and private sectors is of key importance in this area and accordingly it is important for the commission to adopt, by means of delegated acts, a common set of standards for the exchange of sensitive and confidential information.
written. - annual financial statements are the foundation of prudential regulation as they underpin all legislative initiatives in the financial services sector and play a key role in protecting the interests of creditors and shareholders. i agree that any beneficiary of financial resources from the union programme to support specific activities in the field of financial reporting and auditing should be required to indicate in a publicly accessible place that it has received financial resources from the budget of the european union in order to encourage transparency and trust in the programme. this is necessary in terms of effectively monitoring the economic growth indicators of each member state, and cooperation between companies, national financial institutions and the european financial reporting advisory group is needed to more easily achieve the desired growth impact and meet the binding targets of the europe 2020 strategy, as cooperation exchanges advice and policy guidance on the tax and macroeconomic structural reforms necessary to stimulate growth. the programme regulators rely on accounting terminology to understand the risks a company takes and thus its responsibilities. the union programme to support specific activities in the field of financial reporting and auditing is an important step towards improving the functioning of the common internal market and strengthening corporate governance through transparent business conduct, financial reporting and auditing and i therefore support this report.
written. - i support this proposal to renew the above programme for the next financial framework (2014 2020) which would allow the direct funding of the programme beneficiaries from the union budget in the next programming period. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the measures in question are imputable to the state. this eu programme is a type of funding programme that currently supports three organisations involved in financial reporting and auditing: the international financial reporting standards (ifrs) foundation, efrag (european financial reporting advisory group), which assesses whether ifrs standards are compliant with union company law as part of the union recognition process and provides input for the development of standards, and the piob (public interest oversight board) which oversees international auditing, ethics and education standards for the accountancy profession. all three organisations are private organisations, partly funded by the eu, partly by private institutions. the harmonisation of financial reporting takes place at both global and european union level and therefore, since accession to the eu, all amendments and related interpretations adopted by the commission on the ifrs and published in the official journal of the european union apply in croatia as well.
written. - i support this report on the establishment of a union programme for the period 2014-2020 to improve the conditions for the effective functioning of the internal market by supporting the transparent and independent development of international financial reporting standards and audit standards. in addition to the central role that financial statements play in ensuring that investors have important information relating to the balance sheet, the profit and loss account and the cash flow, they also support effective corporate governance. in a global economy, there is a need for a global accounting language, while taking into account the fact that many different accounting traditions are already in use. in order to ensure that the interests of the union are respected and that global standards are of high quality and in line with union law, it is essential that the interests of the union are adequately represented in that process of establishing international standards. financial statements should provide a 'true and accurate representation' and should be reliable and understandable, comparable and relevant. the european union bodies active in the field of accounting and auditing, which receive union funds through programmes, must have a duty of care to ensure independence and the economic use of public funds. i consider this proposal for a regulation to be particularly important in terms of improving the conditions for the functioning of the single market through business support, financial reporting activities and actions and audit bodies.
written. - decision no 716/2009/ec of the european parliament and of the council established a community programme to support specific activities in the field of financial services, financial reporting and auditing. on the basis of that decision, the european financial reporting advisory group (efrag), the foundation for international financial reporting standards (ifrs foundation) and the public interest oversight board (piob) benefited from union co-financing in the form of operating grants until 31 december 2013. the msfi foundation and efrag have undergone governance reforms to ensure that, through their structure and processes, they fulfil their public interest mission in an independent, efficient, transparent and democratically accountable manner. i abstained on this report because i believe that before taking on the role of 'single european accounting voice', efrag should take into account all possible positions in the union during the relevant procedure, in which national standard-setting bodies, governments and regulatory authorities and other stakeholders have a key role, taking into account the significant differences of opinion that already exist between member states and various stakeholders. in addition, all interactions between efrag and the iasb should be fully transparent and efrag should take any decision only after extensive consultation with the national standard-setting bodies.
written. - any of us who have regularly attended the committee on budgets or the committee on economic and monetary affairs are familiar with the words 'cut and cut'. these two words have been the hallmark of our discussions in recent months, particularly when it came to the adoption of the multiannual financial framework. in this context, and in view of the fact that we are facing chronic funding shortfalls at all levels of funding in the european union, financial reporting and accountability activities are taking on real significance. i consider that mr stoloyan's report is important precisely because it emphasises the quality of the common financial reporting framework which is essential for our internal market and for the efficient functioning of the capital markets. as i have repeatedly stressed in my reviews of the various programmes and activities of the european union, it is crucial that all funds are spent in the best possible way and that maximum value is achieved for the money invested. that is why i strongly support the part of mr stoloyan's report which stresses that any beneficiary of funding from our community programmes must state in a publicly accessible place, such as a website, an annual report or a publication of a similar nature, that he has received funding from the european union budget and a detailed overview of other funding from alternative sources.
written. - i supported the report on the harmonisation of the laws of the member states relating to the availability of radio equipment on the market. the report amends the proposal of the european commission for the revision of the directive of 9 july 1999 on radio equipment and telecommunications terminal equipment and the mutual recognition of their conformity. the report on the directive shall cover the essential requirements for health and safety protection, electromagnetic compatibility and for the avoidance of harmful interference. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the definition of the concept of 'originating products' and the definition of the concept of 'originating products' and the definition of the concept of 'originating products' in accordance with article 4 of directive 2008/57/ec.
written. - the european union is the third largest mobile device market in the world, just behind china and india. the number of mobile devices has been growing exponentially for years, and 2014 is the year when the number of mobile phones on the planet is predicted to exceed the total population. these data are a clear indication that wireless communications have undergone a true technological revolution in the last few decades, and it certainly brings its own unique challenges. in the coastal area of croatia, where i come from, we are more than aware of the need for efficient and limited use of the radio spectrum. in summer, when temperatures are higher and the propagation of the signal is stronger, italian radio signals can be stronger than our national signals, which is a problem for the local population. this directive is a step forward in the harmonisation of the laws of the member states, at least as regards the placing on the market of devices, which will have to adhere to guidelines and directives that are consistent throughout the union. in addition, i would stress the importance of the amendment which obliges manufacturers to harmonise chargers for various mobile devices. as this is the first time that union legislation imposes such an obligation on producers, i consider this to be an important victory for consumer rights.
written. - i support the report by mrs weiler on the proposal from the european parliament and the council on the harmonisation of the laws of the member states relating to the making available on the market of radio equipment. the proposed amendments aim to simplify the directive and to strengthen the harmonisation of individual measures in key areas such as safety and health standards, electromagnetic compatibility and the impact of harmful interference. this will address the identified shortcomings and eliminate unnecessary administrative burden for operators and public authorities. the commission has also proposed to amend the rules on the protection of personal data by the member states in order to ensure that they are not used for the purposes of the criminal proceedings. over 185 million mobile phones are sold in the european union each year, half of which are replacement devices. as a result, over 50,000 tons of chargers are left out of use. in croatia, in the first half of 2013, over 550[nbsp]000 mobile phones were sold, of which almost 2/3 were smartphones. in total, this means one million new mobile devices in croatia each year and hundreds of tons of chargers that are no longer in use. the proposed harmonisation of the standard will reduce costs for consumers in the future, increase energy efficiency and significantly reduce the amount of e-waste. the overall measures proposed will strengthen stakeholders' and in particular consumers' confidence in the legislative framework and i therefore support the report.
written. - i support this proposal from the european parliament and the council on the harmonisation of the laws of the member states relating to the making available on the market of radio equipment. this directive is once again bringing legislation into line with new technologies. the number of mobile devices and wireless applications has grown tremendously in the last few years, and this creates a risk of interference between different products. therefore, the efficient use of radio spectrum is important. the directive also contains important provisions on health and safety, electromagnetic compatibility and harmful interference, addressing the operational shortcomings of the existing legislation. i welcome the fact that this proposal highlights the benefits of interoperability between radio equipment and accessories such as chargers. however, there is a need to renew the effort to introduce common chargers. this will be very beneficial for consumers because it will simplify the use of radio equipment, e.g. mobile phones, and reduce waste and costs.
written. - i support the amendment of the european commission's request to amend the directive of the european parliament and of the council on radio and telecommunications terminal equipment through a series of horizontal and vertical changes in order to avoid unnecessary administrative burden. the r&tte directive contains key recommendations for safety and security, electromagnetic compatibility and the avoidance of harmful interference. in order to ensure the efficient use of radio spectrum, the commission should develop a harmonised approach to the use of radio spectrum by member states. in order to ensure uniform conditions for the implementation of this directive, implementing powers should be conferred on the commission. those penalties should be effective, proportionate and dissuasive.
written. - i support the report by rapporteur rubial on the general guidelines for the 2015 budget. the report identifies the drivers of sustainable growth such as education, mobility, research and innovation, small and medium-sized enterprises, and emphasises that the main thrust of the new budget is to provide citizens with the means to overcome the crisis. unfortunately, we are facing a critical lack of funds at national and eu levels which can lead to difficulties in implementing certain programmes. in the context of the excessive deficit procedure, croatia has shown a determination to reduce the budget deficit in the coming periods and has shown a readiness to implement eu programmes contributing to increasing economic cohesion. i believe that in the period up to 2020, the european budget will be the foundation for the launch of economic activity, especially in the countries covered by the eu's cohesion policy, and i therefore support these budgetary guidelines to ultimately move closer to the europe 2020 goal.
written. - the eu budget must encourage strategic investment in member states' activities to put the european economy back on track, i.e. to create sustainable growth and employment opportunities with the aim of boosting competitiveness and increasing economic and social cohesion across the european union. that is why i support this resolution. given that the budget is being reduced in times of economic crisis both at the level of croatia and at the level of the eu as a whole, i believe that the costs must be carefully analyzed from the standpoint of sustainability and efficiency. investment funds are of particular importance, constituting one of the largest expenditures in the eu budget, and it is eu cohesion policy that has a key role to play in boosting public investment to deliver results in the economy and thus empower member states and help them to overcome the crisis. this appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the purchase, hire, maintenance and repair of equipment and installations, including the purchase of equipment and installations for the construction and operation of the railway network. in croatia, this would mean boosting competitiveness and, most importantly, creating new jobs, especially in terms of youth employment. it is also important to invest in future sectors such as renewable energy, infrastructure, communication technologies and long-term investments to strengthen the economy and create new jobs.
written. - i support the report in that it calls for all programmes and expenditure to be carefully analysed in terms of their sustainability, efficiency and effectiveness, provided that this does not constitute an additional bureaucratic burden, as i believe that, given the lack of funds and fiscal consolidation policies, it is necessary to focus on those programmes which will prove to be the most productive. that is why i agree with the resolution when it stresses the importance of decentralised agencies, because i believe they guarantee the implementation of european union programmes in the most efficient and cost-effective way. however, i am opposed to those guidelines which call for investment in, inter alia, mobility, which of course includes labour mobility, but also in the youth employment guarantee which also encourages the mobility of young unemployed people, because i believe that such an approach could reinforce an already worrying trend of brain drain from the poorest countries of the european union to the most developed. i therefore abstained on the report on the general guidelines for the preparation of the 2015 budget, part iii. commission.
written. - when it comes to the basic guidelines for our 2015 budget, i want to stress first and foremost how crucial it is that we don't throw our taxpayers' money away. i say this primarily because previous audits have already found that some programmes and programme activities have been affected by irregularities and irresponsible spending in recent years. it is our duty to reduce such irresponsible spending to a minimum through control and audit mechanisms, especially in a time of chronic lack of resources, both at the level of individual member states and at the level of the european union as a whole. on the other hand, as 2015 is in many ways the year of the real start of the new multiannual financial framework, it is of the utmost importance that member states, in cooperation with the european commission, launch all the key programmes as soon as possible so that delays in their launch do not have a negative impact on areas of key importance to our community. i am thinking above all of investing in competitiveness and job creation, supporting small and medium-sized enterprises and investing in innovation, research and young people. in conclusion, it is essential to resolve as soon as possible the delays in the payment of humanitarian aid programmes. such delays are inflicting immeasurable damage on our international reputation.
written. - the russian invasion is an act of aggression that violates the sovereignty and territorial integrity of ukraine and should be condemned in the strongest terms. in taking on and acting in this capacity, he has therefore actively supported actions and policies which undermine the territorial integrity, sovereignty and independence of ukraine, and further destabilised ukraine. in this conflict, the european union must take a clear and firm position that will be unequivocally supported by all its member states. we must do everything in our power to resolve this conflict peacefully so that the announced reforms in ukraine can be implemented and ultimately contribute to economic and financial stability. the key to a solution lies in constructive dialogue between all parties and respect for international law and obligations. i therefore support this resolution and hope that the european union will find a real solution to this conflict between ukraine and russia.
written. - the eu strongly condemns the violation of ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity. the government in moscow will bear the consequences in bilateral relations with the eu if the tensions that have arisen are not calmed. the eu threatens russia with three-stage sanctions: suspension of visa liberalization negotiations, asset freezes on as yet unidentified russian citizens and restrictions on their movement, and eu economic sanctions against russia if moscow continues its military invasion of eastern ukraine. the most important thing at the moment is to find a peaceful solution to this crisis, first and foremost through political dialogue, in compliance with international law. however, a solution must be based on the withdrawal of russian forces and the cessation of the threat of invasion of all of ukraine. it is impossible to see a solution without the withdrawal of russian forces from the territory of the independent european country of ukraine. there should be no repeat of the situation we have seen in the balkans or recently in georgia. a firm and united eu position is essential in condemning russian aggression against ukraine because i believe it is unacceptable for any country to invade another country under the pretext of protecting its citizens.
written. - as a member of the committee on constitutional affairs, which has followed the development of this report, and having regard to the recommendations of the committee on international trade, legal affairs and the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, i can state that i fully support the report of the parent committee in question. i believe that this report is a systematic review of the european parliament's role in the implementation of the treaty of lisbon. at a time when there is much talk of the success of the implementation of the treaty, it is important to raise issues related to the constitutionality and functioning of the european union, especially in view of the possible amendment of the treaty. in doing so, we must bear in mind the importance of the european parliament in the overall functioning of the union. since it derives its legitimacy from direct elections by the citizens, i welcome the findings of the report on parliament's role in reducing the democratic deficit among the union's institutions. i also agree with the rapporteur's higher-quality intention to highlight the importance of the lisbon treaty, which was originally conceived as a step towards greater transparency and democracy in decision-making. in this connection, i have repeatedly stressed the importance of revising and defining articles 290 and 291 tfeu in order to reduce factions between the institutions but also to increase legal certainty, and this report is based, among other things, on this thought.
written. - i welcome the implementation of the lisbon treaty in relation to the european parliament and i support the opinion of mr rangel. the lisbon treaty is of great importance because it strengthens the role of the european parliament. this report seeks to identify and assess problems with the implementation of the treaty of lisbon with regard to the rights of the european parliament. the report is also important because it focuses on the relationship between the european parliament and the commission and calls on national governments to clarify how they will show respect for the vote of citizens when nominating candidates for president of the commission. the strengthening of the european parliament's role in the process of electing the president and confirming the european commission deepens the democratic legitimacy of the european union.
written. - i support this report which aims to assess the success of the implementation of the lisbon treaty, analysing above all the implications of a major change in the interinstitutional relations between the european parliament and the commission, and giving greater powers to parliament itself. as the report itself stresses, the strengthening of democratic legitimacy, the commission's independence and the political role are needed to make the european elections themselves more relevant to all citizens of the european union. croatia is a young member of the european union and has had only one european election in which voter turnout was very low. if the president of the commission were also directly elected, the legitimacy and political role would be strengthened, and the elections themselves would be given greater importance, they would be more personalised. the commission will continue to support the development of the european parliament's role in the european union by providing it with the necessary resources to carry out its tasks. as the motto itself says, we must be united in our diversity, but we can only succeed if we work together in this direction from the very beginning, which means that we must also be united in the formation of the authorities as an essential form of integration into the european family.
written. - although at first sight the motion for a resolution seems to call for the high standards of democracy to be respected in the election and work of the european commission, it is clear that its sole task is to improve the prevailing bad image of the commission in the european public. and it's all very handy. first, the citizens were forced to accept the eurocrats, who were not elected to their important positions. given that most of our citizens have long lived in democratic societies, while others have fought for decades to live in a democracy so easily to be renounced, it is not surprising that people have been protesting more and more loudly. the answer to their demands is not to abolish the commission as an undemocratic body, but to give it legitimacy by electing the commission president to parliament and recommending that he be given greater freedom in choosing the commissioners and that they be chosen from among the members of parliament. what's that? what's that? it's a copy of the national government's election. it is the european federation. that's why i'm strongly against this resolution.
in writing. - recognised and registered property rights are an important catalyst for economic growth. the security of the property regime is a key factor in wealth creation and poverty reduction as it increases investment opportunities through access to capital and low-cost credit using land as collateral. property rights thus generate higher productivity and stimulate entrepreneurship, increasing opportunities for paid work, contributing to innovation and technological progress.
written. - i supported the report on the role of property ownership and wealth creation in eradicating poverty and promoting sustainable development because i believe that one of the global goals is to eradicate poverty in developing countries and establish the rule of law, especially in the area of real estate and property ownership.
written. - as explained in the report on the role of property ownership and wealth creation in poverty eradication and sustainable development, property rights can be defined as the rules governing the ways in which individual stakeholders, communities and public and private actors acquire and maintain access to tangible and intangible property through formal law or customary regulations. it is a worrying fact that 1.2 billion people worldwide are housed in property they do not have formal rights to and live without a permanent home or access to land. also, in rural areas, about 200 million people (almost 20% of the world's poor) do not have access to land large enough to earn a living. as agriculture is still the fundamental source of livelihoods for rural communities, i support the report by my colleague mr deve who believes that securing land rights and greater equality in access to land provides a secure basis for life, economic opportunities and, in rural areas, household food production.
written. - acquisition and maintenance of property rights is defined as a set of rules that prescribe the ways in which individual stakeholders, communities, and the public and private sectors acquire and maintain access to tangible or intangible property through formal law. the problem lies in the fact that as many as 1.2 billion people around the world live on property they don't own, and 200 million people in the world don't have access to enough land to earn a living because rural land is under pressure from population growth. land management is closely linked to the major challenges of the 21st century, namely food, energy, population growth, environment and climate change. it is also important to highlight the fact that women and spouses must have the same rights to own and acquire property, and that women's rights must be guaranteed by protecting this under-represented group from the risk of impoverishment and social exclusion. governments must act to identify and upgrade existing land tenure management systems for the benefit of the poor and vulnerable groups. land management needs to be decentralized to empower local communities and to root out corrupt practices. finally, courts in developing countries need to have a more effective application of property law to resolve land disputes.
written. - i support this report because i believe that the property rights declared are the basis of a functioning market economy, a condition for investment and economic growth and a guarantee of legal certainty. i also believe that property rights regulation will improve the business climate, stimulate entrepreneurship and encourage innovation in developing countries. on the other hand, it is indisputable that securing ownership rights will increase the level of responsibility of those who cultivate it and encourage long-term and sustainable investments in land. as regards the implementation of this objective, i particularly support this report as it calls for the provision of public land administration services at local level and calls for the reform of centralised state agencies, because i believe that security of land use will be more effectively ensured by the transfer of responsibility to local institutions. that is why i voted for this report.
written. - given the alarmingly growing numbers of people in the world who are homeless and living in facilities to which they have no formal rights for example, by 2050, as many as three billion people will be living in slums, it is imperative that the eu, as the world's leading development actor, contribute to solving land tenure issues, but for the benefit of the poor and vulnerable groups. in particular, by setting targets and subsidising biofuels, the eu contributes, at least indirectly, to land grabbing in developing countries by encouraging land-use speculation, especially in the most fertile parts and those close to ports and roads. the commission should be able to assess the impact of the aid on the environment and the environment protection of the union's forests, and to assess the impact of the aid on the environment and the environment. while private investors and governments are showing increasing interest in acquiring long-term leases on large tracts of arable land (in africa and latin america), the dispossession of the poorest is increasing, supported by the fact that 1.4 billion hectares worldwide are managed by uncontrolled, conventional standards and that systematic land reform is needed in much of the world. the eu must contribute to a faster resolution of this problem in order to eradicate corrupt practices imposed by local leaders.
written. - the report on policy coherence for development envisages new mechanisms for achieving political coherence in the european union. the european union is a unique political system in the world with highly complex decision-making procedures and a multitude of interests in the decision-making process. this report calls for the introduction of an eu-level arbitration system where the president of the european commission would decide on conflicting policies on the basis of european legislation. the report also calls for a stronger role for the european parliament, which, as a directly elected body, is desirable in order to protect the will of citizens. the role of citizens should also be strengthened through a system of complaints from the local level to the european institutions. i support this report because it calls for a greater role for citizens in shaping the policies of the european union and, by insisting on political coherence, creates the conditions for a more effective decision-making.
written. - i welcome any form of political consensus at eu level, as this is the best way for the eu to function successfully in the future. this report seeks to find a more coherent approach to reduce administrative costs and increase efficiency in the implementation of public policies. we are faced with a cycle of new public policies that require a special relationship between the political representatives who will implement them. all public policies implemented by the institutions of the european union require some kind of compromise because the european union is not homogeneous, on the contrary, it is highly heterogeneous in all areas. the commission should also be able to provide information on the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to third countries, including on the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to third countries. development is a common interest of the member states of the european union and for this reason we must protect in particular the interests of the countries which lag behind the richest countries in the european union. we also need to define clearly which issues will remain the responsibility of the member states and which will be the responsibility of the eu institutions. i believe that this report will make a significant contribution to establishing better communication between the conflicting political interests in the european union. on the basis of all the above, i support this report.
the idea of political coherence for development was first mentioned in the union's development policy in 2006. since then, it has become an important tool in the union's policy-making, and is mentioned in the lisbon treaty. the objective of policy coherence for development is to prevent inconsistencies arising from european policies in order to avoid negative consequences for developing countries. this report proposes several methods to optimise compliance. this has shown, for example, the need for an arbitration system entrusted to the president of the european commission, who would take full political responsibility for the guidelines of the different union policies in the event of divergence. i am particularly pleased that fisheries are among the priority areas of action and that the importance of harmonising standards for environmental and social sustainability and transparency in eu waters is highlighted.
written. - a vision of the european union based on solidarity, i.e. the elimination of all differences between poverty reduction within the union and poverty outside its borders, is precisely the driving force that can lead to overcoming the conflict of interests between the different policies of the union itself, and as a final result, to reconciling them with the development imperatives. harmonised policy is considered to be a global policy tool and process aiming at integrating the multiple dimensions of development into all policy development stages, and union policies themselves must be designed to meet the long-term needs of developing countries by combating poverty, ensuring social welfare and decent incomes and guaranteeing respect for fundamental human rights as well as economic and environmental rights. the european parliament itself, despite some progress, still needs to work on ensuring consistency and avoiding inconsistencies, all in order to fulfil the institutional role entrusted to it. the positive opinion on the report is based on the fact that the necessary teaching on how to integrate political coherence in the interest of developing the different policy areas has already been absorbed, and will culminate next year in raising awareness among european citizens in the context of 2015 european year of development by promoting public involvement in the relevant processes and activities of the issue under consideration.
written. - i support this report in that it calls for greater coherence of development policies by introducing appropriate mechanisms, such as an arbitration mechanism entrusted to the president of the european commission or an independent mechanism for collecting and formally handling complaints from citizens or communities affected by union policies, which should not presuppose the creation of new bodies or the creation of an additional administrative burden. on the other hand, i disagree with the report in that part where it calls for the management of migration flows to be aligned with the development policies of the eu and partner countries because i believe that issues related to migration flows must remain the responsibility of the member states. that's why i abstained.
written. - i support the motion for a resolution on the european union's priorities for the 25th session of the un human rights council, which was elected in 2013 by 14 new member states, including the republic of macedonia, whose entry into the council i particularly support. only by joint efforts and a clear stance of all eu member states can tangible results be achieved in the fight against human rights violations. it is the view of the european parliament that the standards for the admission of new member states to the un human rights council must be clearly defined and respected, and i express my concern about the human rights violations in a number of new member states and the need for a response to the current situation in syria. freedom of thought, religion and protection of the rights of the child are at the heart of the european union and i therefore support the eu's priorities to be highlighted at the upcoming session of the un human rights council in geneva.
written. - respect for and protection of the universality of human rights are one of the fundamental values of the european union and it is therefore the task of all member states to fight for their implementation. we are witnessing critical situations in many countries with grave consequences and an unacceptable number of victims, wounded and killed. in addition, citizens of many countries face unacceptable violence, torture and killings including those of the most vulnerable groups, namely women and children. i would also express concern about the human rights violations in a number of newly elected members of the unhcr, such as algeria, russia and saudi arabia. i welcome the country-specific issues in the report and call for a strong condemnation of all forms of human rights violations, support for conflict resolution and the need to ensure access to humanitarian aid. in conclusion, i support this report and agree that the visibility and impact of the european union as a global actor needs to be increased through the collective voice of all member states.
written. - i welcome these motions for resolutions and believe that the european union and its member states should speak out unanimously against human rights violations in order to achieve the best possible results. human rights violations are nothing more than a slightly fancy term for crimes committed by the state against its citizens, and i support the efforts of states with specific issues and hope for even better progress. i would like to draw particular attention to the violation of women's rights in croatia, to violence against women and in the family. although the legal framework in the republic of croatia has been improved, it is still not sufficient to address the issue of violence against women. the implementation of some measures is problematic, and in all counties there are not enough local and regional shelters with quality services for women and their children. i would also like to highlight the problem of women's participation in public and political life. the current legal provisions and national policy measures to promote gender equality are not adequately implemented in practice. at local level, the representation of women is also relatively low among mayors, mayors and their deputies. women predominate in the judiciary, primarily in lower courts (communal and criminal), while they are still underrepresented in managerial positions. so i think we really have to guarantee respect for human rights for all people without discrimination on any basis.
mr. president, the sinai is a volatile region through which asylum seekers, refugees, including children and women, try to escape the wars and barbarism that occur daily, especially in the horn of africa. the european parliament supports the efforts of the egyptian authorities to secure the area as much as possible. yet, each year thousands of refugees unfortunately end up in the hands of bedouin, who hold them in very poor conditions. in recent years, about 50,000 africans have crossed from the sinai to israel. it should be noted that many of these refugees were forced to leave their countries because they were christians. they are being victimized by islamic radicals and bedouin who are demanding large sums of money from them. the tragic confessions of refugees who endure a living hell as they make their way through the desert bear this out. therefore, i welcome any effort to raise awareness of this tragic story in the hope that our own will as well.
mr president, i support the proposed regulation, although it has certain shortcomings. i find the possibility of submitting applications via a single point of contact, or online portal, particularly useful as it is a good example of using advanced technologies to overcome administrative obstacles and constraints. the care and protection of the subjects of a clinical trial must be of particular importance to us at all times and i can only agree with the spirit of this proposal. however, i believe that concern for sick citizens and future patients who may be relieved or cured to some extent by a particular drug being tested should nevertheless restrict the rights of the participants in the trial. therefore, i cannot support the proposal in the part that allows for the withdrawal of the informed consent of the participant at any time and without explanation, and liability for the damage caused. i believe that this practice would potentially jeopardize a large number of clinical trials that not only cost a lot of money, but could result in tremendous benefits to the quality of life of our citizens.
mr. chairman, new drugs and treatments are saving lives. but to get a life-saving new medicine to patients, it must undergo clinical trial procedures that vary in complexity and length from one member state to another. the commission should be able to verify that the conditions for the authorisation of the active substance in question are met. the consequences of this are being felt by our patients, our health systems and our research and innovation sector. this is why it is necessary to harmonise and simplify the rules at european level and to reduce the amount of red tape. in doing so, it is essential to maintain a level of protection for the subjects whose health and life must take precedence over any possible scientific progress. that's a line you can't cross. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules on the application of this regulation. this will prevent research funds from being spent again on drugs and methods that have been proven ineffective. i support this directive and congratulate rapporteur willmott on her work.
mr. president, i cannot support this motion for a resolution, because i believe it sets the wrong priorities and objectives. from session to session in this house, we talk about various vulnerable groups, and i can't help but feel that few understand that the poor citizens are the most vulnerable group at this time, and that our priority is to create the conditions for economic recovery and growth so that they can live a life worthy of a human being. the recommendations of the immigration policy rapporteurs and the further accumulation of regulations and administrations at eu level will not contribute in any way to this. i am also disappointed that the rapporteurs did not mention croatia in the context of the enlargement of the schengen area, but only romania and bulgaria. croatia has the longest external land border and is under increasing pressure from growing illegal migration, drug and human trafficking and smuggling of counterfeit goods into the eu. i therefore believe that croatia should also be included in the schengen area without delay. mrs. redding, i wonder why not?
mr. president, i support any assistance we can provide to ukraine at this time. i hope we don't stop there and that our support for this country will become even more comprehensive. as regards this particular proposal, i believe that it proposes a good and constructive approach which allows ukraine to trade freely with europe, thereby guaranteeing easier and faster growth for the ukrainian economy and thus creating the conditions for a better standard of living for ukrainian citizens. on the other hand, the time limit for this regime and certain security mechanisms safeguard the interests of the union and our citizens, which i consider to be a mandatory prerequisite in relations with all third countries. but trade cooperation must be only the first step. i hope that the european union will be as constructive in its political support for ukraine and the ukrainian people and as visibly courageous in condemning the policies of conquest, and i believe that we have failed because of our vested interests.
madam president, the european union has a lot to do with everything that happened in ukraine and to ukraine. this is good, and it is, among other things, what the european union is for. of course we should have, and perhaps could have, helped earlier. this move of removing customs duties is one of the european actions of which i hoped there would be more, and as a matter of fact, i am sure there will be more. ukraine is faced with one of the crucial challenges in its history. it would be fundamentally wrong to press the nation now with all types of restrictions popularly called austerity policy. they have paid enough already. let the banks and the international monetary fund wait. people have to survive.
mr president, i welcome any initiative aimed at combating various forms of financial crime, which of course includes tax evasion and other fraud affecting the financial interests of the state. however, as i have already stressed on several occasions in this house, i believe that member states, while establishing an effective system for investigating and prosecuting such criminal acts, must work to reduce the tax burden on citizens and businesses. the commission considers that the measures in question are imputable to the state and that the commission has not found any evidence that the measures in question constitute state aid. as a legislator, this house must keep in mind that any citizen forced to choose between paying unreasonably high taxes to the state and feeding his family will choose the latter. it's a survival instinct that no system has ever beaten, and neither will the most perfect european financial control system.
mr president, the commission estimates that tax evasion and fraud cost the european union approximately eur 2 000 per capita, that is, every living citizen, including us here. we discussed a few months ago the hercules iii programme, how to protect better and more effectively the money belonging to the citizens of the european union and the member states. i'm afraid the multitude of resolutions and reports only clouds the issue. the problem is not attitudes, attitudes are good for us, but implementation. the reports we get, say, for 2011 and 2012, don't differ much. money is too little, too concentrated in too few hands in europe, and european funds as well as state-owned assets look vast and not very well guarded. on the other hand, taxpayers' money should be protected with respect for human rights, especially privacy. so obviously we need more europe.
the question he raised by raising his blue card. madam president, i am not an expert on greenhouse gas emissions, but having followed developments in this field for decades, i believe that, and perhaps my colleague, the previous speaker, will support me in this, that is my question: by setting up legislation, by taking various measures, is the issue of the spiritual ecology perhaps very important and neglected in all our actions, perhaps at a global level, not just in the european union?
on behalf of the s&d club. mr president, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs for the good cooperation and the quick compromises. i would like to stress that a functioning payment system is essential for the european union's single market and interchange fees are currently an obstacle to such a functioning. today, the european union is divided into 28 national markets with different fees. the fees vary from 0,1 in some member states to more than 1,5 in others. the use of card payments should be facilitated for the benefit of consumers and retailers in order to create a single, transparent and competitive market in the european union. the regulation will avoid different approaches in the member states, which have mainly been to the detriment of consumers. at the level of the european internal market, the introduction of the smp cap means, in addition to lower prices, savings of up to eur 3 billion per year for large retail chains or up to eur 6 billion in operating costs. of course, if existing restrictions are removed and practices are harmonized.
mr president, the proposal stresses the importance of mediation and dialogue in conflict prevention and peaceful resolution and points out that parliament's participation in mediation in ukraine has shown that parliamentarians can play an important role in this area. in view of the outcome of the ukrainian crisis, i do not see parliament playing a particularly important role and i myself am a signatory of the joint resolution on russia's invasion of ukraine in which we recognised and clearly defined crimea as an integral part of ukraine, but the union did nothing to ensure that crimea really remained an integral part of that country. there is still a lot of talk and a lot of beating in europe's chest, but unfortunately the heart of europe has stopped. i just don't know if it's fear or some particular interest. since the beginning of the 1990s and the serbian aggression against croatia and bosnia and herzegovina, the institutional framework of the union's external action has made considerable progress, but as we see, the effectiveness has not.
in order to speak of the development of the common foreign and security policy, the european union's reaction to the events in ukraine and the russian aggression in crimea must be assessed. i believe that the response has been delayed and ineffective. first, there is the time factor. mrs estones, you must ensure that the foreign ministers agree their position immediately, regardless of whether the crisis comes on holiday or outside working hours. the situation in crimea, which began on saturday, is unacceptable, but the foreign ministers of the member states did not meet in brussels until late monday afternoon. in 2008, when russia invaded georgia, it was on a holiday during the olympic games, and the european union's reaction was just as strong. second, the efficiency. i believe that at the very beginning of the crisis, at least the threat of severe sanctions against the russian presidential administration, russian cabinet members, gazprom and rosneft executives and their families, could have prevented russia from further escalation in crimea. it is well known how much the russian elite likes to relax, shop and study in our member states. without sanctions like these, which the ruling circles feel every day, our actions will not change moscow's policy. it is not for nothing that the ukrainian ambassador to the european union has called the current sanctions a code of conduct. do we really want to continue to be like the goats whose calls are not heard? we need to move faster towards a really effective foreign and security policy. thank you.
mr. president, mrs. ashton, you have made a recap of your five years in office. i'll just focus on events in southeastern europe. i want to mention here, of course, the agreement between serbia and kosovo. here, the european union has shown that it can have one leadership, that it can succeed, unlike the situation 25 years ago. in that sense, of course, i would like to commend you for your key role in this. but on the other hand, you yourself mentioned that bosnia and herzegovina remains the biggest challenge and here it should also be said that the vacuum of the last 5 years, the absence of an articulated common european policy has led me to two things. on the one hand, it has strengthened the influence of those countries outside the european union on the situation in bosnia and herzegovina itself, which has not always been positive. we have seen that the european union's position on the situation in crimea has not been shared by bosnia and herzegovina and serbia, for example. on the other hand, we have seen that this vacuum has led to the continuation, now of course by political methods, of the struggles of the 1990s between those forces of separatism and those forces of centralism. the european union has a duty to help bosnia and herzegovina to develop its economic and social cohesion, and to ensure that the european union is able to play a full part in the process of achieving this.
mr president, it is indeed impossible to analyse the common foreign and security policy in isolation from the other policies of the union, since they often strongly condition it. i therefore support the implementation of a comprehensive approach in the union's external relations. the key instruments are those linking conflict prevention, crisis management, peacebuilding, development cooperation and strengthening strategic partnerships. i regret that this approach is not supported by a sufficiently ambitious budget for the next seven years. although the lisbon treaty contains many novelties, there is a notable lack of progress in the consistency of the union's external action in areas related to development, trade, energy, the environment, migration and other global issues. the lisbon treaty was an opportunity for real implementation reform of the common foreign and security policy. however, the fact remains that any eu policy can be skewed against the interests of individual states, often under the pressure of a veto mechanism. and this severely limits the european union's relations with other coherent global players. the dilemma remains: eu soft power vs. global hard choices. the eu is not a force for good.
mr president, the european union's common foreign policy is a vague and somewhat hazy concept. and the word coherence certainly cannot be applied to her. common positions rarely exist, except at the declarant level, and positions are defined mainly by the so-called large member states representing their economic interests and over time by smaller ones. so there is no fairness. and neither is strength. that's how they see us. the situation in bosnia, the position in macedonia, and especially the russian invasion of ukraine confirm this. we don't have a solution. we use diplomacy as our only weapon, and the economic strength of the european union - our only real weapon - our division remains always in reserve. together, the european union certainly has the potential to make a serious impact on the world around it. this way, in particular, we become frivolous and untrustworthy and that's how we feel.
written. the development of a new multipolar international scene with new actors leads us to apply different, improved approaches to foreign policy. i believe that with an adequate way of communicating and promoting the eu's interests, with an emphasis on maintaining stability on the global stage, we can adequately deal with the new order and disputes that are emerging on the international scene. in other words, by strengthening cooperation and coordination between relevant partners, we want to establish a more transparent exchange of information and to firmly root the concept of an integrated holistic approach in external action. the present interdependence between countries shows us the extreme importance of cooperation and that only by joint efforts and cooperation can we achieve the desired goal. humanitarian action is also a certain responsibility that we must be aware of and it is necessary to help in crisis situations those who are in need. therefore, we must not discount the importance of this role and that early warning analysis is an indispensable item needed for progress. overall, i believe that the proposal is a step forward and will provide the coherence of external action that we need at the moment.
written. - in the last budget period, the european social fund withdrew 8% of the eu budget. it is a key financial instrument for achieving better employment and social inclusion at eu level. the average age of the eu population is increasing, and so is the number of 'older workers', defined as those aged between 55 and 65. sadly, during the economic crisis, many older workers lost their jobs. the commission has also concluded that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of article 107 (3) (c) of the treaty. also, some professions for which people have been educated become obsolete. that is why lifelong learning programmes are so important. statistics show that only 5% of senior workers are involved in such programs. the european social fund is needed to tackle this problem.
written. - older workers and longer working lives can make a positive contribution to recovery and future economic growth through their experience if these facts are used in the best possible way. this can have multiple benefits, such as active retention of individual workers in the labour market and the use of acquired knowledge when changing jobs. lifelong learning should be supported in terms of the acquisition of new qualifications and technical skills such as computer skills and foreign languages. lifelong learning should become the norm among older, working-age populations with continuous monitoring, assessment and improvement. in order to assess the effectiveness and transparency of the efs funding, information on the programmes funded and the allocated funds must be easily accessible to citizens. the key to increasing the impact for growth and job creation is to successfully establish a strong performance framework with clear and measurable objectives that contribute to accountability and bottom-line results. finally, staying on the market to enable workers to remain active beyond the retirement age requires a mutual effort by the commission and the eu member states.
written. - it is difficult to assess the success of the european social fund precisely, as it is difficult to establish a causal link between the acquisition of qualifications or the finding of a job and measures financed by the european social fund. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the environment and its implementation in the member states. the monitoring and evaluation of the programme's performance remains a major task for the commission and proper reporting with key and standardised performance indicators should be integrated into a common performance framework for this measure for the next period from 2014 to 2020. despite the lack of monitoring and measurement of performance, i welcome this fund as a hugely important social aspect of the european union as a european project of solidarity.
written. - given the changing profile of europe's workforce, supporting older workers is becoming increasingly important, and i therefore welcome this report. i also believe that decisive responses should be offered to enable older workers to remain active in the labour market beyond the retirement age if they so wish. i believe that an older workforce and longer working lives can make a positive contribution to recovery and future growth, as they are crucial for the transfer of knowledge and experience to younger generations. unemployment in croatia is recorded in 'black numbers' whether it is young or older people. the sharp decline in the competitiveness of the croatian economy has caused a number of redundancies among older workers in the labour force. that is why i support this report and hope that better communication between the institutions and the member states will be achieved, so that this problem can be tackled as efficiently and as quickly as possible.
written. - this report has my support because it examines the tools currently used to monitor the part of the european social fund that is spent on older workers. i agree with the parts of the report that point to the shortcomings in the implementation of the european social fund, in particular the lack of information in the member states of the union on the status of older workers and the effectiveness of actions relating to their needs, and on whether the way the money is spent is correct. in particular, i agree with the part of the report that calls for the establishment of a programming period (2014-2020-) during which clear causal links between the actions undertaken and the defined objectives should be defined and, more importantly, a better monitoring system should be put in place that could correct the programmes in case the established objectives are not achieved.
written. - mr mario borghezio, member of the european parliament, has requested the protection of his parliamentary immunity in relation to a procedure whereby members of the european parliament may not be subject to any form of interrogation, detention or judicial proceedings for opinions expressed or votes cast in the performance of their duties. i agree that members of the european parliament enjoy the right to freedom of speech, but that right does not allow slander, insult, incitement to hatred and insulting the honour of others, which is what happened in this case. that's why i supported the recommendation not to activate deputy protection for representative borghez.
written. - in light of the criminal proceedings being conducted in the italian court in milan for discriminatory statements, i support this request. mario borghelzija, a member of the european parliament, insulted members of the roma community in an interview and caused irreparable damage. all members of the european parliament must enjoy freedom of speech as a matter of principle, but this right to freedom of speech does not condone slander, incitement to hatred, racial hatred, discriminatory ideas based on superiority. i am of the opinion that the protective parliamentary immunity should not apply to statements made outside parliament, and i do not condone any statements which encourage discrimination, whether on the grounds of sex or race, as is the case now. i also hope that mr borghezzi's case will serve as an example and a reminder to other members of the european parliament that freedom of speech cannot be based on hate speech and that we must all take action to ensure that such incidents are kept to a minimum, both in parliament and in the daily lives of the citizens of the european union.
written. - the report proposes to waive the immunity of mario borghezio, an italian lawmaker who has been accused of making scandalous racist statements about the roma population on an italian radio program. since the purpose of the provision on the immunity of members is to ensure that members enjoy freedom of speech which does not at the same time give them the right to defame, insult and incite hatred, i fully support the rapporteur's proposal that the immunity and privileges of member borghezio not be protected.
written. - i have supported the draft report by member of parliament kristiine ojuland with the proposal for a european parliament recommendation to the council on the introduction of common visa restrictions for russian officials involved in the sergei magnitsky case. we are witnessing a time when russia, although a member of several international organisations such as the council of europe, the organisation for security and cooperation in europe and the united nations, is violating the fundamental principles of respect for the protection of human rights and freedoms and the rule of law, although it has committed to a completely different behaviour by joining them. the arrest and subsequent death in custody of sergei magnitsky is one such case. as a well-documented case, it is eerily reminiscent of the situation in russia, which the eu rightly sees as increasingly in need of a policy of intervention with a rigorous, comprehensive and firm approach, which croatia is supporting and will certainly adopt in due course. the measure proposed by the ojuland report should also help to bring about sanctions by the international community. visa restrictions are not a traditional judicial penalty, but as a political sign of the eu's concerns, they are also a legitimate foreign policy instrument expressed by the eu institutions in line with council of europe standards. the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms in russia contains numerous flaws that a country that is a member of respectable institutions for their protection should not allow.
the arrest and death in custody of sergei magnitsky is an important example of the violation of fundamental human rights in russia. as a member of the council of europe, russia has committed itself to full respect for fundamental rights and the rule of law. accordingly, i support this proposal for a recommendation to the council on the introduction of common visa restrictions for russian officials involved in the case, as well as the initiative to create a coherent and proactive stance on other serious human rights violations in russia.
written. - the case of sergei magnitsky is just one in a series of examples of how russia deals with its unwelcome citizens. we cannot change russia, nor do we have the courage, nor the capacity. it is also interesting that in this document you mention that the eu has offered its assistance in the modernisation of the judicial system. i don't think russia needs our help in that context because there's no strong political will for such a modernization. it is clear that the posthumous tax evasion trial is a political ploy to show how others will get away with it if they choose to go against the current government. i think that the visa restrictions for the above mentioned people will not change anything, it will only show that the eu has no instruments with which to sanction russia.
written. - the united nations is an international organization for the maintenance of world peace and security, the development of good-neighbourly relations, economic cooperation, the spread of tolerance and the promotion of respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. a key aspect of the european union's foreign policy is based on the conviction that an effective system of multilateral relations is needed to achieve common goals and to address global crises and threats. a stable relationship between the european union and the united nations is necessary for the work of the united nations in three key areas: peace and security, human rights and development. human rights and democracy are fundamental values of the union and principles and objectives of european external action. as a member of the group of the party of european socialists, i believe that it is essential to strengthen international efforts to ensure that all human rights as agreed in the united nations conventions are respected. it is important to promote the integration of human rights and fundamental freedoms into all aspects of the union's work. furthermore, as a member of envi, i believe it is essential to build a solid foundation for successful negotiations and continued progress in the field of emission reduction and environmental protection. the 2015 unfccc will need to strengthen strategies to continue to take care of the environment responsibly. in conclusion, i support this report.
written. - i support the european union's efforts to promote solutions to crises and global threats. there are many challenges that we face and that we will face in the future. the state of war in syria, south sudan and the continuing tensions in the middle east require a great deal of effort on the part of all and should certainly be pursued to find a multilateral solution. the syrian refugee crisis requires greater attention to humanitarian action and diplomatic, i.e. political, channels. according to the latest unhcr figures, the number of syrian refugees exceeded 2.5 million in march. i have stressed in my earlier speeches that the union must have clear positions in the geopolitical sphere. by entering into force of the treaty of lisbon and by establishing the institution of the high representative for foreign affairs and security policy and by appointing the special representative for human rights, the union is making it clear that it does not want to be a passive observer.
written. - the united nations general assembly is a unique place where 193 countries engage in multilateral discussion on a whole range of issues from diplomacy and international relations to development and the future of the entire world. the 69th session addressed important issues of the day - from the guarantee of civil privacy, which has become a burning issue due to recent discoveries, to climate change, which has been a challenge to society for years. sustainability was arguably the main theme of this assembly, not only in terms of sustainable development and ecology, but also in terms of resolving long-standing and unfortunately often bloody conflicts from south sudan and the central african republic to the gaza strip and the west bank. i support the report and my support for the fight against discrimination and the fight against the death penalty and torture around the world.
written. - i have endorsed the draft report of representative alexander count lambsdorff on the 69th session of the united nations general assembly. multilateral relations as an integral part of the eu's external policy are essential to achieve common objectives and to address global crises, challenges and threats. i support increased efforts to achieve the millennium development goals by 2015 and, in this regard, actively promote the united nations to explore to what extent the rule of law can be linked to current views on the post-2015 mdgs. i agree that the un should ensure that the prevention and cessation of genocide and mass atrocities is primarily the responsibility of the state concerned, but also that the international community has a role to play that replaces the appeal to sovereignty. i also agree that the icc should be given full support and remain vigilant against any attempt to undermine its legitimacy. among other points in this draft, i also support efforts to ensure equal rights online and offline, and accordingly a review of procedures, practices and legislation, emphasising the importance of data protection and effective oversight mechanisms. the most critical areas of the conflict in syria, south sudan, the central african republic and the israeli-palestinian conflict, which require the investment of international solidarity by the un, must not be forgotten.
the 69th session of the united nations is scheduled for 16 september 2014. ugandan president sam kutesa was nominated as the new president, following unanimous support from the executive council of the african union. although the exact timetable for the session has not yet been set, the report contains a number of recommendations which the rapporteur considers should be a priority for the european parliament. while i agree with the rapporteur's proposal which aims to strengthen legitimacy, regional representativeness, accountability and effectiveness, i cannot agree with the amendment incorporated in the committee which seeks a single seat for the eu in the united nations security council. that's why i voted against it.
written. - in today's globalized world, it is very important to convey accurate and objective information. the media therefore play an important role in shaping public opinion. to ensure accurate, objective and timely reporting to the public, we must make a strong effort to preserve the independence and professionalism of the media. by encouraging independent and objective media, we also encourage a high-quality exchange of views that can make a significant contribution to reaching consensus on key issues debated by the european parliament, but also by other eu institutions. quality reporting is important because it also influences the decisions made in this home. only with accurate and timely information can we make good decisions. investing in the modernisation of the media will also bring the eu institutions closer to the citizens and make their voices heard. the media must be the bridge between the citizens of the european union and its institutions. the conditions for financing electronic and other media must include high european standards that providers of such services must meet, as this is the only way we can ensure the promotion of european values.
written. - the media are certainly an important tool of the european union's diplomatic activities, which can promote the fundamental democratic values that are also the union's fundamental values. it is precisely because of their importance that the regulation of how the media are used and financed must be clearly defined, which is why i support mr watson's report. in the context of this discussion, i would like to mention a specific example of euronews. it is commendable that the current programme in 13 languages, some of which are not official eu languages, reaches 400 million households in 155 countries and that 3.5 billion people 'understand euronews'. in times of mass shutdowns or mergers of information services in the eu as a cost-saving measure, a new service is offered that is already largely covered. at the same time, news from the eu is not promoted in all eu member states. the european union can and should have a media presence on the global stage, but first it must ensure that it is present in all member states and that all relevant information is accessible and understandable to all its citizens.
written. - this report makes a number of suggestions on how the eu can improve the effectiveness of electronic media as a means of promoting its objectives, both within the union and beyond. broadcasting media play a central role in the functioning of modern democratic societies, and in particular in the development and transmission of social values. the broadcasting sector has therefore been subject to special regulation in the public interest from the very beginning. this was based on shared values such as freedom of expression and the right to reply, pluralism, copyright protection, the promotion of cultural and linguistic diversity, the protection of minors and human dignity, and consumer protection. while i support the broad principles of pluralistic electronic media in defence of freedom of expression and objective news gathering, in particular financially sustainable and independent public broadcasting, i believe that broadcasting should be a competence of the member states. also, in times of difficult financial situation in europe, i do not support the initiative to move the headquarters of euronews from lyon to brussels.
written. - city life has its advantages, but the noise of motor vehicles is certainly not one of them. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the establishment of a european works council. the european commission has proposed ambitious amendments to the existing directive with significant commitments to reduce noise levels from cars, trucks, vans and buses by 2021. i think the noise reduction targets that were voted on could have been a few decibels quieter, but the compromise that was reached is still a step forward. i welcome the obligation that, in order to protect the blind and visually impaired, electric and other quiet vehicles must be factory-made noisier from 2021. i believe that the automotive industry and drivers will have plenty of creative ideas about what sounds they want their cars to produce. in conclusion, i support this directive because in the future cars will be silent. not as much as the sleepless citizens would like, but still quieter than it is now.
written. - traffic is a very complex source of noise because it depends on a multitude of factors such as the number and type of vehicles, the type and speed of the roads, the weather conditions and so on. noise as such is most pronounced in motor vehicles, mainly due to engine noise (which depends on the number of revs and the characteristics of the engine itself) and to the intake and exhaust systems, fans and tyres (which depends on the speed of driving). if other environmental impacts are ignored, on rural roads traffic noise is not as much of a problem as in cities where, due to relatively short distances and relatively high traffic density and the inability to build adequate protection (e.g. hedges and embankments), noise can have a very negative impact on residents and the environment. in this respect, i fully agree that the permissible noise level should be regulated, of course in accordance with the capabilities of motor vehicles. in addition, the commission should be able to assess the impact of the noise reduction measures on the safety of pedestrians and cyclists, and in particular on the vulnerable groups of blind and partially sighted persons, by taking into account the need to ensure that the noise reduction measures are effective and proportionate.
written. - i supported the recommendation of the second reading by mr ouzkýi on the council's position at first reading with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the noise level of motor vehicles and replacement silencing systems. noise pollution is becoming a growing problem in urban areas. as research progresses, there is a significant need to strengthen the protection of eu citizens. it is estimated that one fifth of eu citizens suffer from noise pollution that scientists consider inadequate, and 50% of citizens in urban areas are exposed to noise above 55 db. the proposed regulation aims to reduce road noise for passenger and goods vehicle categories in three phases, the first of which starts in 2017. its application will thus limit the noise of passenger motor vehicles to 68 db over time. research from croatia shows that traffic noise has increased eightfold in urban centers since the beginning of the 20th century, and 80[nbsp ]% of noise in urban environments is caused by traffic. significantly, as much as half the noise is caused by road traffic. i believe that the regulation addresses the key problems of noise in urban areas and therefore i support the proposed recommendation of my colleague ouzkýi for the second reading and the regulation whose implementation will reduce the noise caused by road traffic and thus improve the lives of the citizens of the union.
written. - on 9 november 2011, the commission's proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the noise level of motor vehicles was adopted. the aim of the proposal is to protect public health and the environment by reducing the noise level of motor vehicles. i agree with this proposal because the provision of information to consumers by the manufacturer at the point of sale achieves better information and awareness of the consumer about the vehicle in question, and thus they can decide whether they want to be a cause of noise on the roads.
written. - although the development of the automotive and related industries has done much to reduce noise pollution, i believe that continuous improvement is needed both technologically and in legislation. that's why i'm supporting this report. the aim of this report is to protect public health and the environment by reducing the noise level of motor vehicles. it lays down a series of limit values applicable to motor vehicles divided by their purpose into three basic categories. it also points to the importance of adequate labelling and consumer information at the point of sale and on technical promotional materials. i would also stress the importance of protecting blind and disabled people by installing special alarm systems, especially when it comes to new generation cars such as electric and hybrid vehicles. furthermore, i believe that the quality and category of the road are important factors in reducing noise levels and that appropriate communication with the member states would contribute to solving this problem.
- establish computerised databases as part of surveillance networks in the member states, allowing the animal population to remain under 100% control throughout its lifetime. under regulation (ec) no 1760/2000 laying down a system for the marking and registration of bovine animals, beef and beef products and in accordance with directive 64/432 / eec, member states have developed computerised databases containing information on bovine animals on their territory. however, the computerised databases referred to in that directive do not take into account the emergence of new technologies for the electronic identification of bovine animals. it is therefore necessary to amend this directive. the electronic identification system is based on a self-awakening biocompatible transponder that is applied only once in a lifetime. it contains a 16-bit code that is an identification of each individual animal, like an id card. the use of an electronic marking system would lead to automated and more accurate reading and entry in the farm register. it would also allow the automatic entry of animal movement data into a computerised database, thereby improving the speed, reliability and accuracy of the tracing system. in conclusion, i do not support this report because i believe that the introduction of mandatory electronic identification should be considered. the five-year period for the transition to optional electronic identification is not, in my view, ambitious enough.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, which is in line with the report on the electronic identification of cattle and which deals specifically with the computerized data and monitoring networks. in the interests of simplification and in order to reduce bureaucracy to a minimum, i believe that it is necessary to encourage the progressive and harmonious development of electronic identification technology and also to adapt the principles of data collection in question by making them compatible with methods of identifying cattle.
written. - i supported the report on the establishment of a system for the identification and registration of bovine animals, in connection with the marking of beef and beef products. member states have set up computerised databases containing information on bovine animals on their territory. the databases still do not take into account emergency situations for the electronic identification of bovine animals and this leads to certain gaps in the updating of the technology itself, i.e. the databases. accordingly, amendments should be made to successfully align the marking of bovine animals with newly introduced technologies. the objective is to enable the availability of data and the accurate and timely availability of all information related to the registration and marking of bovine animals in the member states, thereby achieving both the objectives of registration of bovine animals and the updating of data by each member state within its database.
written. - until now, the minimum information that the competent authority had to keep in its database was the unique identification code of the animal, the date of birth, the sex, the type and colour of the animal's fur, the identification code of the mother, the place of birth and the place where it was kept with the dates from when to when and the date of death. in order to ensure that the information provided by the competent authority in the member state concerned is not used for the identification of animals, the competent authority should be able to provide information on the animals in the member state concerned. although the use of electronic identification of livestock will become more common, i do not support such a change because i believe that the application of this proposal would not benefit many farmers.
written. - i support this regulation because it guarantees transparency and protects food safety, which is very important for all eu citizens. the union citizens must have at their disposal all information concerning the composition of the product, the manufacturer, the storage and preparation methods. this regulation introduces the eid as a means of identifying bovine animals in addition to existing marking methods, thereby supporting the development of new technologies and innovation. it is also necessary to adapt the principles governing the collection of such data in order to make the system compatible with both methods of identification of bovine animals. this should allow for the creation of single computerised databases that are part of the network surveillance in the member states. in the interest of simplification and the desire to reduce bureaucratic burden, i consider this regulation to be a step forward.
written. - i support this proposal because the proposed amendments to the current computer data regulation relating to network monitoring in the member states are necessary to implement the new rules on electronic identification of bovine animals and to delete the provisions on voluntary marking of bovine animals which i advocated. for reasons of consistency and in order to effectively implement the amendments to regulation (ec) no 1760/2000 as regards the electronic identification of bovine animals and the deletion of the provision on voluntary marking of beef, i voted in favour of this proposal.
madam president, the economic interests of the european union are of paramount importance and it is necessary to establish appropriate instruments to enable the rights and the appropriate conditions to be achieved in the framework of international trade agreements. it is important to ensure flexibility, efficiency within the time limits and procedures defined by international trade agreements. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 264 concerning the format and content of the information to be provided to the european parliament and to the council. efficiency is also important in cases where essential raw materials are involved which may adversely affect european industrial and economic interests. it is of the utmost importance to harmonise the levels of protection of measures and concessions under international and trade agreements and to encourage third countries with which agreements are being established to introduce measures to improve trade. i support the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the exercise of the union's right to apply and enforce international trade rules, as this will greatly increase the union's ability to pursue its economic interests.
the european union currently lacks a horizontal legal framework for implementing its rights under the wto and other international trade agreements. at a time when third countries are introducing restrictive trade measures, appropriate instruments are needed to ensure the swift and effective enforcement of eu rights under international trade agreements and ultimately to convince our business partners to respect the rules as laid down in free trade agreements. the dispute settlement mechanisms under the wto and other regional or bilateral agreements seek to find a positive solution to all disputes between the eu and other signatories to those agreements. however, the union should suspend concessions or other obligations, in accordance with those dispute settlement rules, if other possibilities to seek a positive settlement of the dispute have proved unsuccessful. the measures taken by the union in such cases seek to encourage the third countries concerned to comply with the relevant international trade rules in order to restore a situation of mutual benefit. i believe that the mere existence of this regulation will dissuade our business partners from disregarding international trade rules, and the use of mechanisms will be only an exception.
written. - the rapidly growing economy and its inclusiveness will undoubtedly strengthen the union's credibility and it is therefore necessary to confront illegal actions coming from countries where international trade is crucial to the economy. in order to safeguard its economic interests in international trade agreements, it is crucial that the eu has the appropriate laws. the commission therefore concluded that the measures in force are in line with the principles of the union state aid rules. the commission should be able to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu in order to amend this regulation by supplementing it with new provisions. the mechanisms available to the eu should serve the purpose of improving international relations and resolving disputes to the mutual benefit in the most effective way. the commission has not found any evidence that the measures in force in the prc are likely to have a significant impact on the situation of the union industry. the regulation should allow the european union to establish a full and effective framework for taking action without delay.
written. - i agree with the rapporteur that the proposal should be revised in terms of scope, available countermeasures and the role of parliament. in this respect, a structured and systematic exchange of information between the commission and parliament should be provided for, where possible without delaying the decision-making process, as the ordinary legislative procedure is excessively slow for many cases of implementation of trade rules on average from one year to as many as 31 months after the decision. it is important that the european union should receive a horizontal instrument as soon as possible as it does not yet have a horizontal legislative framework to strengthen the application of union trade laws towards trading partners. i think that even the very existence of such regulation would prevent many violations of trade agreements, because it would bring stability and security into the system.
written. - i support the report by mr rinaldi because the adoption of this regulation is necessary for the union to safeguard its economic interests when they are threatened by third countries, usually by restrictive trade measures. this regulation is necessary to enable the union to react quickly and flexibly within the time limits and procedures provided for in international agreements. in accordance with those agreements and the proposed regulation, i support the use of less stringent measures first against third countries and then, if those countries do not make appropriate and proportionate adjustments, more stringent measures. i support the extension of the application of this regulation to a fast-growing area of services, where the union will increasingly need to protect its rights and interests. in order to resolve disputes with third countries effectively, i consider that a dialogue between the commission and parliament is of the utmost importance, as it would benefit not only from the immediate resolution of the dispute, but also from the adoption of an appropriate policy for that country. finally, i consider that the existence of this document and its application would have a preventive effect towards third countries which would be less likely to breach their obligations.
written. - it is crucial that the union has the appropriate instruments to effectively exercise its rights under international trade agreements to protect its economic interests. this proposal is also an element of the strategy to open up new markets for the eu. the choice of measures aimed at ensuring the effective enforcement of union law should take into account their ability to encourage the third countries concerned not only to comply with the rules of international trade but also to facilitate the situation of economic operators and member states. i believe that the union should always use the most effective dispute settlement mechanism at its disposal. it is crucial for the union to be able to exercise its public procurement rights swiftly if one of the signatories fails to comply with its obligations under the wto agreement on government procurement or under any bilateral or regionally binding agreement. union action should aim at maintaining essentially the same level of concessions in the area of public procurement. this regulation should allow the union to establish a complete and effective framework for taking action without delay. i believe that the proposed regulation should ensure a structured and systematic exchange of information between the commission and parliament, without slowing down the decision-making process.
written. - the common commercial policy has become one of the eu's most important policies, defining the union's bilateral relations with third countries and multilateral organisations (wto). this proposal is an element for creating new eu markets and i support it as such. the proposal strengthens the enforcement of eu trade rights and reinforces the eu's credibility in order to convince trading partners to respect the rules of the game as set out in free trade agreements. it is crucial that the union has the appropriate instruments to effectively exercise its rights under international trade agreements in order to safeguard its economic interests. the eu currently does not have a horizontal legal framework to enforce its rights under the wto and other international trade agreements and it is crucial that a horizontal instrument is adopted as soon as possible in order to enable the union to react quickly and flexibly within the procedures and deadlines set by the agreements. the proposal would also improve the exchange of information between parliament and the commission without delaying decision-making. the commission should regularly inform the eu parliament of its intention to implement trade policy measures under this proposal.
written. - i supported the report because i consider the outcome of the trialogue to be balanced and satisfactory and in line with the principle of proportionality, as it proposes the most effective mechanism for dispute settlement at union level. i agree with the rapporteur that the possibility of rapid exercise of public procurement rights is of crucial importance for the union. i also support the call on the commission to engage regularly in an exchange of views on the conduct of trade disputes and the impact on union industries with the competent committee of the european parliament (inta). that's why i voted yes.
written. - i support the report on the import of rice originating in bangladesh. although this is mostly a formal legislative procedure, i particularly welcome the amendment which emphasises that eu trade with bangladesh must be aligned with the eu's development cooperation objectives, namely the promotion of sustainable development and good governance in developing countries and poverty eradication. i would also like to express my support for the liberalisation of the european union's trade relations with the least developed countries and for the alignment of the acquis with articles 290 and 291 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
written. - i supported the report of congressman paul murphy on the import of rice originating in bangladesh. the union's policy on development cooperation is to be conducted within the framework of the principles and objectives of the union's external action, in accordance with article 208 of the treaty on european union. the commission has also received comments from the exporting producers concerned, which have not been consulted. the union aims to pursue common policies and activities to promote sustainable economic, social and environmental development in developing countries, with a view to reducing and eradicating poverty in the long term, which the regime presented in this report seeks to achieve. the rice sector is the largest contributor to the country's agricultural sector, contributing 18.3% to the growth of the economy in 2012 compared to the previous year. this regulation is also based on the recognition of the right of small farmers and farmers to a decent income, a safe and healthy working environment. i agree that respect for these rights should be considered fundamental to the achievement of the general objectives of achieving trade preferences for developing countries. the effective implementation of international conventions on human and labour rights, environmental protection and good governance is also important.
written. - in order to ensure that the benefits of the preferential import regime are limited to rice originating in bangladesh only, a certificate of origin should be issued. i agree with this regulation because it is based on the recognition of the right of small farmers and farmers to a decent income and a safe and healthy working environment. i consider respect for this right to be fundamental to the achievement of the general objectives of achieving trade preferences for developing countries.
written. - i support the initiatives aimed at ensuring the alignment of the european union's legislation on commercial policy with the regime of delegated and implementing acts provided for in articles 290 and 291 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union respectively, introduced by the treaty of lisbon. however, i voted against this proposal because, while i believe that the development of the economy of the least developed countries should be encouraged and a certain amount of compassion shown towards the poorest should be shown, such support should not be implemented at the expense of the union economy and the producing member states through preferential imports of competing products from third countries.
madam president, the primary objective of the regulation on medical devices is to align laws and regulations with advances and new findings in medicine. since the previous directive came into force, major steps have been taken in the use of implants and various medical devices. but steps were also taken backward to protect patients, as the scandals of poisoned silicone implants and artificial hips have shown. new rules are needed to strike a balance between the need to bring potentially life-saving new devices to market more quickly and to provide maximum protection for users. i therefore regret that the european council was unable to agree on a position on this regulation. i just hope that their indecision doesn't lead to more patient suffering. we have seen that when medical scandals occur, the public points its finger precisely at the institutions of the european union.
written. - ivd medical devices cover a wide range of different tests such as hiv, dna and blood sugar tests. given the importance of these devices and the wide range of their uses, i agree with the rapporteur's proposals and believe that by giving more attention to ivd devices, the european union will ensure the high quality of these medical devices and provide the necessary protection of the health and safety of their users. by introducing proposals, such as a new classification system and mandatory examinations for these products, we are ensuring the safety not only of patients but also of medical staff such as nurses, doctors and, above all, carers who also serve outside healthcare institutions. therefore, although in vitro diagnostic products are used for diagnostics, i.e. the detection of diseases, conditions or infections in individual persons, our direct focus and attention must be on consumer safety, compliance with national regulations and the free movement of products within the eu. i believe that the proposal covers all the above components and that its implementation is a step in the right direction for the european union in terms of regulating ivds for medical devices.
written. - under the term medical devices, a wide range of products are put on the market from eyeglasses to pacemakers. the range of products covered ranges from relatively harmless to those for which ensuring effectiveness and efficiency is important for citizens' lives. i believe it is high time that this legislation was changed, as the current rules date back to 1998 and we have seen many technical and scientific advances in the field of medical devices in the meantime. i consider that a key element of the new directive is an improved system of supervisory authorities through the permanent employment of professional staff, while short-term employment should be limited to exceptional situations, and even then subject to a qualification check by the national supervisory authority. the commission has also taken note of the fact that the commission has not yet adopted a new regulation on the labelling of medicinal products for human use.
written. - i agree with this regulation, the primary objective of which is to ensure the stability of the internal market for medical products by putting the health of the patient, user and operator first. on the other hand, high standards of quality and safety of medical devices are set due to the fulfilment of safety requirements related to these products. both goals are high on the priority list and are closely linked. it is necessary to replace the existing in vitro diagnostic medical devices (ivd) directives in order to address the inconsistency in the interpretation of the existing rules, to contribute to the protection of public health and safety, to remove barriers to the internal market, to improve transparency in the information to be provided to patients and to strengthen the rules on traceability. the achievement of the targets would be achieved by introducing uniform medical software, harmonising legislation between member states, setting clear obligations for both manufacturers and economic operators, strengthening the conditions and powers of the competent authorities, introducing the risk classification for ivd medical devices and the corresponding conformity assessment procedure, requirements for the conduct of clinical success studies, establishing an eu portal for reporting serious incidents, setting up a technical committee to be responsible for the management of the legislation and supported by the commission.
written. - the aim of this regulation is to ensure the functioning of the internal market in medicinal products by taking as a basis a high level of health protection for patients, users and operators. at the same time, it sets high standards of quality and safety for medical devices in order to meet the usual safety requirements related to those products. i support the need for stricter supervision by national authorities of the bodies that give the green light to the placing on the market of medical devices. however, i do not support the proposal to create a central database on medical devices which should contain different electronic systems and a system of unique product identification at union level, as i believe that national authorities should have greater control over the bodies responsible for placing medical devices on the market.
written. - the primary objective of the regulation on in vitro medical devices is to align laws and regulations with progress and new knowledge in medicine. since the previous directive came into force, there have been major advances in the use of implants and various medical devices. but steps have also been taken backward to protect patients, as evidenced by the scandals involving toxic silicone implants and artificial hips. new rules are needed to strike a balance between the need to bring new, potentially life-saving devices to market more quickly and to provide maximum protection for users. i therefore regret that the european council was unable to agree on a position on this regulation. i just hope that because of their indecision, there won't be any more patient suffering. we've had the opportunity to see that when medical scandals happen, the public points their finger in the direction of the european union institutions.
written. - numerous scientific discoveries over the centuries and the rapid development of science and technological advances have enabled an incredible development in medicine and understanding of the human body through the mechanisms of laboratory diagnostics. modern medical methods rely heavily on the ability to provide a correct and timely diagnosis and therefore diagnostic devices, and in particular their safety, not only for patients but also for the professionals who use them, are of paramount importance for the advancement of the union health system. i welcome the objectives that run through the report, which are health and safety. i also support the commission's proposal to include predictive genetic tests that provide information on genetic predisposition to a particular disease in the scope of regulation, as in these cases preventive measures can be taken even before the first symptoms of the disease appear, which could potentially save many lives of citizens across the european union.
written. - without proper medical diagnostic equipment there is no proper treatment or prevention of disease. the aim is to replace the existing directive with a new regulation with the task of increasing the protection of public health and safety, increasing the transparency of information to patients, removing barriers to the internal market, and strengthening traceability rules. this would be achieved by enlargement and by harmonising legislation. ivd medical devices are medical devices intended for in vitro use and have found their use in patients in home use, such as at bedside, in addition to laboratory use. they cover a wide range of different tests, such as self-testing for blood sugar, hiv tests and dna tests. the commission attaches great importance to the quality of the product, while experts and many international organisations, such as the council of europe, the oecd and the european society of human genetics, take the view that in many cases the use cases are more important than the quality of the product. in vitro diagnostic medical devices have specific characteristics in terms of risk classification, conformity assessment procedures and clinical evidence which require the adoption of a specific law, separate from the law on other medical devices, and horizontal aspects common to both sectors should be harmonised, without prejudice to the need for innovation in the union.
written. - i supported this proposal because, apart from the urgent need to amend the regulation on in vitro diagnostic medical devices, which did not provide sufficient guarantees to protect public health and safety, it more clearly defines the role of notified bodies, introduces an obligation for manufacturers to take out a liability insurance policy covering damage to patients or users that can be directly linked to the manufacturing defect of a medical device and allows the public and healthcare professionals easier access to information. the proposed system also introduces certain safeguards with regard to the consent of the subject to the study: the consent must be informed and given freely, in writing, and may be withdrawn at any time by written or oral means.
written. - we have known for years that gdp is not a sufficient indicator of prosperity in the european union and in individual member states. given that gdp is exclusively economic growth, additional indicators need to be introduced to gain insight into the quality of life of citizens. it is necessary to extend the classic national measurements to key aspects of sustainable development and thus develop consistent environmental economic accounts. achieving social, economic and environmental objectives in a sustainable way is an imperative for the european union. the need to monitor the causal and consequential links between the economy and the environment is fully evident, and i therefore support the proposal to amend regulation no 691/2011 by introducing three new accounts which will make a significant contribution to building a robust instrument for measuring environmental-related changes. i believe that a wider application of environmental accounting will contribute to a more efficient management of resources. in order to influence policy-making and raise public awareness of the environmental impacts of the economy, it is important to collect reliable and understandable data. in view of the identified staffing and financial constraints of the national statistical institutes, i support the european commission's proposal to postpone the obligation of member states to provide data to eurostat by one year.
in writing. - the economic aspect of environmental costs must be taken into account in calculating the structural situation of a country. the environmental issue can be applied not only to the implementation of measures aimed at protecting the environment, but also to the inclusion of environmental factors such as costs and benefits. energy saving, environmental protection and the use of alternative energy sources can become the driving force behind growth and development for countries if they are supported by appropriate european and national legislation.
written. - i supported the report on the european economic and environmental accounts. the report is of a very technical nature and serves primarily statistical purposes. the task is intended for the relevant services within the member states.
written. - given that gdp is no longer considered a sufficient indicator of the progress and well-being of people in the world, the european council in 2006 called on the european union and its member states to extend the traditional national accounts to the integrated economic accounts for the environment. the regulation on european environmental economic accounts entered into force in july 2011 with the introduction of the first three modules: air emission accounts, environmental charges and material flow accounts. although only a relatively recent member of the union, the republic of croatia can boast of a successful process of adaptation to european union statistics, so the national statistical office conducted a survey of the economic accounts of material flow. the commission also found that the chinese exporting producers had not provided any evidence that the chinese exporting producers had been able to obtain the necessary information from the chinese exporting producers. following the entry into force of this regulation, eurostat, together with the member states, started to carry out pilot studies in the first three modules referred to in article 10 of the regulation: environmental protection expenditure, the environmental goods and services sector and the energy flow physical energy account. due to the financial and staff constraints faced by the national statistical institutes, it is important to focus on improving the quality and promoting the use of existing modules. therefore, i support the rapporteur's view that the implementation of the new modules should be postponed for one year.
written. - i supported the report by mrs antonescu on the amendment of the regulation on european environmental economic accounts which recognises the need to introduce new economic and environmental parameters in measuring the progress of society and the quality of life of citizens. the report submitted complements the regulation with three new application modules ready for implementation, namely: environmental protection costs; environmental protection goods and services; and energy flow calculations. the commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down the detailed rules for the application of this regulation. although at first sight this report seems very technical, it will provide a better understanding of the sustainable economic development of the member states and the european union as a whole in line with environmental protection objectives. the recent weather disasters in croatia, where ice and snow destroyed most of the timber in gorski kotar in february, illustrate the need to include economic and environmental parameters in progress assessments. the damage estimated at almost eur 200 million will generate some economic growth, but not the activities we want in this area and which ensure sustainable development. in view of all this, i support the report and believe that by applying new modules in environmental economic accounting we will create a better basis for the development of public policies for sustainable development.
written. - the aim of the policy's diverse application is to use data from environmental accounts, both at the level of individual member states and at the level of the european union. the use of data from environmental accounts should in particular highlight the example of domestic material consumption resulting from material flow accounts as the most important key indicator of the resource efficiency initiative in coherence with the eu 2020 strategy, which aims to achieve climate and material objectives in equal measure, while ensuring sustainable economic growth. i agree with the rapporteur and the commission and believe that the new accounts will contribute to the further development of more comprehensive indicators for better public debate and policy-making. in the period when the republic of croatia was in the process of adapting to the statistics of the european union, the national statistical office conducted a survey economic accounts of material flows. the communication presents a series of data for domestic extraction, imports for total trade (within and outside the eu countries), exports for total trade (within and outside the eu countries) and for domestic processed output for the republic of croatia 2008-2012. both countries and eurostat have made considerable progress in speeding up the preparation and processing of accounts, however, an increase in the use of data can be expected when the scope of the number of countries and the length of time series available for trend analysis is improved.
written. - data from the environmental accounts are used for a variety of policy applications, both at the level of individual member states and at the level of the union. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on energy efficiency and renewable energy, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on energy efficiency and renewable energy. the purpose of this report is to amend the existing regulation by adding three new reporting modules: environmental protection expenditure, the environmental goods and services sector and the physical energy flow account. accordingly, i support the need to develop instruments aimed at raising public awareness of the environmental impacts of economic activities. it is important that data are available in an understandable form and are published together with standard economic data such as gdp.
written. - the proposal is to declare 2015 the year of development. it is intended to show that people living outside the eu must be guaranteed their human dignity. this is the only way to ensure the eu's dignity as the guardian of the value system, but also to preserve the dignity of citizens living within the borders of the member states. although we have a modest budget, i believe this is a test for the eu institutions, ngos and our external partners that we must not fail. by raising awareness, we must increase our coordination and efficiency in fighting for a common goal. we must protect more than 100 poor citizens within the borders of the european union, but also those outside its borders.
written. - development action always enjoys high popularity and usually has political support. the european year of development should be a stimulus to re-examine and raise awareness of global interdependence, making clear that development is more than aid. the common solidarity and responsibility of all european citizens has yet to be built. reducing world poverty is not just a moral obligation. the fight against poverty should be the primary objective of the european union's development policy, which aims to build a more peaceful, prosperous and balanced world, reflecting the interdependence of rich and poor countries. in order to achieve lasting results, all citizens of the union, including those who are not politically active, should be involved by drawing attention to the role they can play in global development. the commission should also be able to provide the necessary information to the member states and the commission. the final evaluation of the overall project outcome should be carried out by representatives of civil society, local and regional authorities, together with representatives of the european parliament, and other union institutions.
the european council in brussels on 14 and 15 december adopted a resolution on the situation in the middle east and the situation in the middle east. it is also important in the context of a recent eurobarometer survey which showed that development is a relevant policy issue for the citizens of the european union. of course, the european union's global role as a leader in development and in achieving the millennium development goals is crucial in the context of supporting the eradication of poverty in the world, but also in helping developing countries to design and implement consistent policies in this direction. so i think it's important to educate the public about this role. in the european year of development, i would like to stress in particular the importance of civil society, young people and their cooperation with the european union in promoting what has been done so far and in designing further steps towards fostering development.
written. - i supported the report by mr goerens on the european year of development 2015 because i believe that initiatives such as this by the european commission are crucial to achieving the commonly agreed development goals and to raising public awareness. this appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the european schools for the period 2014-2020 (article 21 02 01) and the european schools for the period 2014-2020. furthermore, i think it is important to emphasise the role of the private sector in developing countries because developing countries often lack development strategies for smes. statistics say that 60% of official development assistance comes from eu member states and that approximately 20 million people in the eu are involved in the work of ngos and that a total of 72% of citizens support the idea of helping the less developed countries. the strategic plan for 2013-2015 indicates that by 2015, croatia is expected to allocate 0,33[nbsp]% of gni to eu development assistance.
written. - i voted in favour of this report which aims to raise public awareness of the work and activities of the european union in developing countries. as such, the european year for development would be the first european year with a strong global rights-based dimension. i believe that the eu institutions should do everything possible to ensure that the european year is inspiring, participatory, coherent, global and includes a process of development education and awareness-raising. the fight against poverty in the world and in the european union, which is home to 100 million poor people, is not just another moral obligation, but a contribution to building a more stable, prosperous, peaceful and balanced world, maintaining the interdependence of rich and poor countries.
written. - i voted against this proposal because, although i am in favour of launching information campaigns and ultimately better informing the european public about the main challenges facing the european union and about certain areas of european union action, i do not think that focusing on development cooperation during 2015 is appropriate. in particular, in a period of needed fiscal consolidation, when the public is particularly sensitive to the way public funds are spent, i believe that we should focus on areas of action that are closer to the citizens of the member states, i.e. areas that would have an impact on their daily lives and from which they could potentially benefit.
written. - i support efforts to achieve faster and better quality development and i think the motto 'dignity for all' would be very appropriate. the problem is not the motto or the adoption of numerous resolutions and other acts that do not bind member states by law. development will not be achieved by this document either because development is not a single link. development is the combination of the most important policies in a single country, or in this case, the whole of the european union. we are as developed as a community as the least developed member state. so we need to do better on overall development, not just on the strongest countries.
written. - space debris has become a serious threat to the sustainability of space activities, the availability of the best orbital positions, the radio frequency spectrum and the opportunity to launch spacecraft. i think we should establish a support program for surveillance and surveillance in space. the objective of this programme is to support services aimed at monitoring and locating space objects in order to prevent damage to spacecraft due to collisions. the support programme for space surveillance and monitoring should be complementary to two aspects: research activities related to the protection of space infrastructure under horizon 2020 and the union's flagship space programmes. i also believe it's important to take a cue from the united nations guidelines on space waste reduction or other international initiatives to ensure space sustainability. the union's contribution to the union's space programme shall be limited to the amount of eur 500000000 for the period from 1 january 2014 to 31 december 2020. i also believe that the european union should support the initiative to actively remove space debris and measures to neutralize it. there is a great need for a long-term program to raise the level of awareness of the situation in the universe. in conclusion, i support this report and believe that the space surveillance and monitoring support programme should encourage the peaceful use of space and its exploration.
written. - there are over a thousand space satellites orbiting the earth right now, not to mention the amount of smaller objects, the so-called "space junk". the independent construction of a space surveillance and monitoring system is therefore of the utmost importance in order to prevent the increasing risk of collisions between european satellites, such as galileo or copernicus. that's why i support the establishment of a support program for surveillance and surveillance in space. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and to monitor the implementation of the new rules and the implementation of the new rules. i support this programme as the first of its kind in the european union and hope that its success, in conjunction with the copernicus research programme and the galileo navigation system, will help to understand our planet and improve the lives of our citizens.
written. - space debris has become a serious threat to the sustainability of space activities, the availability of the best orbital positions and radio frequency spectrum, and the opportunity to launch spacecraft. accordingly, i support the proposal to introduce an sst service to predict travel and return routes and thereby provide useful information to governments and civil protection services. the sst services should also be complemented by research activities related to the protection of space infrastructure carried out under horizon 2020. they should also be complemented by the eu's flagship space programmes: copernicus and galileo, the digital agenda and other telecommunications infrastructures that help to achieve the information society.
in writing. - i am in favour of the legislative package called "smarter regulation for safer food". the package, which aims to simplify the legislative framework for food safety, contains four sectoral texts on animal health, plant health, plant reproductive material and official controls. the objective is to increase the level of safety of food and food production systems, improving animal health and welfare and detecting and removing harmful organisms in order to ensure the effective performance of official controls. this is an important measure, which once again underlines the attention that parliament pays to this matter.
written. - i supported the report because i believe that the commission should have the power to adopt delegated acts on the establishment of criteria to be used to determine what constitutes a serious risk to human, plant or animal health in the union. the union funding should be provided to respond to animal and plant health emergencies where the union budget is insufficient and urgent action is necessary. the financial means to address such crises should be provided, for example, through the application of the flexibility instrument, in accordance with the interinstitutional agreement on sound financial management. in doing so, it is the responsibility of the european union to ensure that funds are used correctly, but also to take measures to meet the requirements for simplifying its spending programmes. this is in line with the communication from the commission to the european parliament, the council, the european economic and social committee and the committee of the regions entitled 'smart regulation in the european union'.
written. - i support the report by mrs le brun, which sets out the means and financial framework for the management of expenditure relating to the food chain, animal health and welfare, as well as plant health and plant reproductive material. it is necessary to provide union funding in emergency cases where the appropriations are insufficient. i also agree that a list of animal diseases and zoonoses to be covered by this regulation should be established. i believe that the safety and quality of food and feed systems, which aim to protect human, animal and plant health and the interests of consumers, need to be improved. the ministry of agriculture, fisheries and rural development is responsible for the implementation of the agricultural policy of the government of the republic of croatia and one of the objectives is to ensure the health and quality of food and the protection of the environment and natural resources. croatia has developed a strategy, very similar to that of the european union, which effectively reduces the incidence of infectious animal diseases. in conclusion, it is necessary to attach greater importance to prevention and surveillance measures and, in the event of an epidemic, to provide the necessary funding.
written. - this regulation aims to achieve greater efficiency and effectiveness in the implementation and management of eu financial resources available to member states for activities relating to health, animal and plant welfare, plant reproductive material and official controls. the union's financial means may be used to contribute to one of the following objectives: a high level of human, animal and plant health throughout the food chain and food production systems; the prevention and eradication of disease and harmful organisms; ensuring a balance between a high level of protection for consumers and the environment; improving union access to food and feed; and promoting union competitiveness in industry and job creation. i consider that the trialogue achieved a satisfactory result, as it did not affect the principle of subsidiarity and the competences that individual member states have in this segment, and i therefore voted in favour.
written. - quality regulation of the wood industry is essential as it is a very important branch of the european union economy. forests cover 38%[nbsp] of the union's surface. the union's forest area is increasing, in contrast to many areas of the world where deforestation remains a major problem. between 1990 and 2000, it grew to 11 million hectares. as many as 135 of the 159 million hectares of forest in the eu are available for timber. wood is used mostly for energy purposes (42[nbsp ]%), 24[nbsp ]% is used for sawmill needs, 17[nbsp ]% for the paper industry and 12[nbsp ]% for the wood panel industry. the forestry sector represents approximately 1% of the union's gdp, with a share in finland that may reach 5%. it employs approximately 2.6 million people. the timber industry in croatia employs 25 thousand people and generates about ten billion kuna in revenue annually. the commission notes that the exporting producer did not provide any evidence that the exporting producer had been in a situation of financial difficulties. as the impact of this industry on the lives of citizens is undeniable, i believe that the amendments to this report relating to a better system of control of the european commission by the european parliament are necessary.
written. - i agree with the amendments to the flegt system for the issuing of licences for the import of timber into the european community in order to bring it into line with the new rules on delegated and implementing acts in accordance with the comitology rules and to ensure democratic control in the form of a delegated act over the implementation by the commission of the amendments to the list of partners and their licensing bodies. i agree with the amendment limiting the period of delegation of power to the commission and with the amendment extending the period necessary for parliament to send a complaint against a delegated act. i think that in this way the procedure itself will have a greater democratic basis. the commission notes that the measures provided for in this decision are in accordance with the opinion of the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 1303/2013,
written. - illegal logging - the cutting, transporting, selling and buying of trees, in violation of applicable national laws - has serious consequences for the environment. it contributes to deforestation and forest degradation, causing about 20% of global co2 emissions and threatening biodiversity loss. illegal logging is costing governments significant amounts of money that could otherwise be invested in better health, education, and other public services (of particular importance to developing countries), and it is undermining efforts to implement sustainable forest management. i support the amendments to council regulation 2173/2005 which will establish licensed schemes for the enforcement of the forest law and give the commission the power to adopt implementing acts to assess and approve existing schemes guaranteeing the legality and traceability of raw materials exported from partner countries.
written. - clinical trials are scientific medical trials conducted on healthy or sick subjects who have voluntarily consented to participate. they are of vital importance to medicine and are an indispensable element in the advancement of modern medicine, disease management and health care, which is why i support this report. it is precisely because of the importance of clinical trials that the fact of a decline in the number of trials in recent years and the direct negative consequences that follow is a matter of concern. this is due, inter alia, to some of the measures in the directive relating to those investigations. this is why many feel that the current legislation in this area should be revised. i also agree that red tape needs to be reduced, which means that one application for authorisation will be sufficient regardless of the member state in which the examination is to be carried out. it's important to note that one of the biggest problems right now is the lack of transparency, and i'm calling for measures to increase it. in croatia, all clinical trials are approved by the ministry of health and social welfare of the republic of croatia. the positive opinion of the central ethics committee for clinical trials of medicinal products and medical practices, which is composed of health professionals from various medical specialties as well as non-medical professionals, i.e. lawyers, patient representatives, etc., is required beforehand.
written. - the aim of directive 2001/20/ec was to simplify and harmonise the administrative provisions on clinical trials in the european union. however, experience shows that a harmonised approach to the conduct of clinical trials has only been partially achieved. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 concerning the conditions for the authorisation of a clinical trial. accordingly, i support the repeal of directive 2001/20/ec. the new procedures for the authorisation of clinical trials should encourage the involvement of more member states. therefore, in order to simplify procedures, the multiple submission of essentially identical information should be avoided and replaced by the submission of a single dossier related to the application via a single portal for all member states concerned. the portal should reduce unnecessary red tape to benefit public authorities as well as test commissioners and academic researchers carrying out multinational research.
the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the measures in question are imputable to the state. the commission considers that the measures provided for in this decision are in accordance with the opinion of the committee established by article 15 (1) of regulation (eu) no 525/2014. at the european union level, major efforts are being made to improve safety standards for nuclear power plants and to ensure safe and responsible nuclear waste management and disposal. the chernobyl accident in 1986 showed how nuclear safety is a globally important project. the 2011 fukushima accident highlighted the need for continued efforts to raise nuclear safety and standards. the community should be able to provide support for nuclear safety in third countries with a view to creating the safety conditions necessary to exclude danger to human life. the union is, after all, the main provider of economic, financial and humanitarian assistance to third countries. this regulation forms part of a framework designed to plan cooperation and provide assistance in support of the promotion of a high level of nuclear safety, radiation protection and the application of effective and efficient safeguards for nuclear material in third countries. in conclusion, i support this report and consider it necessary to promote regulatory cooperation with emerging economies and to define community nuclear safety rules and standards.
written. - further development of legislation on the safety of nuclear installations must take into account a transparent and democratic decision-making process as in the field of other energy sources. i therefore welcome the commission's proposal to strengthen safety regulation alongside technical progress by increasing transparency and preparedness on the ground. in this context, the concept of a transparency strategy to be developed and implemented by the supervisory authorities and other stakeholders is introduced, organisational, funding and human resources criteria to be respected by the supervisory authorities are set out, and appropriate mechanisms for consultation with national supervisory authorities are introduced in the case of infrastructure projects that could harm the safety of nuclear installations in order to ensure maximum preparedness. i believe that in the wake of the recent nuclear accident in fukushima, and of historic accidents such as chernobyl and three mile island, it is extremely important to ensure citizens' confidence in nuclear energy through stronger and more efficient monitoring systems, and that is why i support this report.
written. - i support this report. in particular, it is very important that member states ensure the transparency of information related to the safety of nuclear installations to workers and the public, in particular to people living in the vicinity of nuclear installations. informing the public is of the utmost importance. safety in the member states must be guaranteed by a national framework within which nuclear installations are designed, located and operated in such a way that the framework aims at preventing accidents and releases of radioactive substances and, in the event of an accident, must be capable of rapidly mitigating the consequences and releases of radioactive substances. all potential accidents must be minimised and, once an accident has occurred, design measures must be applied as a means of protecting the public. it is essential to ensure that competent authorities inspect the installations. each member shall organise periodic peer reviews of its national framework and competent regulatory authorities with a view to continuously improving nuclear safety. the results of each review shall be reported to the member states and the commission and parliament shall be kept regularly informed of the progress made.
written. - nuclear energy is a source of energy which the union and the member states must treat on an equal footing with other sources of energy in accordance with the treaty on the functioning of the european union. the resolution of the european parliament on safety and risk assessments of nuclear installations within the eu and related activities refers to the clearly visible risks from nuclear waste generated by the fukushima nuclear accident and stresses that the commission should find a place for the safest possible storage of radioactive material. i supported this directive and the new provisions on the inspection of nuclear installations by equal bodies on the basis of selected safety issues. member states should ensure transparency provisions with regular reporting to better inform workers and the public about all nuclear safety-related developments.
written. - it is estimated that billions of euros are lost in the european union each year through various forms of tax fraud, tax evasion or avoidance. it is therefore of great economic importance to ensure that mechanisms are in place to prevent such behaviour, either by continuously patching up so-called 'loopholes' in the law, or by strengthening transparency and fighting 'tax havens'. i therefore support these amendments to the directive on the common system of taxation applicable to parent companies and subsidiaries from different member states. the commission should also be able to assess the compatibility of the aid with the internal market in accordance with article 107 (3) (c) tfeu. it is also important to set general anti-abuse rules (gaar) and i therefore welcome this initiative as a good step towards harmonising national legislation on the protection against the abuse of tax liability regulations in the hope that this will reduce the amount of tax evasion and leave the european union with more resources for productive spending, such as investment in development or the implementation of social policy.
written. - i supported this report because not only is it a moral imperative to ensure fair taxation of all social groups, but it is of great economic importance to ensure that the taxes collected are allocated in a way that meets the needs of modern society. the additional revenues for member states - excluding new taxes - would ensure new investments and job creation, development programmes and infrastructure. at a time when europe is still dealing with the consequences of the crisis, we must not be inert. double taxation and extreme forms of low taxation deprive member states of significant revenues and encourage unfair competition between companies in the eu's single market. the commission has also proposed that the taxation of the eu's financial interests be increased by a further eur 100 million.
written. - i fully support the fight against double taxation, which is the essence of the commission's original proposal, and therefore i must express my satisfaction that the proposals presented in the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy concerning the recommendations on tax rates in the member states have been rejected. that's why i voted yes.
madam president, i support the initiative to harmonise legislation and mutual recognition of acts, judgments and documents. the enlargement of the democratic community of european peoples is underway, but the democratic deficit must be constantly emphasised. every step forward in establishing more transparent debate, proposal and decision-making is a step forward in reducing the democratic deficit. in this light, i would like to place particular emphasis on point 16 of this report and respect for common values. the citizens must be clearly presented with the european added value, because that is the only way to create european citizens. abstract concepts need to be translated into reality, and this is only possible if citizens live in a just, secure and open society.
madam president, the creation of ideal conditions in terms of life security, freedom and justice for all people in the territory of the european union is very important for our multicultural community, and these aspirations are the main objectives of the stockholm programme. the fight against money laundering, corruption and organised crime is already well known to be a key prerequisite for creating a safer common space, but human trafficking is also on the rise. it is of great importance that we find a way to prevent this criminal act and to prevent people from profiting from the misfortune of others in order to avoid future unfortunate events like the tragedy of lampedusa. the best solution needs to be found to enable asylum seekers to integrate successfully into our society and thereby give them a second chance, without compromising our common system of values and security. the commission needs to use its right of legislative initiative, but parliament should also use the powers acquired by the treaty of lisbon, which imply greater involvement in the legislative processes and greater co-decision with the council of the european union. the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the draft legislative acts and the draft legislative acts.
written. - respect for, protection of and promotion of human rights, security and freedom are the principles of the european union. the commission has also taken into account the fact that the union's financial contribution to the union budget is limited to eur 50000000 in the form of a global loan. i supported this report because i consider it extremely important to take a critical look at the objectives achieved in order to establish an appropriate approach for the next steps and the establishment of new frameworks. recent events have shown that we urgently need to harmonise our migration policy. as the newest member state, we take border management, asylum and migration policy seriously above all. i am particularly pleased to highlight the success of croatia in this area, whose asylum and migration policy and the protection of human and refugee rights at the normative-legal level have, over the last few years, been almost fully aligned with the european acquis. members' efforts and concerted dialogue, as well as an agreement based on interinstitutional dialogue, are key factors in enabling us to live in a europe that is safe, free and just.
written. - i support the stockholm programme and this report and believe that the union is well on its way to achieving the objectives of fundamental human rights, minority rights and, in general, freedom, justice and security of citizens. i am particularly pleased that parliament, as the only democratically elected institution of the european union, has been given a greater role, and i believe that in further expansions of democracy and legitimacy this role should be even greater, for which we will have to make additional efforts. as for the european citizens' initiative, although there were technical problems for citizens, it proved successful and we already have an example of successful votes collected through one initiative, and there will certainly be more. when we talk about a single european law for elections to the european parliament, i agree that we should encourage more transparent procedures for nominating candidates that guarantee the independence of the candidates, the possibility of introducing direct elections, focusing the campaign on european issues and i believe that there is still work to be done in these areas. i also support the proposals of the committee on foreign affairs, in particular those concerning third-country nationals and the extension of the fundamental rights agency's powers to include the candidate countries. i also support the amendment proposed by the s&d group which would highlight the importance of regular assessments of member states' adherence to the union's core values as an important element of monitoring our development.
written. - i supported the report on the mid-term evaluation of the stockholm programme by mr casinia, mr berlinguer and mr lopez aguilar, because i believe that before the end of the 7th convocation it was necessary to assess the effectiveness of the stockholm programme for cooperation in the field of justice and home affairs (2009-2014). the presentation of the stockholm programme of cooperation highlighted above all its benefits to european citizens, as it provides for improvements in the fields of citizenship, justice, security, asylum and immigration, relying on four main factors: promoting citizens' rights, facilitating citizens' daily lives, protecting citizens and encouraging the integration of all citizens into society. given that the stockholm programme covers a wide range of topics of importance to the citizens of the european union, which are discussed by the three parliamentary committees through their work and activities, it is not surprising that more than 300 amendments have been tabled. the result of negotiations and compromise is that we now have a balanced and high-quality report that gives an objective view of the achievements and guidelines for the post-stockholm period. the creation and strengthening of a culture of judicial cooperation is important, to which recent initiatives by the european commission also contribute.
written. - the eu should promote the highest level of protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms for all people. i think we need to advance the chapter of the stockholm programme that deals with the promotion of civil rights. the economic crisis can be transformed into a democratic crisis. strong political incentives and the transparent functioning of democratic institutions at national and european level are necessary to protect democratic gains, the rule of law and fundamental rights, and to combat the rise of populism. i believe that more attention should be paid to responding to the particular situation of vulnerable groups; more attention should also be paid to groups that are often victims of all forms of violence, namely women and children. as the objective of the stockholm programme is to facilitate the free movement of eu citizens and eu residents, with the protection and respect of all rights and obligations arising from the european area of justice, i support the promotion of the programme and i voted in favour of this report.
written. - the stockholm programme seeks to strengthen the protection of civil rights with provisions relating to security and a stricter policy on illegal immigration. i therefore support this report on the five-year plan, defined by the stockholm programme, which provides for greater powers for the european institutions in the field of justice and home affairs by calling for the adoption of a european 'internal security strategy'. i would also stress that the republic of croatia, as a territorial border country of the union, is faced with migration on a daily basis, both legal and illegal. the commission has also received comments from the croatian authorities, which have not provided any further information. i would also like to stress the importance of respecting the human rights of illegal immigrants. the fight against serious and organised crossborder crime can only be effectively fought in the eu through close cooperation between national judicial and law enforcement authorities. i therefore invite all member states to actively engage in this programme in order to ensure transparency in the implementation of the european policy in the area of freedom, security and justice.
written. - the report sets out the european union's priorities for the area of justice, freedom and security for the period 2010-2014, building on its predecessors, the tampere and hague programmes. this own-initiative report presents a highly overdue semi-annual evaluation of the achievements in the field of justice and home affairs in this parliamentary session. the eu has also adopted a number of initiatives to improve the quality of life in the eu, such as the european asylum support office (easo), the european asylum support office (easo) and the european asylum support office (easo). however, rather than offer a clear assessment of the eu's work in this area, the libe committee took this opportunity to draw up a list of desired future measures and to, inter alia, comment on peripheral non-legislative issues such as fundamental rights and the parliament's investigation into nsa.
written. - i welcome everything that is stated in this report, as well as the objectives that have been set. i would like to draw attention to the so-called 'copenhagen dilemma' here, because we have one set of criteria for candidate countries, while the other is how many of the current member states meet the same criteria. the deep economic crisis has changed the course of some events in europe and the eu clearly needs to take a role in this and in the weakening of the economy. the economic crisis is turning democratic, and the gap between the increasing number of poor and the decreasing number of rich is widening. they strengthen extremist parties whose main programme is contrary to the principles for which the eu stands. the recent elections in france prove this, and i think the forthcoming european parliament elections will show the same. germany has abolished the electoral threshold, which is a clear sign that parties that support nazi ideas will also have a place here. the free movement of workers is the basis for the further progress of the whole of europe, and workers are not the cause of the economic collapse.
written. - export controls on dual-use items and technologies play a key role in the fight against the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and conventional weapons. it also contributes significantly to regional and international security and stability. i consider it necessary to establish basic principles and common rules throughout the union for the control of exports, brokering, transit and transfer of dual-use goods, in line with the common commercial policies. i also believe that administrative cooperation and coordinated policies and instruments are necessary for the application and implementation of the community regime. furthermore, i consider that modernisation and further harmonisation of systems across the union is necessary to keep pace with new threats and rapid technological change and to reduce system disruption. the aim of this system is to create a genuine common market for dual-use goods by ensuring international security and stability. to this end, it is essential to regulate the process for updating control lists, strengthen risk assessment, exchange information, develop improved industry standards and reduce disparities in implementation. in conclusion, i support this report and believe that efforts will be intensified in the future, at the community's initiative, to promote multilateral agreements in the context of the regimes for the control of exports, transfer, brokering and transit of dual-use goods.
written. - dual-use goods are goods that include computer programs and technology that can be used for both civilian and military purposes. the control of exports of dual-use goods and technology is of paramount importance in order to prevent any form of abuse. i agree with the opinion of the european parliament, the council and the commission which expresses the importance of continuously improving the efficiency and coherence of the eu strategic export control regime, as this ensures a high level of security and transparency. as a member state of the eu, croatia is obliged to apply the council regulation of 2009 establishing a community regime for the control of exports, transfer, brokering and transit of dual-use items from 1 july 2013. the act on amendments to the act on the control of dual-use goods was adopted by the croatian parliament at its session on 24 may 2013. in conclusion, there is a need to further develop the existing comprehensive mechanism for dual-use goods and i invite the commission to submit a new proposal to update the regulation as soon as possible.
written. - i have a positive opinion of the report. the commission has also provided information on the export performance of the union industry, including the export performance of the union producers, the export performance of the union producers and the export performance of the union producers. the european parliament, the council and the commission are aware of the importance of this issue. we are faced on a daily basis with new threats and rapid technological changes affecting the creation of a common market for dual-use goods, so we need to modernise and further harmonise our systems to reduce distortions and to develop a sustainable model for export controls to third countries. the european parliament, the council and the commission have committed to develop the existing comprehensive mechanism for dual-use goods in order to further improve the export control system and its application within the single market. dual-use goods are goods that can be used for both civilian and military purposes and thus can assist in the production of nuclear weapons or other explosive devices. control of exports of such goods is essential in the fight against terrorism.
written. - rapid technological advances result in the need for constant surveillance and control of the international list of dual-use goods. to this end, it is essential to regulate the process for updating control lists, to strengthen risk assessment and information exchange, to develop improved industry standards and to reduce disparities in implementation. i immediately supported this report and the commission's aim of updating the eu control rules as soon as possible, with minimal delay and much more flexibility. this will allow for rapid adaptation to changing weather conditions and ensure a more integrated, efficient and consistent european approach to the movement (export, transfer, brokering and transit) of strategic goods.
written. - greenhouse gas emissions from aviation are increasing rapidly and currently account for about three percent of total greenhouse gas emissions. the international civil aviation organization (icao) estimates that co2 emissions from aviation have almost doubled between 1990 and 2006. unfortunately, of all forms of transportation, aviation's greenhouse gas emissions are the most tightly regulated. the commission proposes that the proposal for the adoption of ets 'stop sat' legislation, which means a temporary derogation from the provisions of the ets of directive 2003/87/ec, facilitates the process at international level towards global market-based measures (gmms) for aviation emissions. the european union has so far followed its commitment to the challenge of climate change, and i believe that this agreement can be improved. the efforts to achieve a compromise at the global level, in addition to the european level, should be supported. in doing so, while suspending european legislation for the next three years, the european union must protect its integrity and as a community seek to retain influence in international negotiations.
written. - i supported amendments to the current framework for payment services by setting out rules that increase transparency, innovation and security in the area of low-value payments, with a focus on the legitimate needs of consumers. the definition of payment services, payment protocols and standards should be technologically neutral and allow for the further development of new types of payment services and secure business conditions for existing and new service providers. the proposed measures seek to ensure competitive and equal rules for all categories of payment service providers, facilitate the cross-border provision of innovative card, internet and mobile services, close the standardisation gaps and harmonise the charging practices of payment service management across the eu.
written. - although the european union is a single market, there are still 28 different banking markets, i.e. different rules on bank transaction fees that make payments more difficult. the fees vary from 0,1% to 1,5% by member state. this is not to be overlooked in the savings to the consumer, but also to the retail chains. the commission notes that the aid granted to the beneficiary was granted in the form of a grant of eur [...] per beneficiary. we need to make card payments easier if the union market is to be truly single, transparent and competitive.
written. - i support the report on interbank fees for card-based payment transactions. as the fees are regulated only by the national authorities, such a system encourages card companies to take a monopoly position on the market and therefore the merchants using the services of the card company have no negotiating power over the setting of the fees. we can say that traders in the eu pay a hidden tax of €10 billion every year. croatia is one of the countries whose merchants pay the highest fees charged by card companies. the single european market should be able to exert its full power here. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of transactions carried out by the croatian authorities in the past. i believe that limiting the fees to a universal level of 0.2 and 0.3% for debit and credit cards is an acceptable solution that will strengthen the integrity of the european market and provide retailers with incentives in the form of reducing, shall we say, the hidden tax.
written. - in a time when the world is slowly moving from traditional forms of trade to e-commerce, secure, competitive and innovative electronic payment systems are of great importance to enable consumers, traders and businesses to take full advantage of the single market. developed countries are leaders in the market for cashless transactions and as such actively promote the purchase of goods and services via the internet resulting in a wider range of choices for consumers. non-cash transactions are economically viable because they are fast, secure and innovative and contribute to the creation of an integrated european market. however, payment market areas such as card, internet and mobile payments are still fragmented along national borders. i support this proposal because i believe that obstacles to the introduction of new card payment solutions, including mobile and internet payments based on card transactions, need to be removed. in order to allow for the efficient functioning of the internal market, the use of electronic payments should be improved and facilitated for the benefit of retailers and consumers. the aim is to provide all payment service providers with a level playing field, thereby increasing the efficiency, transparency and security of payment services, and to facilitate the cross-border provision of card, internet and mobile payment services by establishing a single retail market.
written. - i support the commission's proposal for a directive on access to payment accounts, which should help to stimulate competition in this area to some extent. it aims to give every european the right to open a bank account with certain minimum features, free of charge or at a 'reasonable' cost. the overall objective of the payment package together with this proposal should be to enable all eu citizens to make basic electronic payments over the internet at national and cross-border level in a cheap and simple way. however, i abstained on certain amendments by the rapporteur because i consider that there is a lack of available data on the actual costs of the electronic payment method and insufficient transparency on this issue. further information is needed to allow a full analysis of these problems and to determine which of the parties involved is paying what. it is also necessary to take care to avoid undesirable consequences, i.e. the possibility that a reduction in fees in one part of the market leads to an increase in costs for another part of the system.
written. - this proposal amends the 2007 payments directive to better protect consumers. the proposal introduces an unconditional right to a refund if an item paid for with a debit card is not delivered. this is very important when we consider that the electronics market grew by 20% in 2012 and weighs 520 billion euros. it is forecast to continue to grow at an annual rate of 10%. as many as 50% of consumers don't buy online because they don't have confidence that the product will reach their doorstep. this way we protect them, but we also help the consumer. the commission has also received a request from the united kingdom to provide additional information on the implementation of the measures. parliament has succeeded in fighting for the possibility of member states prohibiting traders from charging fees for certain types of payment. for these reasons, i support this directive.
written. - i support the proposal for a directive on payment services in the internal market. the adoption of the payment services directive, together with the interbank fees act, lays a sound foundation for the achievement of a single payment market in the european union. by supporting this legislative regulation, we will open up the space for innovation in electronic payments and reduce the fragmentation of the payments market. as technology and people's habits change rapidly, it has always proved the hardest to align the legal framework to keep up with the changes. the legal provisions of the new regulation, i believe, lay a good foundation for the development of competition, efficiency and innovation in the field of electronic payments. this will directly contribute to the development of e-commerce, the growth of small and micro enterprises and the increase of intra-eu trade.
written. - i supported amendments to the current framework for payment services by setting out rules that increase transparency, innovation and security in the area of low-value payments, with a focus on the legitimate needs of consumers. the definition of payment services, payment protocols and standards should be technologically neutral and allow for the further development of new types of payment services and secure business conditions for existing and new service providers. the proposed measures seek to ensure competitive and equal rules for all categories of payment service providers, facilitate the cross-border provision of innovative card, internet and mobile services, close the standardisation gaps and harmonise the practices related to the charging of payment service management across the eu.
madam president, we voted today for a resolution which really sends a message to us and to all european citizens that this parliament can enact acts that can be felt in the daily lives of our people. citizens often ask us how the decisions of this parliament affect their lives and their standard of living. the decision to end roaming is exactly that kind of decision. our citizens when they cross the border from the republic of croatia and go to ljubljana, trieste, budapest, vienna, munich, stuttgart or any other city in the european union can call their relatives, friends or business partners without having to pay the roaming price. on the other hand, the commission told us in the report that broadband internet access in croatia is the second most expensive in europe and this package of measures wants to solve this.
written. - by abolishing roaming in the european union, we will correct an unfair situation where citizens have been forced to pay more for something they should not have. roaming was a clear negation of the principle of a common market which should not only serve industry and the economy but also citizens. as a result of existing european measures to limit roaming costs, consumers now pay 80% less for calls and sms and 91% less for data than they did in 2007. nevertheless, today 28% of travellers within the eu still switch off their phones while in another member state. all of this should change on 15 december 2015. i welcome this move because it will show the europeans in a direct way what the european union can do for them. furthermore, i congratulate commissioner kroes on her courage and political will to push this project through to the end.
in writing. - today's vote, which approved the report on the abolition of roaming charges, is another step forward in reducing the distances between europeans and making their lives easier by allowing them to use their mobile phones and the internet freely throughout europe. this is a cost reduction which once again demonstrates the tangible benefits of european legislation. the adopted text, which is subject to approval by the council of the european union, will enter into force on 15 december 2014. the report of the honourable member also regulated the internet more generally, amending the european commission's proposal that providers would have the right to block or slow down the internet connection. this is certainly a major breakthrough, which affects all the citizens of the european union, who need concrete action to their benefit.
written. - the single market for electronic communications is the cornerstone of the digital economy. in order to achieve growth, competitiveness and the potential for new jobs that the digital single market can bring to the european union, the role of telecommunications in innovation and cross-sectoral connectivity needs to be strengthened. i support this report which proposes to abolish roaming charges for calls, sms and data connections. this decision should apply to all operators from 1 july 2016. i also support the proposal to open the internet to all, in the sense of making it available to all at competitive prices: to individuals and entrepreneurs, to sellers and buyers, to servers and users. in this way, providers of internet services would be obliged not only to meet the basic needs of consumers, but also to meet specific requirements such as direct internet transmission and videoconferencing by developing and promoting their own services. by 2017, 85% of the population is projected to be covered by 3g, 50% by 4g, smartphone subscriptions will reach 3 billion, and data connection usage will grow 15 times more than today and therefore regulating the electronic communications market is of particular importance.
written. - the importance of this regulation is already apparent from the fact that equal access to electronic traffic ensures integrated network management and faster and more competitive development of internet services and technology throughout the union, which are some of the objectives of creating a single market. some parts of this regulation should be approached more slowly and with more attention to national legislation, bearing in mind that the duplication of current national rules and directly applicable regulations would create unnecessary legal uncertainty. for that reason, i consider it necessary to delete from the proposal for a regulation the parts amending the existing directives and regulations. the commission has also taken the view that the extension of the legislative powers of the commission and the reduction of the powers of national regulators, while making sense from the point of view of market integration, constitutes a significant intrusion into an area which national regulators actually understand much better due to years of experience and knowledge of the conditions, and for that reason i believe that the form and pace of further legislative changes should be considered. despite these reservations, i nevertheless support in principle the objective of further integration and convergence towards the idea and reality of the single european market for the reasons already mentioned, but i would also welcome provisions relating to the protection of end-users of services and another very important topic in recent times - net neutrality. also, keeping in mind the objective of increasing citizens' mobility and strengthening the common europe of citizens, i fully support the abolition of roaming charges within the european union.
written. - i have a positive opinion of the report. over the past decade, the internet has evolved into an open platform for innovation in a way that is open to end users as well as to providers of content and applications and internet services. we must treat all online content equally, without discrimination and without disabling or disrupting access, because only in this way can we ensure the economic activities characteristic of the digital age. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules on the application of this regulation. in order to ensure the protection of the union's financial interests, the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the definition of the concept of 'originating products' and the definition of the concept of 'originating products' and the definition of the concept of 'originating products' as set out in this regulation. i see great success in the fact that from 1 july 2015 roaming providers may not charge users any additional charges compared to domestic mobile communications charges, whether for incoming or outgoing roaming calls, for roaming sms or mms messages or for roaming data services. this decision can be seen as a major victory for the union, because we have taken another step towards equality that will affect all eu citizens.
written. - i supported this regulation which lays down the rules necessary to achieve better coordination of the union framework for harmonised radio spectrum for wireless broadband communications services and to address the gradual abolition of unjustified charges for roaming communications within the union. i strongly support the single market for electronic communications and believe that competition, coordination, investment, innovation and increased capacity for new and improved networks and services should be promoted by encouraging market integration and cross-border service provision and reducing unnecessary regulatory burdens on businesses.
written. - although the electronic transaction market is growing, especially with services like paypal, the concept of electronic transactions is still in its early stages of development and as such faces many legal challenges. in addition to the need to clarify the position of e-commerce in the existing monetary and tax system, one of the problems is the formal-legal validity of the digital signature. the commission should also be able to use the information provided by the member states to assess the effectiveness of the measures taken by the member states in the field of electronic identification. i welcome these proposals as both as a user of electronic transactions and as a citizen of the european union, i understand their importance and the need to harmonise this emerging technology for our internal market.
written. - i support this report. namely, it is important to build trust in the internet environment which is crucial for today's economic and social development. if there is no trust, the economy as a whole suffers because of the lack of economic activity by consumers, businesses or administrations, which results from a lack of legal certainty, and market growth is halted because electronic transactions and a whole host of new services are prevented. in order to ensure equal opportunities for all parts of society, it is essential to ensure that all citizens have access to the technologies and skills that enable them to use digital offerings and electronic services equally. the member state must ensure that citizens are provided with information related to electronic identification. since it is a relatively new concept, it is still foreign to most people. in order to win the favour of the majority, standardisation needs to be carried out by international and european business entities dealing with such issues. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to amend the list of electronic identification means referred to in paragraph 1 of this article. the european commission has published a report on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of personal data in the context of the european union's digital single market.
written. - i believe that ensuring equal opportunities and inclusion of all parts of society in accessing technology is crucial to the development of a modern society, and accordingly i support the regulation which seeks to introduce different levels of security that guarantee a minimum common set of security requirements. i agree with the rapporteur's finding that the process of building interoperability should respect the different approaches used by member states in building national electronic identification systems and should not require changes to the basic design of such systems. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to amend this regulation by supplementing it with new rules. the commission should also be able to provide the necessary information to the member states in order to ensure that the interoperability of electronic identification means is ensured. i regard the report as an example of the union's healthy potential for added value and have supported it accordingly.
written. - the financial crisis has highlighted the weaknesses of statutory audit particularly with regard to public-interest entities such as banks and insurance companies. they reported huge losses in the period 2007 to 2009. this raised questions not only about how the auditors could give their clients reports with a positive opinion for those periods, but also about the appropriateness and adequacy of the existing legislative framework. the aim of this reform is to establish the conditions for carrying out statutory audits, to adopt rules on the organisation, selection and supervision of auditors and to reduce barriers to entry into the audit market. the auditors shall be independent in the performance of their duties and in the performance of their tasks. the provision of non-audit services would make it impossible for an audit firm to carry out statutory audits on the company, which would lead to a reduction in the number of firms that can carry out statutory audits, in particular when it comes to audits of large public-interest entities where the market is concentrated in the hands of the so-called big four. auditors should refrain from carrying out a statutory audit of an entity in which they have a business or financial interest. this reform will not enhance the reliability of audit reports and will not prevent the next crisis. only independent auditors may draw up independent reports. the socialist and democratic group is calling for more fundamental reform.
written. - the financial crisis has highlighted the weaknesses of statutory audit, particularly with regard to public-interest entities (pii). the public-interest entities are credit institutions, insurance companies and other public-interest entities listed on a stock exchange and of high economic importance due to their size, number of employees and business activities. the purpose of this reform should, inter alia, be to remove barriers to entry in the audit market. the union audit market is controlled by four large audit firms, the so-called 'big four', with a market share of over 90%. such high concentration organises competition in the market and there are high barriers to entry for small and medium-sized audit firms, as well as limited choice in the audit market. unfortunately, i believe that this attempt to reform the commission will not strengthen confidence in the audit reports or provide security from the next crisis. auditing as it exists today does not provide sufficient insight into the annual accounts of public-interest entities and i insist on independent auditors who would provide clear, concrete and impartial reports.
written. - speaking of statutory audit, we must know how important it is that statutory auditors, audit firms or members of their business networks do not provide audited entities with any service other than statutory audit as this could jeopardise their independence. the auditors shall be appointed by the audit authority and shall be appointed by the audit authority. the auditors should be informed of the results of the audit procedure by means of an audit report. in order to increase the confidence of stakeholders in the audited entity's financial statements, it is important that the audit report is well reasoned and the content is extended by additional information. the audit authority shall be empowered to appoint the statutory auditor or the audit firm. the right of choice shall not be restricted by the conclusion of a contract with a third party which would limit the choice to specific auditors or audit firms. competent authorities shall be empowered to conduct investigations into statutory auditors and audit firms in the event of irregularities being detected and shall be able to cooperate with the professional bodies of auditors in all their activities. in view of all the above, i have a positive opinion of the report and have supported it.
written. - this regulation ensures cooperation between competent authorities throughout the union with regard to the activities of statutory auditors and audit firms auditing the financial statements of public-interest entities. i consider it justified that member states may also designate other entities which are of high importance because of the nature of their business, their size or the number of their employees as public-interest entities. i also support providing opportunities for companies to showcase their services and skills within a transparent process and to promote themselves as service providers to public interest entities. the report maintains a healthy balance between implementing the much-needed reforms in the audit sector and minimising the negative impact on the business sector in everyday life, in particular on smes, which need access to good and quality advice. that's why i voted yes.
written. - in order to increase the independence of statutory auditors and audit firms from the audit entity during the statutory audit of annual financial statements and consolidated financial statements, any natural or legal person having voting rights in the audit firm should be independent of the audited entity and should not participate in the decision-making process. in order to improve the transparency of the supervision of auditors, each member state should designate one body responsible for public oversight. the independence of that public oversight body from the audit profession is a basic prerequisite for the integrity, efficiency and proper functioning of public oversight. the public oversight bodies should therefore be managed by non-active auditors and member states should establish independent and transparent selection procedures. the burden on smes to audit their financial statements remains very high, but these reports do not provide sufficient insight into the situation of these companies and thus do not provide sufficient protection for investors. the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the proposed amendments on the financial statements of the companies concerned.
written. - with regard to the creation of a more detailed framework for the audit of public-interest entities (pii), the rules on the statutory audit of financial statements and consolidated accounts require certain amendments. in the case of consolidated financial statements, it is important that there is a clear definition of the responsibilities of the statutory auditors who audit the different components of the group, and the group auditor should bear full responsibility for the audit report in this respect. i think the commission's proposal requires a lot of improvements. the auditors should above all be objective and independent. however, as stated in the commission proposal, allowing third parties to have a majority decision-making power in audit firms risks compromising the independence of the profession. the main problem of auditing in the union is the different way auditing is carried out in the member states and the lack of a single and correct regulation at union level to provide certainty and prevent the next crisis. for this reason, i do not support the reform in question as i consider that it will not help to gain sufficient insight into the annual accounts of a company and does not enhance the independence of auditors and independent reports.
written. - i have a positive opinion of the report. the role of the auditor must be to actively review the employer from the perspective of the beneficiary, rather than to enable companies to provide financial information on a stand-alone basis as would be expected. the auditors shall be able to demonstrate that they have the necessary knowledge and experience to carry out the audit. the auditors shall be prepared to learn how they may be deliberately misled by fraud or error, which should not be influenced by the auditor's prior experience of the integrity and honesty of the audited entity's employers. the auditors, audit firms and their employees shall in particular refrain from carrying out statutory audits of an entity where they have a business or financial interest in that entity and from taking decisions in the same entities. the internal organisation of auditors and audit firms should contribute to the elimination of all factors that could affect their independence, which is why the owners or shareholders of an audit firm should not interfere in the conduct of the audit. the audit shall be conducted in accordance with the principles of sound financial management and sound internal control. the audit committees and bodies performing the relevant function in the audited entity are of great importance, and it is important to ensure the strong independence and expertise of the audit committee, while ensuring that the majority of its members are independent.
written. - regular and open mandatory calls for tenders for both audit and non-audit services give smes the opportunity to present their services and skills within a transparent process and to promote themselves as service providers to public interest entities. i support this regulation which ensures cooperation between competent authorities throughout the union with regard to the activities of statutory auditors and audit firms auditing the financial statements of public-interest entities. in order to improve compliance with the requirements of this regulation, member states should provide for the imposition of fines on statutory auditors, audit firms and public-interest entities found to be in breach of the rules.
written. - i support the report on the reduction or elimination of customs duties on goods originating in ukraine. on 6 march this year, the council adopted a decision on a package of economic assistance to ukraine which includes trade preferences that ukraine would also have under the comprehensive free trade agreement. i would remind you that the refusal to sign the said agreement last year by the previous government activated the political crisis in ukraine. the trade preferences will be granted for a period of six months, i.e. until november this year. i also hope that ukraine will sign the free trade agreement within the said period. the temporary and unilateral reduction of the trade barrier to imports of goods originating in ukraine into the eu, as agreed in the free trade agreement, will help ukrainian companies to increase their exports and diversify their export destinations. i agree with this proposal and support the agreement which, according to the commission, would save ukraine eur 487 000 000 per year due to reduced import duties in the eu. in conclusion, i agree that this proposal will make a positive contribution to the worrisome economic situation in ukraine in a way that will contribute to the restoration of economic and financial stability.
written. - i supported this proposal because ukraine is in a difficult situation and we must provide support to the people of ukraine, and as croatia has recently found itself in a similar situation caused by war, i am aware of the need and importance of this decision for the citizens of ukraine because in addition to many problems it is also facing financial problems. i am concerned about the situation in ukraine and have written to high representative catherine ashton and the european commission asking what they will do to protect the people of ukraine, and this directive is in favour of protecting ordinary citizens and that is another reason why i supported it. the temporary reduction of trade barriers (either customs duties, quotas or tariff rate quotas) on imports of ukrainian goods into the eu will help to overcome the problems that have arisen with having to take care of the respect of ukraine's international agreements, as well as the provisions on the origin of products with the aim of preventing any illegal acts.
written. - i have supported this bill without amendment which proposes that parliament support it without further amendment, given the urgency of the situation in ukraine. ukraine has been through dramatic political situations in recent months and the current new government needs strong and immediate european assistance to fight against external pressures and to overcome economic and financial difficulties. the commission has also concluded that the proposed measures are in line with the union's policy on trade in services and the union's policy on trade in services.
the european union has made great strides in recent years towards the improvement and unification of its foreign policy. the european union has made a significant step forward by entering into force the treaty of lisbon and introducing the institution of the high representative for foreign affairs and security policy and the appointment of the special representative for human rights. this way of working allows all member states to clearly express their views on foreign policy and thus to participate actively in the shaping of the same. i believe that we should continue to set an example for others in providing humanitarian and development aid, because through such programmes the european union has the possibility of creating credibility for european values in the world. the legitimisation of the common foreign policy remains one of the most important objectives on which the european parliament should focus in the period 2014-2020. through programmes and education of citizens, we should gain their trust and encourage their participation which ultimately contributes to the quality of policy making. i support any initiative which seeks to coordinate the union's external policies, since this way the interests of individual member states can be better protected, which is the basis of the protection of the union itself.
written. - i supported the report on the european union's comprehensive approach and the role of the common security and foreign policy. the aim of the approach is to contribute to a more coherent and effective union action. i consider it of great importance to ensure coherence between the different areas of the european union's external action. member states should actively and unreservedly support the union's foreign and security policy in a spirit of loyalty and mutual solidarity. the member states should also refrain from any action which is contrary to the interests of the union or which could impair its effectiveness in international relations. the union has recently acquired new instruments for external action through the lisbon treaty, enabling it to develop a more active, coherent and genuine eu foreign policy. other parts of the world are also undergoing significant geostrategic changes. this is partly due to the rise of a multipolar international scene with new actors pursuing regional and global ambitions, then the increasing struggles for energy security, the increasingly severe effects of climate change and the severe and protracted global financial and economic crisis. i believe that in such a geopolitical climate, the eu must preserve and promote its values, interests and stability on the global stage, as well as protect the security and well-being of its citizens.
written. - the approach to foreign policy should be taken seriously, since the way in which it is conducted also has a direct impact on the union's internal policy. we are aware of the geostrategic changes taking place and therefore in such a geopolitical climate the eu must protect and promote its ideas, interests and stability on the global stage, as well as protect the security of its citizens. the union has the widest range of instruments and tools in the world. from diplomatic, defense to economic, development and humanitarian, to develop a strong foreign policy in the spirit of stabilization and peace. i supported the report because the eu is in an exceptional position with regard to instruments, but all of this needs to be given substance. when we talk about stability and peace, it is essential that the union develops plans, coordinates instruments and tools before any problem arises, anywhere in the world, that could jeopardise this. it is crucial that the eu has influence where the member states do not, and we must not allow the eu's internal and external policies to be out of sync, while respecting human rights that must not be sacrificed for the sake of any policy.
written. - on the global stage today, we are witnessing a number of political tensions and a variety of threats including the increasingly serious effects of climate change. i agree with the rapporteur, mr dané, that in such a context it is necessary to protect citizens while at the same time protecting and promoting the fundamental values of europe. the effective coordination and coherence of external action is of the utmost importance, and for this reason i support this report. i agree that the strength of the european union lies in its potential to mobilise a wide range of resources, such as instruments relating to diplomacy, security, defence, etc. the integrated approach, through the use of those instruments, is the appropriate response to current situations and threats. the concept, as defined in the report, should refer to the coordinated work of all relevant institutions implementing common objectives and mobilising the most important instruments. it is also important to underline the importance of support from member states in order to achieve the necessary progress in the union's external action on many global issues. in conclusion, strategic policy at eu level needs to be coordinated to become effective and deliver meaningful results.
written. - i support this report because it underlines the importance of effective coordination and coherence of the european union's external action. in the face of the growing struggle for energy and resource security, the increasingly severe effects of climate change and the severe and protracted global financial and economic crisis affecting all member states, the eu must preserve and promote its values, interests and stability on the global stage, as well as protect the security and well-being of its citizens. a new approach is needed to the shaping of a new world order that is non-exclusive, credible, just, open to cooperation and underpinned by respect for human rights, the rule of law and democracy, and that seeks to achieve the overcoming of differences without resorting to armed conflict. i hope for better alignment of trade policy and common foreign policy, which includes human rights and development. i call on all member states to fulfil their treaty-based obligations to provide active support for the union's external relations and security policy in a spirit of mutual solidarity.
written. - the rapporteur stresses that the eu's strength lies in its potential to mobilise resources through a whole range of diplomatic, security, defence, economic, trade, development and humanitarian instruments and that these instruments in the coherence approach give it unique flexibility to effectively tackle the most demanding international problems and achieve its political objectives. while i agree that effective coordination and coherence of the union's external activities is essential, i consider that the rapporteur is grossly violating the principle of subsidiarity by calling for the development of the above at union level, rather than at the level of individual member states of the union. i also find the rapporteur's call for the union to have a unique seat on the reformed un security council unacceptable. that's why i voted against it.
written. - i agree with the report on the commission's achievements, but also with the points on which further work needs to be done - primarily in terms of regular and timely information to parliament on its activities. as a member of the committee on foreign affairs, i agree with the committee's opinion, in particular on the acceptance of the principles of good administration and transparency in the management of the european union's resources. i would also mention that 2012 was also a crucial year for the republic of croatia - it was the last year before accession to the european union and croatia had to work closely with the commission to harmonise national legislation. we adopted a monitoring report on croatia's readiness for eu membership as well as a comprehensive monitoring report and, at the request of the commission, in close cooperation, an action plan to implement their recommendations. finally, i would like to express my hope that the commission's policy will in future include more social and employment policy in addition to market and monetary policy in order to meet future challenges.
written. - even though 80% of the european union funds are spent by national or regional authorities in the member states, the ultimate responsibility for monitoring the use of the funds available is vested in the european commission. agriculture and regional policy are areas where error rates have increased for the third year in a row. therefore, i agree with the text of the report which stresses the need to create national declarations in order to improve the monitoring of the legality and reliability of financial transactions. as a precondition for future budgetary increases, bilateral agreements should be concluded between those member states most affected and the body in charge of monitoring - the commission. i also believe that the commission must make even greater efforts in terms of monitoring the transparent spending of funds with a view to allocating funds to what they are insured for.
written. - i support the court of auditors' special reports under the commission's 2012 discharge. i welcome the call on the commission to improve the community framework for monitoring and evaluation and thereby provide member states and the commission with effective tools for collecting and analysing relevant data related to incentives financed through programmes such as the eafrd and the erdf. i share the view of the court of auditors and parliament that we need to encourage a stronger analysis of market needs in order to ensure a more efficient use of union programmes such as the marco polo programme. i would like to conclude with the question which is also the title of the court's special report - can the commission show that the budget allocated has been well spent? i believe it can, if we focus on measurable goals, transparent allocation of resources and diligent analysis of available data. i therefore expect more results in these areas in the commission's future work.
written. - i accept the report of the honourable member for the pieper group on the court of auditors' special report in the context of the dismissal of the commission in 2012. this report provides information on the problems concerning the implementation of the funds, which are of great use to parliament in its role of discharging certain bodies. the observations set out in this report constitute an important part of the discharge resolution in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2012.
written. - according to the court of auditors, the underlying expenditure and financial reporting obligations are legal and regular in all material respects to which the regular transactions have contributed and the court of auditors has estimated the most likely error rate for payments from the eighth, ninth and tenth edfs at 3%, showing a decrease compared to 2011 and an improvement in the system. the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the measures taken by the member states on the internal control systems of the institutions and bodies, in particular on the internal control systems of the institutions and bodies, and on the internal control systems of the bodies. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. in order to support developing countries in their fight against fraud, corruption and financial mismanagement, with a focus on the republic of congo, it is necessary to focus on the fact that democratic elections are a key element of governance, and i call on the commission and the eeas to carefully assess all risks and ensure that eu programmes in this area do not support regime-building. i support the report by highlighting the progress in financial management in the public sector and calling for more attention to be paid to the risks of corruption and fraud, preventing links with public financial management and reforms.
written. - the cotonou agreement, as the framework for the union's relations with third countries, has set as its main objective the reduction and ultimate eradication of poverty in line with the objectives of sustainable development and the progressive integration of developing countries into the world economy. the european development funds are the main financial instrument of the union for providing development cooperation to those countries, and their transparency and effectiveness in funding are of paramount importance. as good record-keeping is the foundation of sound financial management, i regret that the court of auditors' report notes frequent misrecording of financial transactions and hope that this negative trend will be stopped, supported by a reduction in the error rate compared to 2011. finally, i would welcome the objectives and successes of the european development funds and hope that they will continue to be generously funded, since poverty eradication is one of the union's fundamental missions.
written. - in the field of development, the eu cooperates with a number of developing countries. the main objective is to promote economic development with a particular focus on the fight against poverty. the union's funding for the implementation of the strategy comes from three sources: the eu budget, the european development fund and the european investment bank. the european development fund (edf) is the main instrument through which the union promotes the development of the african, caribbean and pacific (acp) states and the overseas countries and territories (octs). i welcome this resolution because i believe that many positive projects have been implemented to help developing countries, but also that efforts must continue to eradicate poverty and gradually integrate acp and oct countries into the world economy. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's development strategy and its implementation in the member states. the evaluation of projects in sub-saharan africa in 2012 showed improvements in project design, relevance and sustainability, but only slightly more than half of the projects were rated as good or very good. the commission has also identified a number of weaknesses in the pacific region, with only just over 40% of projects rated as good or very good. however, positive progress is being made in the caribbean, where over 75% of projects are rated as good or very good.
written. - i support the decision of the european parliament to postpone the discharge to the secretary-general of the council in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european council and of the council for the financial year 2012. i would point out that parliament also refused to give the secretary-general of the council discharge in respect of the implementation of the council's budget for the financial years 2009, 2010 and 2011. i agree that all union institutions should be transparent and fully accountable to the citizens of the union with regard to the funds entrusted to them as union institutions and i also support the view that the budgets of the european council and the council should be separated in order to contribute to the transparency of the financial management of the institutions and to improve the accountability of both institutions. the european parliament considers that effective budgetary control can only be exercised through the cooperation of parliament and the council and reiterates that without the cooperation of the council in the form referred to above it is not in a position to take a discharge decision on the basis of an understanding of the facts. on this occasion, i would also support parliament's recommendation to organise a workshop to analyse the legal aspects of parliament's budgetary control and the council's duty of cooperation and to draw up a draft own-initiative report focusing on possible amendments to the tfeu with a view to the possibility of bringing legal proceedings, as well as the possibility of amending or clarifying the provisions on discharge to other institutions.
written. - in 2012, the european council and the council had a total budget of eur 533 920 000 with an implementation rate of 91%, which shows that the under-utilisation of funds is still high and that there is a need to develop key performance indicators within the most critical areas: travel delegations, logistics and interpretation. in order to increase the transparency of financial management and to enhance the accountability of both institutions, it is necessary to separate the budgets of the european council and the council. the effective control of the implementation of the eu budget requires cooperation between parliament, the european council and the council through working arrangements. i consider that good cooperation between parliament and the council is of the utmost importance in ensuring the proper implementation of the union budget and i have therefore supported this discharge. i also believe that all the eu institutions do not follow the same standards of transparency and i believe that the council should make improvements in this regard, that is, that the council and parliament should apply the same standards of transparency.
written. - the european external action service aims to assist the high representative in ensuring the consistency and coherence of the union's external action. the service also assists the president of the european council and the president and members of the commission in their respective external relations functions and ensures close cooperation with the member states. catherine ashton has been appointed high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, chairs the foreign affairs council and is also vice-president of the european commission. the eeas staff shall be drawn from the european commission, the general secretariat of the council and the diplomatic services of the eu member states. i welcome the discharge given by the european parliament to the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european external action service (eeas) for the financial year 2012. i support the proposal of the eeas for simplification of november 2013 and the implementation by the commission of the proposed changes as well as the further simplification of the current funding of that body. as noted by the rapporteur, mr deutsch, the current budget structure, which includes contributions from 26 different commission budget lines and from the european development fund, does not allow a clear overview of the actual costs and expenditure incurred by the eeas and its delegations.
written. - the european external action service (eeas) is a newly formed institution resulting from the consolidation of the external relations department of the council of the eu and the european commission. the commission has also received comments from the united kingdom on the application of the state aid rules to the aid scheme for the production of electricity from renewable sources. the eeas's objective is to make the eu's foreign policy more coherent and effective, thereby enhancing the eu's influence in the world. the eeas supports the eu's strategic partnerships with key international players as well as the eu's cooperation with emerging countries. at the global level, it is engaged in peacebuilding through political and economic support, as for example in the western balkan countries after the civil war. i welcome this discharge, as in its second year of operation the eeas has continued to implement the budget without significant material errors as identified by the court of auditors. however, the current structure of the eeas budget with contributions from 26 different budgetary resources of the commission and the european development fund does not allow a clear overview of the actual operating costs of the eeas but also of its delegations, and there is a need to simplify the ongoing funding of the eeas. i also welcome the fact that the number of women in the delegation has doubled since 2011 and that there are now 22 women in senior positions at the headquarters.
mr. president, prevention is better than cure. that's the motto we need to follow in our work. i personally consider consumer safety to be one of the fundamental responsibilities of the european institutions. the more information citizens have about the food they eat, the more they trust us. the beef transport system is based on animal papers and national data systems which are not harmonised. it is high time that industry and the legislature keep pace with the development of technology. it is important to allow a transitional period for livestock farmers to adjust to the system in economic and operational terms. however, the disadvantage of this proposal is that cloned animals and their offspring will not be labelled as such. the opportunity to introduce better controls on the quantities of meat imported into the european union from third countries has been missed. i think we need to put pressure on the commission to make more efforts in quality regulation in this area.
written. - as the european union is the third largest beef producer in the world, just behind the united states and brazil, and as we have over 30 000 herds of cattle in the european union, that is approximately 30 million individuals, food safety in the beef sector is very important to us. the commission has also proposed that the rules on the tracing and identification of bovine animals be amended to ensure that the tracing and identification of bovine animals is not carried out by a third country. i agree with the rapporteur on the simplification of the beef labelling system. although in cases where the movement of livestock is very high, such as auctions of throats, slaughterhouses or farms, the use of electronic identification systems is very useful, i agree that this issue is best left to the farmers themselves, as farmers across the union have different experience and knowledge of the use of this technology, and i believe that the introduction of the obligation of electronic identification would make the rearing process considerably more difficult for many farmers in some member states.
written. - i supported the report by ms auconie on the amended proposal for a regulation on the electronic identification system for bovine animals. directive (ec) no 1760/2000 introduced a single system for the marking of bovine animals with the aim of ensuring traceability, better controlling the movements of animals and avoiding the recurrence of cases of mad cow disease. the rapid development of information technology and the experience of countries already applying electronic labelling based on radio frequency identification and completely harmless, require support for a single, unambiguous and unified electronic labelling. the benefits of labelling from a consumer protection point of view are the traceability that allows each consumer to know from which farms and from which animals he consumes the products. from the standpoint of the food industry, and even the farmers themselves, the main advantage is faster handling and easier computerized recording and control. the computerization also makes it easier and faster to monitor the movement and handling of animals, both those originating in the eu and those imported, due to the labelling obligation. it is also significant because of the possibility that food proven to be locally grown can be offered on the tourist market, such as in croatia. provision should also be made for the possibility of providing electronic labelling through appropriate services to old, small and informally deprived rural households.
written. - this proposal for a regulation seeks to meet three major new challenges: to take account of the emergence of electronic identification technology (eid) for bovine animals, to simplify the rules governing the labelling of meat, and to update the rules governing the commission's powers to take account of the entry into force of the lisbon treaty and the new provisions on transposed and implementing acts. i agree with this proposal because it ultimately ensures that legislation on the labelling and tracing of bovine animals is clear and enforceable and thus optimises food safety.
written. - i support this report because it aims to provide a legal framework for the labelling of bovine animals, based on clarity and enforceability, leading to optimum food safety. i believe that, given the importance of this issue, the legal framework to guarantee the protection of citizens in the field of food safety needs to be continuously updated and strengthened. the electronic identification of bovine animals (eid) allows for more reliable data, speeds up the registration of bovine animals, introduces mechanisation of certain tasks and increases the efficiency of herd management, which contributes to the automation of the whole process and to the quantity and quality of protection of citizens. it is necessary to harmonise technical standards in order to allow for synchronisation between national systems and thus contribute to transparency and to the quality of protection of citizens irrespective of the member state. food security is one of the main concerns of both eu citizens and croats. the republic of croatia recognised the need to establish a national food safety authority even before joining the eu and established the croatian food agency (hah) which started its work on 3 january 2005 in osijek. the commission has also received comments from the applicant, the applicant's representative in the european parliament, the european economic and social committee and the committee of the regions.
written. - i welcome this proposal because, although electronic identification for cattle is a technology that should be applied as widely as possible, its use should not cause disruption in individual markets that do not yet meet the conditions for the uniform application of such an obligation. i therefore particularly support this initiative in that it gives member states the power to decide whether to impose the use of electronic identification on their farmers, taking into account the diversity and specificities of each country and each market. on the other hand, i welcome the deletion of the provisions on voluntary beef labelling because, apart from the fact that their application was not harmonised at eu level, i consider that they impose on farmers an unnecessary administrative and financial burden that has not proved to be justified because it has not brought a proportionate benefit to farmers in effectively advertising their products.
written. - the court of justice of the european union interprets eu law to ensure that it is applied uniformly in all member states. the european parliament is the main institution of the european union. the european parliament has decided to grant the registrar of the court of justice of the european union discharge in respect of the implementation of the court of justice's budget for the financial year 2012, and i hereby support that decision. i welcome the conclusions of the annual report that no significant weaknesses or errors were identified in relation to funding issues. however, i agree with my colleague deutsch who regretted the reduction in the number of completed cases and i call for an increase in the number of cases. i support the need for cost rationalisation repeatedly in the report, and especially the changes already achieved in this respect. as an example, i would point to the switch from paper to electronic reports. the e-curia application has enabled the electronic exchange of documents relating to judicial proceedings and decisions between all parties and between the courts of the court of justice of the european union after 1 january 2012 and has led to significant cost savings. also, despite the court's obligations to conduct proceedings in all 24 official languages and to translate all decisions into the official languages which i support, i agree with the idea of streamlining the court's translation services.
written. - the court of auditors stated in its annual report that there were no significant errors in the audited topics related to the human resources and procurement sector for the court of justice of the eu. the court of auditors concluded that all payments were closed as at 31 december 2012 and that the execution rate was 98,63%, which is higher than in 2011. i welcome the fact that the court has prepared a detailed annual report on its work, including information on the management of human resources as requested by parliament. the president of the tribunal shall be appointed by the president of the republic, acting by a majority of three-fifths of the votes cast. these reforms have contributed to certain changes in the system, but further reforms can further improve the system.
written. - i supported this report and i welcome the efficiency of the court of auditors in 2012. the court of auditors' annual financial statements were audited by the independent external auditor pricewaterhousecoopers d.o.o. in order to successfully apply the same principles of transparency and accountability that the court of auditors applies to its auditors. the court of auditors has also made a number of recommendations to the commission, including the following: parliament recalls the need for the budgetary and legislative arm of the court of auditors to provide not only a statement of assurance on the reliability of financial statements, but also reliable and sustainable opinions on the results obtained by the various union policies. the report also invites the court of auditors to examine the possibility of presenting its annual report by 30 june as this is considered to lead to a significant improvement in the auditing of the union's financial statements and to enhance and simplify the union's performance and effectiveness.
written. - the court of auditors, as the control institution of the european union, is responsible for checking the revenue and expenditure, the legality and regularity, and the regularity of all transactions of all bodies set up by the community, unless excluded by a constitutional act, and its important role is reflected in the fact that the court of auditors is the fifth basic institution of the european union. i am pleased that the court of auditors in 2012 brought many innovations such as a new code of conduct, and also successfully implemented all agreed action programmes, for which i congratulate this institution. the cooperation between the court of auditors and the european parliament's committee on budgetary control and the regular provision of feedback on parliament's requests has also been noted, which is commendable and i hope will continue in the future.
written. - the court of auditors, as an external auditor, acts as an independent guardian of the financial interests of eu citizens and contributes to improving financial management. its role is to improve the management of eu finances and reporting on the use of public funds. in order to do its job well, the court of auditors must be completely independent of the other institutions, but also remain in constant contact with them. i welcome this discharge and the fact that the overall budget implementation rate for 2012 was 96%. i also welcome the fact that the average time for the implementation of the special report has been reduced from 25 months to 20 months. however, there is always room for improvement and the court should set clearer objectives in order to achieve more effective results. similarly, there is a need to set time-frames even for projects that do not have a deadline (special reports). in view of the 2013-2017 audit strategy, it is necessary to ensure quality improvement for all stages of the audit process. i also welcome the cooperation between the court of auditors and the committee on budgetary control and the regular feedback on parliament's requests.
written. - the european economic and social committee is one of the oldest bodies of the european union, established in 1957 by the treaty of rome. its advisory role is of particular importance in the work of the union as they constitute an instrument for communication between the public, private and civil sectors and their mutual consultation in the legislative process. in order to continue to perform its important function effectively, the eesc, i agree with the report, must continue to monitor its staff structure to ensure that the organisation of posts is fully effective and contributes to better spending of the budget allocated. finally, i would commend the videoconferencing mechanism as a useful tool for achieving budgetary savings and efficiency and would recommend it to other bodies and agencies of the european union.
written. - i have a positive opinion of the report. the court of auditors has concluded that the payments for administrative and other expenditure of the institutions and bodies were made without any problems or irregularities, in accordance with the audit of operations carried out. the court of auditors also concluded in its 2012 report that there were no material weaknesses in the human resources and procurement operations of the economic and social committee (esc). the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 264 concerning the establishment of a european data protection supervisor. the budget is being increased by 0.2% and the committee should be encouraged to limit the use of the budget so that costs do not increase further. i also welcome the decision to make the statements on the use of funds by the committee public as was done in 2012 to ensure transparency and to enjoy greater trust. the announced project to modernise documents within the committee is also an interesting step forward, but the committee itself still needs to act in a way that ensures a reduction in translation costs in order to simplify functioning and to ensure comparability of costs incurred.
madam president, i support the motion for a decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the committee of the regions for the financial year 2012. in this context, i welcome the fact that the audit of the annual report did not identify any shortcomings in the management of human resources and public procurement for the committee of the regions. each institution of the european union is required to spend its resources efficiently and on purpose. the cost and incomplete reporting harms all taxpayers in the european union. i also support the agreement on administrative cooperation between the committee of the regions and the european economic and social committee, and hope that further deepening of cooperation will contribute to further rationalisation of costs, which is ultimately in the interest of all citizens of the european union. in conclusion, i thank the rapporteur and welcome the recommendations of the day with a discharge to the secretary-general of the committee of the regions. given that the court of auditors has not identified significant errors in administrative payments and other expenditure, i am pleased to conclude that the committee has been guided by the principles of transparency and the protection of the financial interests of the european union and its citizens.
written. - the treaty on european union established the committee of the regions as an assembly of regional authorities in the member states to respond to requests for direct influence on the decision-making of the union concerning local or regional interests, and of the 353 members of the committee, croatia participates in nine of them. i agree that cost rationalisation is possible in the context of closer cooperation with the european economic and social committee and the parliament, especially in the area of translation, and i am pleased that cooperation is moving in the right direction in this respect. although it is neither an executive nor a legislative body, the functioning of the committee of the regions is of paramount political importance and i therefore welcome and fully support its work.
written. - i support this report. the commission has also received comments from the european parliament and the council on the draft budget for the european schools for the financial year 2012 (com (2013) 0173). also, all payments were made in accordance with expectations, without deviation. the total budget for 2012 was eur 86 503 000, an increase compared to 2011 when the budget was eur 84 059 000. i also support projects carried out within the committee as an organisation, which as a result have to ensure better coordination of new activities carried out by the committee with the synergy of usual activities. i particularly welcome the committee's activities on energy consumption, given the knowledge that all electricity is supplied from renewable sources, which i personally would like to see in practice in all other institutions and bodies of the european union. the committee must continue to monitor closely the structure of its staff to ensure full efficiency of the organisation resulting in an efficient use of the allocated budget. the human resources within the committee must have appropriate it support to adapt to all the requirements of the new, modern, digital society.
written. - i would like to express my satisfaction that the court of auditors has not identified any significant weaknesses in terms of human resources and procurement for the european ombudsman and has not found material errors in the payments for administrative and other expenditure. i think this is great news because this is the only occasion where we are subjecting the implementation of the budget of this extremely important eu institution to a detailed examination and public scrutiny. in line with the findings of the audit, the ombudsman's institution significantly improved its financial planning, which then had a positive impact on the implementation of the budget. i believe that in this time of economic and financial crisis, the effective management of eu funds is more important than ever. the citizens expect us to pay special attention to the spending of funds. the publication of high-quality and consistent annual reports is essential as it is the only way to ensure the credibility of the institutions and to build a positive public perception of activities financed by the eu budget. i support the motion for a resolution on discharge and am convinced that the observations made in the resolution will contribute to better governance and to better procedures and internal rules for the institution of the european ombudsman. i also support the recommendation of the committee on budgetary control for the urgent implementation of the outstanding measures concerning minimum standards for internal control and management of public procurement procedures.
written. - the european ombudsman has an important function of investigating irregularities in the activities of the european institutions and bodies, and all citizens of the union, as well as residents of all member states, have the right to complain. to maintain the quality and success of this important function, it is crucial to ensure sustainable and efficient funding and i am therefore pleased that the court of auditors commends the ombudsman's financial management. on the audit side, i hope that the ombudsman will implement the two outstanding measures from the internal audit report, and i commend the progress and good practice in financial management: in addition to improvements in financial planning to ensure more efficient budget implementation, there is a 2012 management plan which used measurable targets as performance indicators, which is useful and which i hope will be used in future budget periods.
written. - i support this report. the court of auditors also found no irregularities in the ombudsman's work in this case. the commission notes that the capital injections were made in accordance with the principles of sound financial management and prudent private investor assessment. of the total budget of eur 9 516 500, the largest part, eur 7 275 000, was spent on staff salaries, eur 1 656 500 was invested in the maintenance of buildings, equipment and other operating costs, while eur 585 000 went to specific activities of the institution. the big problem here is the translation of the material, which can be corrected to ensure cooperation with the other institutions. it is very positive that the percentage of decisions taken on complaints within one month of receipt of the complaint has increased significantly, reaching 85% in 2012. of course, we need to continue to work in the same direction and to keep working to raise that percentage. the european ombudsman has to report on how much money is being spent on promotion and reaching out to the citizens themselves, given his growing importance and social presence.
the european data protection supervisor's primary objective is to ensure that the european institutions and bodies respect the right to privacy and data protection when using personal data. this is an important role, especially in light of recent revelations about the high level of compromise of our personal data and privacy in general. as privacy is particularly important with regard to new technologies such as smartphones and internet services such as remote data storage services and social networks, i welcome the reorganisation of the supervisor's secretariat and the consequent establishment of a new information and communication technologies department and agree with the court's request to be informed of the budgetary impact of the reorganisation.
written. - i have a positive opinion of the report. as the court of auditors has reported that the audit of the european data protection supervisor's operations has found no irregularities or operational problems, i conclude that they have done their job satisfactorily. the court also concluded that the business rationalisation measures introduced for 2012 have delivered concrete results and it is further commendable that the edps continues to be tasked with improving the monitoring of systems and control of business activities. the eu institutions and bodies must respect the individual's right to privacy when processing personal data. the edps has done his job well so far, but he is expected to continue to advise citizens on all aspects of the processing of personal data. when it comes to processing, it is important to know how to protect ourselves against all those activities related to the collection, recording and storage of data, access to data, transmission and making it available to others, and blocking, deleting or destroying data. the commission has also concluded that the measures provided for in this decision are in accordance with the opinion of the standing committee on plants, animals, food and feed,
written. - i support the report on the performance, financial management and control of eu agencies. the tasks entrusted to the european union agencies are of great importance and have a direct impact on the daily lives of citizens. for this reason, the number of agencies has increased considerably during the last century. i welcome and support their work and efforts and agree with my colleague sarvam who recalls that these agencies must meet the highest standards, including ensuring transparency. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 concerning the conditions for the participation of the european parliament in the work of the agency. i call for the continuation of existing good practices with synergy effects between agencies such as, as indicated in the report, the memorandum of understanding and related annual action programmes, joint research projects, peer reviews of draft research reports, the exchange of research methodologies and prior consultation on work programmes to avoid overlaps and duplication of activities with a view to more effective outcomes. finally, i recognise the role that agencies play in supporting eu policies.
written. - i support this report. the commission's communication on the future of the european union's external borders (com (2001) 570 final) is a first step in this direction. the commission should also be able to provide the necessary information to the member states and the commission in order to ensure that the union's policies are effectively implemented. it's also good to know that many agencies are set up in a way that their focus is on freedom, security and justice, and that's extra good because those are the very topics that we need to pay special attention to without opening up something that we don't need. to do their best, agencies need to try to pool their own resources, share experiences and help each other by providing services. i welcome the new financial rules applicable to the agencies, primarily because they are simplified and will allow for a reduction in the costs of administrative staff employed in the agencies themselves. in conclusion, i am pleased that the court of auditors has delivered a positive opinion on the work of the eu agencies and i conclude that the agencies will develop further in the future.
written. - the third energy package, which established the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators, aims to provide an effective regulatory framework for the development of an open and competitive energy market within the union. at the opening of the agency, energy commissioner günther oettinger stated that his priority was to remove all barriers to the internal energy market so that energy could flow freely throughout the union. the agency has a key role to play in this regard, given its responsibilities in addressing cross-border problems of national regulators. the discharge letter mentions several problems and, although none of the problems mentioned are excessive, if they are considered as a whole, it is clear that the agency needs to make progress with regard to further main lines of action for the following year.
written. - i have a positive opinion of the report. the agency is tasked with ensuring that the principles of the eu single market function in the trade and distribution of renewable and non-renewable energy sources while, at the same time, assisting national regulatory authorities (in croatia, hera) to carry out their regulatory functions at a pan-european level. the agency's other activities, such as removing technical barriers to cross-border energy trade, coordinating the activities of national energy regulators and helping to resolve potential conflicts between them, require special attention. if successful, we will improve competition and ensure fair prices for both consumers and businesses. in the internal energy market, we must remove all barriers to allow energy to flow freely throughout the union, and the single european energy market must become our reality. the agency should communicate its activities and impact to citizens as effectively as possible through the most accessible means, most likely an interactive website.
the body of european regulators for electronic communications was established in 2009 as a committee composed of national regulatory authorities from all member states, with the aim of promoting good practice among national regulatory authorities and developing common approaches, methodologies and ways of acting on electronic communications issues within the framework of european legislation. the 2012 was an important year for the authority as it was the year in which the committee adopted a short-term strategic perspective which is used to develop the annual programmes. i am concerned about the fact that this agency has no cash management policy and that as a result, at the end of 2012, all the money held by the agency was held in a bank with a bbb credit rating and i hope that the agency will take the necessary measures to address this issue.
written. - i have a positive opinion of the report. the authority should be able to assess the effectiveness of the measures taken by the member states in the field of electronic communications in order to ensure that they are proportionate and effective. berec has continued to act as the successor to the european regulators group (erg) in the exchange of expertise and best practices as well as in activities relating to the functioning of the union telecommunications market. the authority shall assist the european commission and national regulatory authorities in the application of eu electronic communications legislation. the fact that berec is composed of 28 regulatory authorities adds weight to the whole story, given that it is made up of the national regulatory authorities of the member states and their office is an official body of the european union. the agency shall, in accordance with the principles set out in article 7 of regulation (eu) no 1095/2010, develop and maintain a network of national regulatory authorities in order to ensure the effective functioning of the internal market. in conclusion, this is a body with great potential whose future perspective is yet to be expressed.
written. - the translation centre for the bodies of the european union, with its seat in luxembourg, has its own legal personality and is financed autonomously by fees charged by the agencies, offices and institutions for the provision of translation services. the centre shall provide translation services for other union agencies and institutions and, where necessary, assist other bodies that have their own translation services when their capacities are insufficient. the centre is constantly developing and increasing both in terms of work and staff to handle the increased volume of work. the centre currently employs around 140 staff. it is important to note that the centre also participates in the work of the interinstitutional committee on translation, which aims to promote cooperation based on the principles of subsidiarity and rationalisation in the field of translation, leading to considerable savings. i hope that in the years to come the centre will continue to work successfully, integrating all the official languages, including those of the new member states, in an equal way. i support the decision of the european parliament to dismiss the director of the translation centre for the bodies of the european union for the implementation of the centre's budget for the financial year 2012. the final budget of the translation centre for bodies of the european union for the financial year 2012 was eur 48 292 749, representing a decrease of 5,86% compared to the previous year, and commends the centre for its good budget planning.
written. - i have a positive opinion of the report. there were no budgetary problems or delays in the year. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the amount of the aid granted to the beneficiaries. the public procurement was carried out in accordance with the rules and expectations. since its establishment in 1994, the centre, which has its seat in luxembourg, has had its own legal personality and is financed autonomously by fees paid by agencies, offices and institutions for translation services rendered. i also look positively at the development of the centre itself, whose efficiency has increased many times over compared to the beginning of the work, so i conclude that it should continue moving in the same direction. i consider the centre itself to be very well structured, given that it is composed of a management board, a president and three offices. each enlargement of the european union brings with it an increase in linguistic diversity which automatically increases the scope of work for the centre itself and it is therefore necessary to make extensive preparations in time to enable the work planned to be carried out without unforeseen difficulties.
the european centre for the development of vocational training has an advisory role and assists the commission, the member states, the eu institutions and other organisations with which it cooperates to make informed decisions on vocational training policies on the basis of its research and data. the centre provides its staff with up-to-date information on the state and trends in vocational education and training in the eu and produces studies and reports on vocational education and training issues such as quality, transparency and accreditation of non-formal learning, sector trends, new qualifications, funding, etc. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council. i agree with the decision of the european parliament to grant the director of the european centre for the development of vocational training discharge in respect of the implementation of the centre's budget for the financial year 2012. the centre has a very important role to play in promoting vocational education and training across the union at a time when new methods of training are needed. the centre also makes a major contribution to policies aimed at exploring the potential of vocational education and training to support economic development and facilitate the transition from education to work.
written. - i have a positive opinion of the report. the centre plays a major role in promoting vocational training at eu level at a time when new methods are needed. in cooperation with union policies tasked with developing the potential needed for economic development, it affects all activities, from the education of individuals to employment, which is particularly important in these difficult times of crisis. it is also positive to note the wide range of stakeholders who have approached the cooperation centre itself, which is a testament to the quality of its work. as planned, the centre has fulfilled all its targets for 2012, which i particularly welcome, and it is important to note that the court of auditors concluded that there were no problems in its operations. the centre's activities are particularly to be commended and encouraged, and among them are the european training village (etv) website, which is essentially an interactive website, and the cedefop info sheet, which publishes information on current developments in vocational training in all member states and is available in several languages.
in writing. - with the vote of the house, we have approved the 2012 discharge for the execution of the academy's budget for the 2012 financial year. noting some shortcomings, the report adopted today calls on the academy to review the current conflict of interest provisions with a view to developing a specific policy on the basis of the commission's guidelines on the prevention and management of conflicts of interest in decentralised agencies of the european union.
written. - i supported this report to improve financial management within the european police college. the academy has carried out a process of rationalising its budget structure by reducing the number of budget items. i support the overall progress of the european police college in financial management in recent years and hope that it will continue in this direction. furthermore, as regards financial management, it is necessary to take into account the shortcomings in budget planning and the lack of transparency in the recruitment process. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the establishment of a european police college.
the european police college brings together senior police officers from across europe to foster cross-border cooperation in the fight against crime, public security and public order. as regards transparency and open procurement and recruitment procedures, i am pleased that the academy is currently in the process of reviewing its conflict of interest mechanisms with a view to developing a specific policy on conflicts of interest on the basis of the commission's draft guidelines on the prevention and handling of conflicts of interest in decentralised union agencies. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of beneficiaries of the scheme, but that the number of beneficiaries of the scheme is limited to the number of beneficiaries of the scheme.
written. - i have a positive opinion of the report. the court of auditors concluded that the annual transactions of the academy (cepol) were carried out in line with expectations in all material respects. the efforts made over the years by the academy in its own financial management are commendable and should therefore be encouraged to continue in the same direction, although there is still room for improvement in planning and increased transparency. as the aim of the academy is to bring together senior police officers from across europe to foster cross-border cooperation in the fight against crime, the preservation of public security and public order, it is clear that there is great development potential for the european union as a whole. i consider the academy to be well organised in view of its four committees set up by the management board: the annual programme committee (apc), the budget and administration committee (bac), the strategy committee (sc) and the education and research committee (trc). i also support the continuation of the close cooperation between the academy and the croatian police academy, or police college, which started on 7 december 2010 at the mission of the republic of croatia to the european union in brussels.
written. - the development of air safety rules is important to move towards the goal of a single european sky, which is important for the mobility of eu citizens, but also for the efficiency of those who often travel by air on european routes for business reasons. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the establishment of a european aviation safety agency. i am therefore pleased that the level and nature of the 2012 financial transfers and budget planning are at a high level, although there is still room for improvement in terms of transparency and recruitment procedures and internal controls, especially in the case mentioned in the report on the recruitment of staff without the necessary qualifications.
the european aviation safety agency has a crucial role to play in maintaining and improving the level of aviation safety in the eu. the complexity of this work imposes numerous tasks on the agency requiring skilled staff, high technological standards and, of course, an optimal financial structure. the commission should be able to use the appropriations made available to it for the purpose of the budgetary procedure to provide the necessary financial support to the agency. while it is not easy to accept an increase in spending in times of economic crisis, i believe that such an outcome is both realistic and expected. air traffic is growing rapidly, and with it the cost of air traffic control. it is important to emphasise that the agency's expenditure in 2012 remained within the limits set, all as a result of realistic budget planning. i also welcome the fact that of the 5 comments highlighted by the court in its 2011 report, 3 have already been marked as resolved and 2 are in the process of being resolved. the corrective actions taken by the agency in response to the parliament's resolution of 17 april 2013 highlighting anomalies in the selection process of candidates and the occurrence of conflicts of interest also represent a positive step towards reducing them.
in writing. - the european asylum support office acquired financial autonomy on 20 september 2012, while until that date its budget had been implemented by the commission. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
written. - i supported the report on the implementation of the budget of the european asylum support office for the financial year 2012. the annual budget of the european asylum support office was eur 10 million and faithfully reflects the results of the business and financial year 2012 in all material respects. the underlying transactions shown in the financial statements are legal and regular. the court of auditors also did not have any observations in its annual report on the recruitment procedures of the european asylum support office. the court of auditors has therefore stated that it has obtained reasonable assurance that the annual accounts of the european asylum support office for the financial year 2012 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular.
written. - the european asylum support office is an independent asylum expertise centre which supports, facilitates, coordinates and strengthens practical cooperation between member states and contributes to the implementation of the common european asylum system. in recent years, with the number of asylum seekers increasing significantly, and unevenly across member states, the work of this office has become even more important. the european parliament has decided to grant a discharge to the director-general of the european asylum support office in respect of the implementation of the office's budget for the financial year 2012, and i support that decision. i also support the view of mr sarvame that the annual report on the work of the office should be published in all the official languages of the union, and not only in english, as is the case now. if it is not possible to publish it immediately in all the official languages of the union, i agree that at least the german and french versions of the report should be published for the time being.
written. - the results of the final annual report of the european asylum support office, as well as the reports of the court of auditors, indicate the transparency and legality of the office's transactions in 2012. this makes the conditions for discharge and closure of the 2012 budget available. however, it is important to apostrophize the observations which have been made on the office's work and which need to be eliminated in the following period. the office was granted financial independence on 20 september 2012, which means that the budget is no longer applied by the european commission, as was the case previously. the commission has also provided information on the implementation of the budget for the period 2014-2020 to the european parliament and the council. this is contrary to the principle of annuality and efforts should be stepped up to maximise the use of the funds. the commission notes that the transfer of eur 2 000 000 was not documented in the contract and was therefore irregular as such. the court of auditors did not object to the office's recruitment procedures, nor to the policy implemented by the office relating to the management and prevention of conflicts of interest.
in writing. - parliament played a key role in the establishment of the european banking authority, as well as the european securities and markets authority and the european insurance and occupational pensions authority, as part of the triad of european economic and financial supervisory authorities. while it considered that better coordination at european level was still needed, it approved the closure of the accounts of the european banking authority for the financial year 2012.
written. - the european parliament has initiated the establishment of a european banking authority (eba). the european supervisory authorities are still in the early stages of their work, which is why the commission, the council and the parliament consider that there is still a need for better coordination at european level. it is noted that the additional tasks entrusted to eba, as well as future tasks envisaged by the legislative proposals, will require additional budgetary resources and new human resources, all in order to fulfil their supervisory role in a satisfactory manner. this is important because the workload of supervisory authorities is expected to increase and greater efficiency should be achieved through rationalisation or redistribution of tasks. the current financial engagements of the european banking authority are based on a blended finance system and as such are not sufficiently efficient. the commission shall, by means of implementing acts, lay down the rules on the application of this regulation. the commission therefore recommends and calls for the creation of a separate budget line financed from the eu budget and for the introduction of fees paid by market participants to be considered during the review.
written. - ensuring the integrity, efficiency and proper functioning of the banking sector is important for the financial stability of the european union and therefore the work of the european banking authority, especially in terms of its transparency and lack of conflict of interest of staff, is extremely important for the future of the union and i therefore support the call on the authority to make the cvs of the members of the management board public, for example by publishing them on the websites. i also hope that the unnecessary administrative burden of the authority's current inflexible blended funding system will soon be changed, on the recommendation of the economic and monetary policy committee, to be financed directly from the budget of the european union.
written. - the european banking authority is responsible for ensuring the effective and consistent implementation of regulation and supervision of the european banking sector. its role in creating transparency in the work of banks is very important, and it is therefore of particular importance that this independent eu body operates in accordance with the rules and requirements imposed on it. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the amount of the aid granted to the beneficiaries. the level and nature of the transfers during 2012 remained within the limits of the financial rules, which indicates good budgetary planning. however, it is necessary to highlight the non-harmonisation of the authority with the european capital markets authority and the european insurance and structural pensions authority, which points to the need for better cooperation and coordination between those bodies. the authority also found that the authority had not provided any evidence that the aid granted to the beneficiary was compatible with the internal market. the additional fee should therefore be aligned with the rules of procedure. in 2012, the court also identified irregularities in recruitment procedures which affected transparency and the principle of equal treatment.
written. - having regard to the annual financial report and the court of auditors' findings, i support the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european centre for disease prevention and control for the year 2012, as well as the decision to close the accounts of the above-mentioned centre. the centre's budget for 2012 was eur 58 200 000, representing a slight increase of 2,72% compared to the 2011 budget. the eu's share in that budget is 97,8%, which is 2,4% higher compared to the eu's share in the 2011 budget. the court of auditors' opinion on the legality and regularity of the centre's 2011 transactions was conditional on non-compliance with the maximum amount of the 2009 framework contract. the court of auditors has, however, based its unconditional opinion on the legality and regularity of the 2012 transactions on the corrective actions taken by the centre. the implementation rate is also very high at 93,91%. however, shortcomings have also been identified in relation to the allocation of grants to research institutions and individuals. the total expenditure for grants amounted to eur 752 000 and represents 1,4% of the expenditure in the total expenditure structure. the problem is that the centre does not normally require users to provide documentation to confirm the accuracy of the costs shown. it is therefore necessary to carry out an ex post verification of the 2012 appropriations.
written. - the european chemicals agency aims to ensure consistency in chemical management in the european union, providing technical and scientific advice, guidance and information on chemicals. the authority also has the responsibility for coordinating and implementing the new regulations. i support the decision of the european parliament to give a discharge to the director of the european chemicals agency in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2012. i particularly commend the progress made compared with the previous year as stated in the court's report. the commission has not received any comments from interested parties on the measures in force. i also agree with the rapporteur sarvamaa who welcomes the work of the agency in implementing union chemicals legislation within its statutory role and responsibilities.
written. - the final annual financial report and the court of auditors' finding refer to the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european chemicals agency for the year 2012, as well as to the adoption of a decision on the closure of the agency's accounts for 2012. the agency's 2012 reports indicate the transparency and legality of the transactions for that year, in which the budget amounted to eur 98 900 000, representing an increase of the budget of 6,12% compared to 2011. the european commission also awarded the agency an incentive for 2012 of eur 4 184 040. it is commendable that the agency has taken corrective action on the 2011 discharge comments, with 2 actions being marked as completed and 2 being in the process of being addressed. positive developments are also visible in the field of employment, as well as in the area of protection against possible conflicts of interest. the 2012 budget implementation rates for titles 1 and 2 were satisfactory, however the commitment rate for title 3 is a worrying 50%. the physical inventory also shows certain shortcomings, primarily related to the safekeeping and monitoring of fixed assets. for example, 306 items from the inventory were not found, of which 93 were laptops and 29 were personal computers.
the european environment agency aims to ensure quality and independent environmental information. it is a key source of information for all actors, including the general public, involved in the development, adoption, implementation and evaluation of environmental policy. the agency assists the community and the member states in making informed decisions on improving the environment by integrating environmental issues into economic policies and by coordinating the european environment information and observation network. i support the discharge given by the european parliament to the executive director of the european environment agency for the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2012. the agency's final budget for the financial year 2012 is eur 41 700 000, representing an increase of 1,25% compared to the previous year. i agree with the opinion of my colleague sarvame who regrets the fact that the travel expenses of the executive director of the agency for 2012 are significantly higher than the travel expenses of the executive directors of other agencies and that further clarification of that situation is necessary.
written. - the budget of the european environment agency for the financial year 2012 is eur 41 700 000, representing an increase of 1,25% compared to the 2011 budget. however, it is commendable and important to note that the share of union funds in the agency's budget has decreased by 0,23% compared to 2011. it is also commendable that the agency corrected all the comments concerning the 2011 discharge. the 2012 implementation rate is 99,19% and the payment appropriations execution rate is 89,41%. however, it is also important to highlight the comments that must be taken into account for the period to come. the agency has allocated grants under three programmes in 2012, and these grants represent 27% of the total operational costs, although the agency does not normally require beneficiaries to provide documentation to confirm the acceptability and accuracy of the costs shown. the agency's executive director's travel expenses for 2012 are also significantly higher than those of the executive directors of other agencies. it would therefore be desirable for the agency to further explain these costs to the discharge authority for 2012.
the european fisheries control agency is an independent executive body that cooperates with the european commission, the member states, regional advisory councils and third parties such as regional fisheries organisations. the missions of the said agency are numerous and they include coordinating the surveillance and inspection activities of the member states under the common fisheries policy, contributing to the joint research and development of new control and inspection bodies, organising the implementation of joint national control and inspection resources, etc. the agency is also of particular importance as it plays a major role in bringing member states closer together and ensuring better and more effective fisheries controls at community level through activities such as operational coordination, joint training of inspectors, implementation of harmonisation and exchange of knowledge and experience. according to the financial statements, the final budget of the european fisheries control agency for the financial year 2012 was eur 9 216 900, representing a reduction of 28,27% compared to 2011. i agree with parliament's decision to discharge the director-general of the european fisheries control agency in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2012. i personally attach great importance to fisheries policy and welcome the agency's efficiency in carrying out all the tasks it fulfils.
the european fisheries control agency has a key role to play in the implementation and enforcement of the reform of the common fisheries policy (cfp). the requirements for the agency are becoming increasingly complex. large resources are needed to meet the growing need for monitoring, control and surveillance of fisheries activities. the agency's budgetary resources in 2012 showed a declining trend compared to the previous year, by 28,27%. the union's share in the agency's 2012 budget also decreased by 13,78%. i believe that in the years to come, we must ensure the maximum possible financial and human capacity in response to the constantly increasing need for monitoring of fishing activities. i come from the republic of croatia, one of the most maritime countries in the european union and europe in general. it is of vital importance for us that the agency for fisheries control works properly, because unfortunately, in recent years we have witnessed the illegal usurpation of croatian territorial waters. it is a common occurrence that italian vessels enter croatian territorial waters and fish there, disturbing the natural balance and causing immeasurable material damage to the republic of croatia. the once fish-rich eastern adriatic is now running out of fish. i therefore once again appeal to the european institutions to ensure that the european fisheries control agency is adequately resourced to enable it to carry out the task entrusted to it.
written. - the european food safety authority is an independent body with broad powers enabling it to monitor all stages of food production - from primary production, via animal feed safety, to the supply to the consumer. it also cooperates directly with the public, informing them of the issues it deals with. it is important to note that the agency may also initiate a risk assessment on its own initiative in relation to the current state of food safety and thus warn of possible hazards at the earliest stage. the agency also provides scientific advice on genetically modified food (gmos) and their impact on food safety. i agree with the european parliament in granting the executive director of the european food safety authority discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2012. the final budget for the financial year 2012 amounts to eur 78 279 000, representing an increase of 1,25% compared to the previous year.
the european food safety authority has broad powers to monitor all stages of food production, from primary production, via the safety of feed, to the supply of the consumer. technological advances open up the possibility of ever more sophisticated fraud that can seriously threaten human health and upset the balance of nature. the scientific findings of the agency are therefore of crucial importance, as only they can dismantle in time the lobbies in the food industry that seek only to maximise profits, without caring for the quality and correctness of the products placed on the market. the agency's staff is 70% employed in the scientific research sector, which means that the agency has recognised the importance of investing in scientific achievements in financial and human capacities in a timely manner. the budget of the european food safety authority increased by 1,25% in 2012 compared to 2011, with the union contributing 100% of that budget. given the complexity of the food industry controls, the agency's budget is expected to continue to grow in the coming years. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the amount of the aid granted to the beneficiary. it is also commendable that the agency has taken corrective action to address the deficiencies noted in the 2011 comments.
written. - the european institute for gender equality is a union agency that supports the european union and its member states in promoting gender equality and combating gender discrimination. raising awareness of gender equality issues is an important job, and that is why i am pleased that the court of auditors has confirmed the credibility, legality and regularity of the financial statements. on transparency and conflict of interest, i agree with the call for the cvs and declarations of financial interests of the management board, the executive director and senior management to be made public, and on results, i am pleased that in 2012 the institute completed the introduction of the gender equality index and developed an online database of sources of education on gender issues.
written. - the european institute for gender equality has a key role to play in promoting equality between women and men as one of the fundamental heritages of civilisation. despite scientific and technological advances, which have also led to advances in human rights, we are witnessing the fact that gender equality has not yet been achieved. data indicate that women are underrepresented in managerial positions and are paid less than men for the same work. the european union, as one of the pillars of democracy and tolerance in western civilization, is not exempt from these problems either. the union should therefore ensure adequate resources for the institute in order to achieve full equality in the years ahead. the institute's 2012 financial statements show an increase of 2,81% in its budget compared to 2011, with the union fully financing that budget. the court of auditors' findings assess the 2012 reports as accurate and legal. the institute has also encouraged a number of short- and long-term measures to improve budget planning and implementation in response to the 2011 discharge comments. however, it is important to highlight the irregularity related to the recruitment process. in particular, there is no evidence that the questions for the written examinations and interviews were prepared before the application was considered. the institute shall be called upon to remedy the deficiency in question.
written. - the purpose of occupational pension insurance is to provide additional protection against the risks characteristic of certain occupations and to provide additional protection for certain groups of selfemployed workers. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 264 concerning the conditions for the participation of undertakings in the award of contracts. the supervision of these pensions is of the utmost importance and i am therefore pleased that the court of auditors has not found significant irregularities in the work of the european supervisory authority and i welcome the fact that the european insurance and occupational pensions authority has adopted measures and rules on the management of conflicts of interest for the staff of the agency and the contracting parties, and in particular the members of the supervisory and management committees.
written. - most eu member states are experiencing negative demographic trends resulting in negative natural growth and population ageing. such adverse trends have serious macroeconomic implications as the number of retired people is steadily approaching the number of the working population. in the republic of croatia, the ratio is almost 1:1, which practically means that one worker works to pay the pension for one pensioner. in the context of the above problems, the european insurance and occupational pensions authority has an increasingly important role to play in protecting the rights of pensioners. the eiopa shall also contribute to the stability of the financial system of the eu and the orderly functioning of financial markets. the authority's 2012 budget increased by 46,76% compared to 2011, but this should not be surprising or worrying, given that eiopa was established in 2011. the commission notes that the 2012 annual accounts of the bank are presented in the official journal of the european union. the commission should be able to assess the impact of the measures on the financial position of the union institutions and bodies, in particular on the financial position of the union institutions and bodies, and on the financial position of the union institutions and bodies. further efforts are needed to increase the rate of implementation of payment appropriations, which is only 67,21% for 2012.
written. - road noise affects the quality of life of eu citizens, especially in urban areas. the commission should also be able to take into account the impact of the use of public transport on the environment and the environment in general. this regulation establishes a framework that provides the initiative to innovate in accordance with the needs of society, while in no way restricting the economic freedom that is important for industry. i supported the recommendations of the rapporteur which suggested improvements to the commission's proposal through the introduction of a qualification road system which would enable member states and their national and local authorities to monitor and assess road surface quality more effectively with a view to reducing noise.
the european medicines agency has a monitoring role and is responsible for the scientific evaluation of medicines developed by european and global pharmaceutical companies and sold in the european union. without the agency's authorization, companies are not allowed to enter the european market. in order to ensure the safety and health of union citizens, it is important that the agency has the most transparent funding and recruitment. as regards irregularities in the agency's procurement processes, i hope that they will be resolved and that the agency will in future fully respect the principle of transparency. i would welcome the initiative of the agency to hold public workshops on conflicts of interest and i suggest similar initiatives to other agencies to define the balance between impartiality and expertise of the agency staff.
written. - i accept the report for this year and note that, according to the annual activity report and the court of auditors' audit findings, the level and nature of the transfers of funds in 2012 remained within the financial rules. the court of auditors' statements have provided assurance that the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2012 are positive and that the transactions are regular. i note with concern that the agency applies different criteria for recognising fee revenue and related expenditure and that the fee revenue for the notification is recognised evenly over a certain period of time. the agency is working closely with various patient, healthcare and consumer organisations to take their views into account. the commission should also be able to request the publication of the financial information of each patient, consumer and healthcare organisation with which it cooperates, and to carry out a conflict of interest check in relation to those organisations, in order to ensure greater transparency.
written. - the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction is an information agency that collects and processes reliable, objective and comparable data on the phenomenon of drugs and drug addiction in europe. it is the european union's central information point on drugs. to this end, the centre cooperates with non-eu countries as well as with international organisations dealing with the field, such as europol, interpol, the un drug control programme (undcp), the world health organisation (who) and the world customs organisation (wco). the main objective of the centre is to improve the comparability of drug data at european level and to develop methods and tools to achieve this. i support the discharge by the european parliament of the director of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction for the implementation of the centre's budget for the financial year 2012. the final budget for the financial year 2012. the amount of assigned revenue in accordance with article 21 (3) of the financial regulation is estimated at eur 100000.
written. - i fully support the work of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction and the 2012 discharge decision. good management and proper allocation of resources have led to a high budget implementation rate. the commission notes that the 2012 report does not contain any transaction or other audit findings that would have resulted in complaints in the procurement procedures. i note the cost of not using the premises and that no solution has been found for selling or leasing them, although the centre is actively seeking an appropriate solution. i take note that the centre has continued to streamline and reduce maintenance costs by reviewing the safety settings and reducing energy consumption. the commission should also work towards greater data transparency as soon as possible. a treasury management policy focused on mitigating and sharing financial risks is to be commended.
written. - the agency is the bailiff of maritime safety in europe, especially after its powers were extended following the adoption of the new basic regulation on it in february 2013. it is therefore necessary to provide the agency with the financial, material and human resources to enable it to carry out its tasks successfully. it can be seen that the budgetary control efforts during the financial year 2012 resulted in a high implementation rate as well as an execution rate of the appropriations for payments. the agency has adhered to the principles and has delivered on time. the transfers of funds remained within the limits of the financial statements. the agency has adopted a policy on the avoidance of conflicts of interest in safety assessment and oversight activities and a policy on conflicts of interest for members of the management board in november 2013. according to the report, there are no irregularities in the procurement and recruitment process.
written. - the security of personal data of citizens and institutions of the european union is particularly important in the age of widespread internet use and it is therefore of the utmost importance for the development of democracy and freedom of speech that we do as much as possible to ensure the security of networks and data of citizens and institutions when using their personal data. i am therefore pleased that the court's annual audit found no significant issues and i hope that this agency will continue its important work to safeguard network and data security.
written. - the main task of the european railway agency is to harmonise technical and operating rules between the member states of the union and to coordinate the operation of all national railways within the european union with a view to the interoperability of the trans-european rail network. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the establishment of a european railway agency. i agree that the allocation of resources to the agency will need to be reviewed as the competence of the agency is currently under review for the fourth railway package, in order to allow the agency to continue its activities as effectively as possible.
written. - the european securities and markets authority is an independent eu body and part of the european system of financial supervisors. that body aims to contribute to the stability of the financial system of the union by ensuring the integrity, transparency, efficiency and orderly functioning of financial markets and by enhancing investor protection. the european parliament has decided to grant the executive director of the european securities and capital markets authority discharge in respect of the implementation of the authority's budget for the financial year 2012, and i support that decision. the total union contribution to the authority's budget for the financial year 2012 was eur 6 408 000, representing a decrease of 5,54% compared to 2011. i agree with my colleague sarvam that the authority's role in promoting the stability and security of financial markets and the stability of the financial system and in enabling safe operations in the european securities market is crucial to achieving economic recovery and creating sustainable jobs and growth in europe.
written. - having regard to the opinion of the court of auditors that esma's annual financial statements in all material respects present an objective view of esma's financial position for 2012 and that the annual financial statements for 2012 are legal and regular in all material respects, i am voting in favour of the proposal to close the accounts of the european securities and capital markets authority for the financial year 2012. the role of esma in promoting the stability and security of financial markets and the financial system is crucial for achieving economic recovery and creating sustainable jobs and growth in europe, but also requires the adoption of corrective measures in the planning and implementation of the budget and greater transparency in the recruitment process.
the european training foundation is an agency of the european union that helps transition and developing countries to unlock the potential of their human capital through the reform of education, training and labour market systems in the context of the eu's external relations policy. i support the decision of the european parliament to discharge the director of the european training foundation in respect of the implementation of the foundation's budget for the financial year 2012. the foundation's budget for the financial year 2012 was eur 20 144 530, an increase of 1,48% compared to 2011. i agree with the rapporteur, mr sarvam, who believes that the foundation's contribution to the promotion of human capital development in partner countries underlines its importance. the foundation's activities also highlight important issues such as youth employment and a renewed focus on vocational education and training, the skills dimension of smes and migration processes.
written. - having regard to the opinion of the court of auditors that the underlying transactions of the foundation's annual accounts for the financial year 2012 are legal and regular and that its financial position as at 31 december 2012 is clearly presented, i support the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european training foundation for the financial year 2012. the total level of committed appropriations was 99,9%, indicating that the commitments were implemented in a timely manner, while the level and nature of the transfers of funds during 2012 remained within the limits of the financial rules. the foundation's role is important as it contributes to the development of human capital in partner countries and puts emphasis on important issues such as youth employment, vocational education and training and the skills dimension of smes. in order to continue to function effectively, i believe that the foundation should do more to enhance transparency and prevent conflicts of interest.
written. - i support the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european foundation for safety and health at work, whose main objective is to make european union workplaces safer and more productive by sharing knowledge, good practices and information and investigating emerging risks through the european risk observatory. the foundation's budget for the financial year 2012 was eur 15 260 512, representing an increase of 6,95% compared to 2011. i am particularly pleased with the court of auditors' assessment that the foundation's financial statements are reliable, lawful and regular, and i support the budgeting model to be launched this year, based on activity-based budgeting, to further improve the overall internal planning of the foundation and the supervision of its annual management plan. the budgetary control efforts during the financial year 2012 resulted in a implementation rate of 94,64% and a payment appropriations execution rate of 74,43%. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the amount of the aid granted to the beneficiary in the period from 1 january 2013 to 31 december 2014. the foundation has a reputation for good budget planning, and i therefore welcome this report and the foundation's continued contribution to promoting high standards of safety and health at work.
the european agency for safety and health at work operates in four main areas: surveillance, the dissemination of good occupational safety practice, research on occupational safety and health, and the agency's systems and programmes. the aim of the agency is to make european workplaces safer, healthier and more productive. the agency also collects and analyses information to help improve the state of occupational safety and health in europe and cooperates with a number of organisations. i agree with the decision of the european parliament to discharge the director of the european agency for safety and health at work in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2012. the budget for the financial year 2012 was eur 15 260 512, representing an increase of 6,95% compared to the previous year. i welcome the agency's continued contribution to promoting high standards of occupational safety and health in the union. i also welcome the progress made by the agency compared to 2011 in relation to the corrective actions taken in response to the comments, two of which are completed and two are in progress.
written. - having regard to the statement by the court of auditors that it has obtained reasonable assurance that the annual accounts of the agency for the financial year 2012 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular, i support the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european agency for safety and health at work for the financial year 2012, the agency has demonstrated a capacity for sound budgetary planning, as evidenced by the annual report and the court of auditors' finding that the level and nature of the carry-overs during 2012 remained within the limits of the financial rules. the agency has an important role to play in promoting high standards of safety and health at work and i hope it will continue to have successful projects and campaigns such as the healthy workplaces campaign which was the largest occupational safety campaign in the world and which has distributed over 4 million publicity materials in 22 languages. in order to continue to function effectively, i believe that the agency should do more to enhance transparency and prevent conflicts of interest.
written. - euratom as a mechanism for the development of nuclear energy through a system of redistribution and sale of surplus energy and as a mechanism for financing nuclear projects within the european union is of great importance for the future of energy and the sustainable development of the union. as the agency is directly financed by the european commission which certifies all its expenditure and as the agency itself does not have its own budget, i share the concerns of the court of auditors that this could be in conflict with the agency's statute and i hope that this problem will be resolved and that the commission will give an opinion on this issue, as article 6 of the agency's statute provides that it is financially independent. i hope that the development and exploration of this extremely important energy source will progress and help europe in its goal of sustainable energy growth.
written. - having regard to the statement by the court of auditors that it can reasonably be expected to give a guarantee that the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2012 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular, i support the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the euratom supply agency for the financial year 2012. the case of the agency not receiving its own budget and the commission directly financing and validating all the agency's expenditure between 2008 and 2011 needs to be reviewed, which, according to the court of auditors, is contrary to the agency's statute and the commission is invited to comment on this issue.
in writing. - parliament welcomes the activities of the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions in 2012, such as the launch of new projects linked to priority themes such as the social impact of the crisis, recovery and job creation, demographic change and the sustainability of the public sector. appreciating the contribution of the foundation to the promotion of knowledge about living and working conditions in the union at a time when these conditions continue to deteriorate in some member states, approves the closure of the foundation's accounts for the financial year 2012, having found the legality and regularity of the annual accounts and the underlying transactions.
written. - i support the proposal for a discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european agency for the improvement of living and working conditions for the financial year 2012. the agency has focused its work on three key areas of expertise, with a focus on the themes of work organisation, working time, work-life balance, employment promotion and employer-employee relations. the agency has also established the european monitoring centre for change (emcc) to analyse and forecast changes in the industrial and business sectors, thereby contributing to the promotion of social and economic development. the final budget of the agency for the financial year 2012 was eur 21,43 million, representing an increase of 4,03% compared to 2011, and the court of auditors considered that the budgetary appropriations had been used correctly and transparently. i particularly welcome the agency's contribution to promoting knowledge about living and working conditions in the european union at a time when these conditions continue to deteriorate in some member states, and its rapid response to the changes in policy priorities caused by the economic crisis. the agency has launched new projects related to priority themes related to the social consequences of the crisis, recovery and job creation, demographic change and a sustainable public sector.
written. - the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions started its work in 1975 and was one of the first bodies of the union to work on the implementation of specific policies of the european union. it is important to recognise its long history and its important role in the development of a europe of prosperity, a europe linked not only by trade and monetary ties but also by solidarity and the principles of achieving a life of dignity for all citizens of the union. i would commend the transparency of the foundation in the form of the monitoring and reporting system for conflicts of interest of the members of the management board, and in the form of the proposed strategy for the detection and management of conflicts. i support the report and wish the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions every success in its efforts.
written. - having obtained the court of auditors' reasonable assurance that the foundation's financial statements for the financial year 2012 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular, i support the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions for the financial year 2012. the foundation has demonstrated a capacity for sound budgetary planning, as evidenced by the annual report and the court of auditors' finding that the level and nature of the transfers of funds during 2012 remained within the limits of the financial rules. the foundation's contribution to the promotion of knowledge in living and working conditions in the union and to working conditions research, which contains relevant findings on trends in job quality, sustainable work and the ageing of the workforce, is of great importance. in order to continue to function effectively, i believe that the foundation should do more to enhance transparency and prevent conflicts of interest.
written. - eurojust is one of the european agencies and aims to encourage and improve the coordination of investigations and prosecutions between the competent authorities in the member states and to improve cooperation between those authorities. eurojust's competence covers the same types of crime and offences for which europol is competent, namely terrorism, drug trafficking, trafficking in human beings, money laundering and organised crime in general. i agree with the decision of the european parliament to discharge the executive director of eurojust in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2012. the final budget of eurojust for the financial year in question amounts to eur 33 322 996, representing an increase of 6,27% compared to the previous year. the college shall be composed of 27 national members, one of whom shall be appointed by each member state of the union. the commission has also received a letter from the croatian authorities, which states that the national member has been appointed on the basis of the decision of the croatian parliament. however, as early as 2006, an agreement was signed between croatia and eurojust with the aim of formalising and strengthening mutual cooperation in order to combat together more effectively serious forms of international, cross-border and organised crime.
written. - i support the discharge for the implementation of the budget of eurojust for the financial year 2012. the purpose of this agency is to enable the effective detection and prosecution of perpetrators of criminal elements of organised crime that cross national borders in the territory of all member states. the main objectives of eurojust are to encourage and improve cooperation between member states' authorities in the field of investigation and prosecution, to improve cooperation between member states' authorities in the field of mutual legal assistance and the enforcement of extradition requests, and to promote effective investigations and prosecutions. eurojust is doing well, but i think there is room for improvement and i therefore welcome the view of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs that in general eurojust should pay more attention to ensuring sound financial management, i.e. the economic, efficient and effective use of the appropriations in the fulfilment of its obligations. i also welcome the court of auditors' remark that the recruitment process needs to be improved, because i think we need to support and expect the highest quality standards, especially in the area of recruitment.
written. - europol, that is the european police office, was established by the europol convention and is based in the hague. the purpose of that body is to coordinate police cooperation between member states in relation to the prevention of and the fight against international organised crime including trafficking in human beings, illegal immigrant networks, drug trafficking, etc. i support the decision of the european parliament to grant the director of europol discharge in respect of the implementation of the office's budget for the financial year 2012. the final budget for that year amounts to eur 84 152 000, a decrease of 0,73% compared to the previous year. the european parliament hereby authorises the closure of the european police office's accounts for the year in question. at that time, although not an eu member, croatia was the only country in the region with a strategic and operational agreement with europol on data exchange thanks to the operational and strategic cooperation agreement, signed in january 2006.
written. - the 2012 annual financial reports show that europol is operating and being managed in a transparent manner and i believe that the 2012 resolution should be supported. europol has a significant role to play for all citizens of the european union, as it makes a major contribution to the security and protection of citizens. by bringing together european intelligence activities such as police, customs, immigration services, etc., a coordinated system has been created to ensure a smooth fight against organised international crime, in particular in the area of drug trafficking, immigration networks, smuggling of stolen vehicles, trafficking in human beings, including child pornography, counterfeiting of money and other means of payment, smuggling of radioactive and other nuclear substances, terrorism. i would point out that the republic of croatia is also facing the problems of international organised crime and is making every effort to solve this problem as effectively as possible. in addition, as the last eu member state to join, croatia is a border between the eu and eastern countries and preventive efforts are needed to secure and protect all eu member states from international organised crime.
the european union agency for fundamental rights helps the institutions and member states of the european union to understand and address the challenges that prevent the full realisation of fundamental rights in practice, despite the eu's long tradition of promoting fundamental rights. the agency shall provide the institutions and member states of the european union with independent and evidence-based advice on fundamental rights. its objective is to contribute to ensuring full respect for fundamental rights throughout the european union. i support the discharge given by the european parliament to the director of the european union agency for fundamental rights in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2012. the budget for the financial year 2012 was eur 20 376 000, representing an increase of 0,97% compared to 2011. i strongly support fundamental rights that set minimum standards to ensure that individuals are treated with dignity. for this reason, i commend the work of the agency established as an independent body to support these efforts.
written. - i support the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european union agency for fundamental rights (fra) for the financial year 2012. the member states of the european union have a long tradition of promoting fundamental rights and the european union itself is built on these values, however, many challenges prevent the full realisation of fundamental rights in practice. by collecting and analysing data in the european union, the agency helps the institutions and member states of the european union to understand and address these challenges and plays an important role in helping to make fundamental human rights a reality for all who live in the eu. i welcome the report that is known, including the respect of the one-year principle, the timely execution of the budget and good budget planning. i would like to pay particular tribute to the european union agency for fundamental rights and its example of good practice in procurement and recruitment procedures.
written. - i welcome the work of frontex and its important role in securing the eu's borders. it is interesting to recall that frontex was the first agency to decide in 2005 to set up its headquarters in one of the new member states that had joined the european union only a year earlier, namely in the polish city of warsaw. as a representative from the newest member country, i consider this move a very nice gesture in terms of european integration and i hope that a similar policy will be used in the case of the republic of croatia and that it too will become the future home of many european agencies. as regards the audit, i agree with the report and would particularly highlight the part where the agency is called upon to make the cvs of the members of the management board public as soon as possible in a spirit of transparency in order to ensure against potential conflicts of interest, especially given the strategically important role of frontex in the security of the union, and i wish frontex much success in its further work.
- the european border management agency shall enhance border security by ensuring coordination of the action of the member states in the implementation of community measures relating to the management of the external borders. the agency has a multifaceted role in protecting and securing the daily lives of the citizens of the european union. the agency shall, in particular, coordinate the operational cooperation of member states in the management of the external borders, assist member states in the training of national border guards, including the introduction of common training standards, carry out risk analysis, monitor investigations relevant for the control and surveillance of the external borders, assist member states in circumstances requiring increased technical and operational assistance at the external borders and provide support to member states in organising joint return operations. as the annual financial report is in line with the budget of the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders, i support the 2012 discharge. the commission has also received comments from the three sampled exporting producers, which have submitted comments on the measures taken by the commission in the context of the review of the anti-dumping measures applicable to imports of certain aluminium wheels originating in the prc. this agency has a significant role to play in the security of all union citizens. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 21 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules on the application of this regulation.
written. - i welcome the work and importance of this agency in the management and control of the use of funds in the satellite navigation programmes, and in particular the galileo programme. as we know, gps as a navigation system that we use today in cars and smartphones was developed by the united states department of defense, and galileo is a project under development by the european union that is trying to create a european alternative to this system, which i consider particularly important as a step forward in positioning the union as a global player in the development of navigation and related technologies. that's why it's important to ensure that these programs work in the public interest, which gnss has been doing successfully since 2004, as the figures show - a budget implementation rate of 100%. the commission notes that the agency's budgetary resources are not used to finance the budgetary needs of the member states. finally, i support the report and hope that the agency will have much success in the future.
written. - the agency has a unique opportunity to ensure that europe benefits from the full potential of egnos and galileo, which fulfil all the prerequisites to become the foundation of the global radio navigation and positioning system and contribute in a unique way to job creation and economic growth. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of personal data. as the court of auditors found no major irregularities in the work, i believe that the agency should continue to work in this direction. it is noteworthy that the budget monitoring efforts during the financial year 2012 have delivered positive results, i.e. a budget implementation rate of 100%, which is a significant progress that is an indicator of the progress of the work and management of the agency. i hope that the european global navigation satellite system (gnss) agency will make further efforts to follow up the recommendations of the internal audit on the development of a risk reduction action plan. i also hope that the agency will contribute to informing the citizens of the union by communicating the results and effects of its work to them in a manner accessible to citizens.
the artemis joint undertaking was established at a time when embedded computing was experiencing a renaissance due to the availability of technologies and services that enabled the development of smartphones. the aim of the company was to design and strategise industrial sectors related to the emerging embedded computing technology and to enable the development of new markets and services. i consider that new technologies play a very important role in reindustrialising and strengthening the european union as a global player, and i welcome the work of artemis in 2012 and agree with the report that the budgetary rate of implementation is relatively low for such an important agency and i welcome the call for the implementation of concrete measures to achieve budgetary balance and i hope that it will bear fruit, as i am convinced that this agency plays an important role in strengthening european technological competitiveness on the world market.
written. - the artemis joint undertaking was established in 2007 with the aim of defining and implementing a 'research plan' for the development of key technologies for the integration of computer systems across different application areas, which would result in enhancing european competitiveness and sustainability, and allowing the emergence of new markets and societal applications. i consider that the 2012 decision provides for clear steps towards the main objective of the artemis joint undertaking and therefore i support this decision and look forward to its further improvement. i would also stress that the court of auditors has received a conditional opinion on the legality and regularity of transactions for the second year in a row and that continuous work and progress is needed in this regard in order to reduce these restrictions and to achieve an appropriate level of transparency. in the field of transparency, it is necessary to develop and adopt a comprehensive policy on the prevention and management of conflicts of interest. i also welcome the progress made so far, but i believe that further work is needed, in particular with regard to financial audit of borrowing costs and internal control standards.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of foodstuffs for sale to the ultimate consumer. this programme is particularly important in the context of the single european sky and the targets of 50% and 80% emission reductions by 2020. given the important environmental objectives pursued by the programme, i am pleased with the court of auditors' conclusion that the programme's management and financial procedures have improved and i hope that this trend will continue and that the reduction of harmful emissions will be in line with the target set.
written. - i welcome this discharge because the annual audit report shows that there has been significant progress compared to 2011 in terms of the legality and regularity of transactions, thus enabling effective financial management. progress has also been made in the management of the programme and in the administration, financial and accounting procedures. while this is a positive outcome, further progress is needed in this regard as there are still constraints that need to be removed to ensure smooth and transparent work. i believe that we need to work on optimising the time between the call for proposals and the signing of the agreement, which will ultimately result in simplicity and synchronisation of the whole process, thus enabling the efficiency of the system. in addition to time optimisation, i believe that there is a need to produce specific capacity reports of the joint undertakings, together with their private partners, to ensure added value and efficient execution of union research, technological development and demonstration programmes.
written. - research and development in nanoelectronics is important for the development and competitiveness of the european industry from semiconductors to nanotubes, with results that have a visible impact on computer performance, increased speed and quality of signal transmission and perhaps even more efficient energy production, if nanoelectronics are properly exploited in the field of solar cells. in view of all this, the work of the eniac joint undertaking on nanoelectronics is important for the european union, but also for the development of science and technology and society in general, and good governance and transparent funding are of paramount importance. i am therefore concerned about some of the negative notes of the court of auditors and agree with the report that it would be useful for eniac to submit a report to parliament clarifying these negative aspects, together with the court of auditors' assessment. however, i hope that the european union will continue to pursue research and development and that nanoelectronics will be recognised by all european institutions as a key technology of the future.
the european joint undertaking for the implementation of the nanoelectronics joint technology initiative (eniac joint undertaking) brings together all member states and associated countries. the main objective of the joint undertaking is to define and implement a 'research agenda' to develop key competences for nanoelectronics in different application areas in order to increase european competitiveness and sustainability and to enable the emergence of new markets and societal applications. as the annual financial reports indicate a positive and transparent management and governance of eniac's financial framework, reflected in many research and industrial projects that have contributed to market competitiveness, i support this 2012 discharge. i would like to emphasise that the eniac joint undertaking contributes to the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, thereby directly supporting the economic strategy of the european union. i also welcome the relationship of public-private partnership which is of multiple benefits, especially in bringing the research, i.e. scientific, part closer to the industrial, manufacturing and vice versa. this will ensure synchronous progress in all aspects, while giving priority to innovation and technical progress. i look forward to the fruitful and continuous work of the eniac joint undertaking and to the achievement of the most concrete and effective communication with all parties.
written. - the idea behind the fuel cell and hydrogen joint venture is to use a public-private partnership to develop hydrogen and fuel cell energy technologies to become commercially viable. hydrogen-based fuels are currently used to power non-commercial vehicles such as spacecraft, but mass production could also enable them to be used for commercial passenger transport. the commission will continue to support the implementation of the joint undertaking's activities in the field of energy efficiency and renewable energy. i am therefore pleased that the court of auditors gave a positive opinion on the legality and regularity of their activities in 2012.
in writing. - we voted in favour of this discharge, while retaining certain reservations and recommendations to the innovative medicines initiative joint undertaking. in detail, we wanted to emphasise a better level of transparency, public access to the cvs of the members of the board of directors and the potential to be able to proceed on the dual track of reducing costs and implementing the effective use of resources.
written. - i have supported the report on the discharge for the implementation of the joint undertaking's budget for the implementation of the joint technology initiative for innovative medicines for the financial year 2012. the annual financial statements of the joint undertaking are, in the opinion of the court of auditors, faithful in all material respects to its financial position as at 31 december 2012. the commission notes that the financial statements of the sampled companies were prepared in accordance with the principles set out in the commission's guidelines on state aid for rescuing and restructuring firms in difficulty (oj c 312, 20.12.2013, p. 1). i would welcome the fact that some joint initiatives have been particularly successful in involving smes in their projects and that almost 21% of the funds from joint technology initiatives went to smes.
written. - the innovative medicines initiative is the largest public-private initiative in the european union, and aims to accelerate the development of the pharmaceutical industry and better and safer medicines by building a network of experts from academia and industry and encouraging their cooperation. this is an important goal in terms of public health and citizen safety, but also in terms of developing technologies that potentially save lives. i support the court of auditors in advocating stronger operational and administrative procedures and documentation of activities to reduce the risk of accounting inconsistencies, as effective and transparent accounting is one of the financial underpinnings for the implementation of the important objectives of this initiative.
written. - iter, which means 'way' in latin, is a joint venture established for international cooperation on one of the world's largest fusion energy projects, which has the potential to provide a sustainable solution not only to european but also to global energy needs. in addition to the european union, russia, japan, china, india, south korea, and the united states are involved in the project, but the european union is the main contributor, financing almost half of the total budget. for this reason, it is important to identify any possibility of increasing efficiency and savings through better budgetary and financial management. it is therefore important to continue to work on internal control systems and i am pleased that the court of auditors' report noted that significant progress was made in this area during 2012. i believe that the work of iter is crucial to the realization of the fusion technologies of the future.
written. - i welcome this discharge as it indicates significant progress on the management and allocation of the iter joint undertaking and the development of fusion energy. i am pleased with the transparency of the work of the 'joint undertaking', which has been confirmed by the court of auditors, on the basis of the annual reports for the financial year 2012, as reliable and the main transactions as regular and legal. it is important to note that almost half of the available financial resources are invested in large, more complex contracts that require long negotiation times, and i hope that such negotiations will yield positive results in terms of the invested. i also note that further efforts are needed in terms of systematic verification, early payment, acceptance of technical reports and audit certificates of financial statements. i also hope for comprehensive progress on the overall management and control system for the grants, as well as the early implementation of the mitigation measures for the corporate risk management system. the commission will continue to support the development of the european union's nuclear safety and security policy, in particular through the european union's strategy for nuclear safety and security (snds) and the european union's strategy for nuclear safety and security (esnds).
the sesar project aims to improve air traffic management through the modernisation of dependent systems and infrastructure in order to achieve a high level of safety and air traffic flow by 2020. in 2012, the project was still in the development phase, and from this year it has entered its final phase - the construction phase of the system itself. the goals of this system are to reduce carbon dioxide emissions to preserve the environment, to increase fuel efficiency, and to reduce average flight times. in order to achieve these objectives, it is important to allocate funds wisely and rationally, and i therefore support the court's proposals to improve the documentation of controls on the monitoring of project results and the follow-up of recommendations of joint technical audits with the clean sky joint undertaking and the coordination between these two bodies. these steps will help the sesar project to be even better at achieving its worthy goals of a common european sky.
the sesar joint undertaking is a partnership aiming at the next generation of air traffic management systems. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the conditions for the participation of third countries in the union's programmes in the field of civil protection. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on aviation security and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on civil aviation security. i support the report because this research will enable the development of technology that will make airspace more efficient, cleaner and safer. if this situation does not change, we will face a major chaos that will make impossible more than 2 million landings and takeoffs. the commission notes that the air carrier ryanair has not provided any evidence that the air carrier ryanair has engaged in an illegal activity. airplanes consume more fuel, increase their emissions, pay higher fares, and suffer longer delays. this research is of great importance for the establishment of the single european sky, which is a flagship project in creating a single european airspace that will triple capacity and halve traffic costs.
written. - according to commission estimates, tax fraud, tax evasion, tax avoidance and aggressive tax planning cause a loss of potential government revenues estimated at €1 trillion each year in the eu, or an average annual cost of approximately €2 000 for every european citizen. fraud, tax evasion and corruption undermine citizens' trust in the union, and therefore protecting their financial interests and ensuring the proper use of their money is one of the key elements of eu policy-making. in 2012, 1 231 fraudulent irregularities were reported, with a financial impact of eur 392 million. this represents a slight decrease compared to 2011. the fraud is most common in the areas of cohesion policy and agriculture, especially rural development and fisheries, which remain the two most critical sectors. the number of non-pernicious irregularities reported to the commission increased by around 6% compared to 2011, with a related financial impact of around eur 2 900 000 000, more than double the figure for 2011. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the establishment of a european data protection supervisor.
written. - different interpretations of the application of legal frameworks and approaches to fraud detection make it very difficult to identify statistical data for fraud prevention, in criminal proceedings and their outcomes that should be used as a basis for future policy making. the commission has also received information from the member states on the implementation of the anti-fraud measures. the other half was discovered through the administrative control systems provided for in the regulations governing the sectors concerned. these data show the importance of external services in the fight against fraud and the need to cooperate with management and audit authorities. the adoption of common rules on fraud is important because of the different sanctions that apply in different countries. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. reducing the number of convictions and potential offenders is possible with strict and immediate enforcement of the law.
written. - the protection of the union's financial interests is a key element in growing and strengthening citizens' confidence and ensuring the proper use of their money. faced with shocking data from the commission estimating that tax fraud, tax evasion, tax avoidance and aggressive tax planning cost the eu an average of around eur 2 000 per citizen each year, i support the report and call for increased cooperation between the member states and the commission and the european anti-fraud office (olaf). each year, almost one fifth of all potential vat revenues across the eu remain unpaid, and calculations show that in 2011 some eur 193 billion of value added tax (equivalent to 1,5% of gdp) was not paid, at least in part due to vat fraud and tax evasion. it is quite clear that vat fraud accounts for a fairly large percentage of the eu's losses, and it underlines the importance of introducing new strategies and making more effective use of existing eu structures to strengthen the fight against vat fraud. for this reason, i welcome the progress made where it exists and support the view that member states should cooperate more to increase legal action in cases of fraud.
written. - the innovative medicines initiative, launched in 2007 for a period of 10 years, aims to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the drug development process. the pharmaceutical sector, more broadly, is aiming to produce innovative medicines more efficiently and safely. i believe that the 2012 discharge is a step in the right direction and i support it for that reason. the globalization and complexity of the financial system, as well as advances in technology, have made possible ever more subtle and insidious financial fraud. tax evasion and tax fraud are only part of the spectrum of anomalies in the financial system that cause a loss of potential government revenues. the fact is that most member countries have been in an economic crisis in recent years that has created an army of unemployed, especially young and educated workers. logically, the focus of national policies is on boosting economic growth, but it would be a mistake to neglect the fight against financial fraud, because a well-regulated financial system is a prerequisite for creating a new investment cycle that will generate new jobs. i therefore welcome the adoption of the resolution calling for the harmonisation of the criminal law provisions of the member states for offences against the eu budget. the commission's action plan to strengthen the fight against tax fraud and evasion, which advocates a strategy of enhanced and multidimensional cooperation between member states, as well as between member states and the commission, is in line with this.
written. - while i am a strong advocate of enhanced cooperation between the judicial authorities of the member states, especially in the enforcement of the european arrest and investigation warrant, i believe that the initiative in initiating judicial proceedings must remain with the member states, or national prosecutors. instead of setting up another body at union level, i believe that the european institutions should provide all possible support in strengthening the efficiency of national judicial authorities and their high-quality networking. the initiation of a two-tiered judicial procedure is also very risky because it will easily create confusion and thus harm the efficiency of the whole system. the european public prosecutor's office is a public body, which is not a public authority, but a public body, which is a public authority. although many parts of the report are written in a very high quality and can have my support, i cannot support the request to establish a european public prosecutor's office and therefore i abstained.
written. - iran is a country with great potential for developing deeper relations with the european union, and this was the subject discussed by eu high commissioner for foreign affairs catherine ashton during her recent visit to iran. human rights are an area that needs special attention. a recent united nations report points to numerous human rights violations, especially those involving religious minorities. christians are especially discriminated against in this regard, and they are regularly arrested for their faith and are considered a threat to national security. i agree with the high commissioner that there is a need to establish a sustainable dialogue with iran and to encourage dialogue on a wide range of issues, in particular those relating to the protection of minorities and the protection of people in general. it is important to note that the advancement of the already existing cooperation with iran is also dependent on an agreement on the nuclear programme. in particular, in november 2013, a major step towards global security and stability was taken with the conclusion of an interim agreement on iran's nuclear programme between six world powers and iran in geneva. constructive cooperation in the implementation of the agreement is needed and it is also important to observe how the situation on this issue will develop.
written. - i voted in favour of this resolution because the internal political developments in iran and the interim nuclear deal have created opportunities for reform in iran and for improving its external relations with the eu. however, the human rights situation is still marked by persistent and systematic violations of fundamental rights and i believe that there is a need for greater engagement of the eu and iran in joint action on the process of stabilising the situation in the middle east. iran as a political and regional power should use its significant influence in syria to stop the bloody civil war and should take a constructive role in international efforts to resolve the crisis. the union must help create an environment for the proper functioning of civil society organisations and make greater efforts to promote democracy and respect for human rights and the rights of national minorities.
the committee on budgets thank you, mr president, the proposal to prepare alternative fuels infrastructure is an important step in ensuring sustainable mobility across the union. it contributes to the harmonisation of an important area among member states and is therefore worth supporting. this directive will provide certainty for consumers to invest in the procurement of adapted vehicles, but also certainty for industry to invest in alternative fuels infrastructure. the ultimate objective is to ensure sustainable development, create new quality jobs and invest further in research. the investment and promotion of alternative fuels should be one of the union's priorities not only for environmental reasons such as the reduction of greenhouse gases, but also to ensure a sustainable energy supply to europe. i am therefore pleased to see the commitment of the european institutions and the member states to reach agreement in this area. the expectations set out in the report that we could have significant passenger transport by alternative fuel vehicles by 2020 are ambitious and will be credible if we implement such plans at european and national levels.
thank you, madam president, food for humans, as well as food for animals, must be safe and healthy. one way to achieve this is through a functional system of control of the entire food chain and measures to protect animal and plant health. in doing so, the european union must protect producers, especially small ones, who produce their food in a clean and safe environment in an environmentally sound way and facilitate the application of the proposed measures. consumers must have the right to be fully informed about the composition of the food they consume, which has become increasingly difficult with globalisation and the expansion of large food chains. and since nearly 70 percent of infectious diseases are shared by humans and animals, there is a need to improve the prevention and control systems to safeguard the health of humans, animals, and plants. the calculation is very simple, independent food controllers must guarantee the right of consumers to safe and healthy food. an effective control system will result in increased consumer confidence, which will also benefit food producers.
member of the commission. - madam president, i would also like to thank the rapporteur, mr gualtieri, as well as the members of the high level working group, for their constructive approach to the revision of this transparency register. this register is an example of fruitful cooperation between parliament and the commission at a political but also a technical level. our cooperation is, after all, there to benefit european citizens, but it is equally for stakeholders engaged in lobbying, as well as for the institutions of the european union themselves. since its launch in june 2011, the register has shed much light on the brussels lobbying scene, answering questions about what interests are being pursued, by whom, and how much is invested in these efforts. today the website includes 6 500 entities of various natures and sizes – consultancies, ngos, think tanks, trade associations, law firms and also self-employed lobbyists. the register continues to grow every day, in my opinion demonstrating that we are on the right track. i would like to stress in this context that there is no charge for the regions. in many countries they have a legislative role to play and are therefore not covered by the register. regions can, however, register their representative offices in brussels if they so wish. the scheme can certainly be further improved. there are gaps in the representation of certain sectors and the quality of data varies. the website could be modernised and clearer guidelines could be provided for registrants. for instance, not all eu officials are aware of the register or use it. therefore we have not yet reached all relevant external stakeholders either. these are the challenges that the joint transparency register secretariat, supported by all those committed to transparency, should address. in 2017, at the time of the next review, we will again take stock of progress. the commission will shortly issue internal guidelines on the application of the foreseen incentives for registration. finally, let me be clear that the register is not the only transparency instrument implemented by the commission. other initiatives, promoted via the transparency portal, include for instance the regulation of public access to documents, the registers of experts’ groups and comitology, and information about recipients of eu funds. we look forward to further cooperation with parliament during the implementation of the revised interinstitutional agreement.
on behalf of the s&d club. thank you, madam president, let me first of all express my full support for this report by mr gualtieri, which represents an important step forward in improving transparency and our ability as members of parliament to exercise democratic control. it is essential that the institutions maintain an open, transparent and regular dialogue with representatives of associations and civil society, and this dialogue requires the good functioning of the common register of organisations and self-employed persons involved in the eu policy-making and implementation process. i welcome the proposal to introduce a compulsory register, i.e. an entry, in relation to the conduct of lobbying activities and the proposal that the commission, in the framework of future proposals for the reform of the treaty, submit a proposal for an appropriate legal basis to allow the introduction of a compulsory register in accordance with the ordinary legislative procedure. this is necessary to prevent the dark side of lobbying and conflicts of interest by implementing a clear and transparent procedure and regulating in the clearest possible way the access of paid lobbyists to this body.
thank you, madam president. lobbying in brussels costs companies 120 million euros a year. i guess they pay that much, so it's worth it. it is therefore necessary to regulate that procedure and to ensure maximum transparency. as things stand today, we can't even be sure of the legality of lobbying, and we have no idea of the effects of lobbying. we only know that many senior officials of the european institutions are promoted to high-level positions in large corporations after their mandates. by chance? i might have. transparency and regulation are key to the functioning of banks and financial institutions, as well as to the relationship between big business and european institutions. otherwise, the institutions will vote in favour of corporations at the expense of european citizens. the compulsory register of lobbyists and lobbying and the transparency of this work in all european institutions should be supported because only then will we protect citizens from raw commercial interests.
thank you, mr president, as a representative of croatia, where the business and investment climate is seriously affected by high taxes and the unpredictability and instability of the government's fiscal policy, i fully support this report. croatian citizens witness the further collapse of the national economy on a daily basis while listening to repeated political promises of recovery and growth that should be based on an increase in public spending and public investment. this and reports like this, however, make me optimistic, because i'm sure that raising awareness of the harmful effects of high taxes, large administrations and excessive regulation at the european level will eventually affect the change of consciousness in my own country. i just hope we don't have to wait too long because croatia doesn't have time. every new political experiment in our country ends the same way - with new burdens on citizens and businesses, a flourishing bureaucracy and a few tens of thousands of unemployed. how much longer?!
mr president, at the end of this mandate, which was marked by the crisis and austerity measures, i would like to recall how the devastating recession and other disasters have hit european industry particularly hard. the needs of industry have often been neglected in recent decades in favour of the services and particularly the financial sector, although industry in the european union accounts for 75% of european exports and a third of all jobs. in addition, each industrial job creates two additional jobs in other sectors. the key elements necessary for economic growth are education, industry and transport, i.e. reindustrialisation based on high technology, higher education with adequate transport networks. in doing so, workers must not only be treated as variable costs but also as drivers of innovation, which is a winning combination of european competitiveness. the european commission, which takes office in 2014, will have the opportunity to renew the european industrial policy. the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the measures taken by the member states on the union's external financing needs.
the poor are the most vulnerable group in europe today. the global recession may not have started in europe, but european lawmakers and banks certainly contributed to its ravages through their irresponsibility. one of the first consequences of the global recession was the inability of some citizens to pay back their debts. although this could easily have been foreseen, the banks in croatia continued to issue irresponsible loans. the legislature responded by passing a bad enforcement law that turned the state into a private debt collector that completely disregarded the welfare of citizens and society as a whole. croatian families are left homeless every day by this practice and become a burden on an already overburdened social system. just as citizens take financial risks when they borrow, banks should eventually accept the consequences of their bad business decisions. only then can they be equal partners in creating a new home or starting a business, which is essential to regaining lost trust.
mr president, a large number of railway lines are being closed in croatia these days, marginalizing many croatian regions, most notably slavonia and baranja, but also međimurje, varaždin, koprivnica-križevnica, karlovac and šibensko-knin counties, and the traditional port connection between ploče and bosnia and herzegovina. the abolition directly affects regional competitiveness in employment and indirectly encourages the emigration of the population from these counties, especially the young. it has not taken into account the pupils, students and workers who travel daily to the larger cities and return to their places of work after school, work and university. we know that the union has earmarked 35.7% of its resources for regional cohesion policy for the next seven years, which makes this even more surprising. the policy of closing the railway lines to the east of croatia should be abandoned if complete isolation, further displacement and marginalisation of the population of the republic of croatia, and especially slavonia, is to be avoided. the 2007 regulation of the european council and parliament states that passenger services should be in the general interest of the community and that the financial criterion is not the only one.
mr. president, after the russian intervention in ukraine, which the west, regardless of the rhetoric, has come to terms with, there has been a paradigm shift in international relations. an economically empowered russia shows its political might. these events have their echo in bosnia and herzegovina, where foreign policy changes are taking place, because in it, that is, in its serbian part, russia plays a key role through its capital, in the other, that bosnian-croatian half, erdogan's turkey takes on an increasingly powerful political role. these processes are adversely affecting an already unsustainable, dysfunctional political system in bosnia and herzegovina in which constitutional changes are urgently needed. a resolution recently passed by this chamber calls on bosnia and herzegovina to resolve issues of its internal structure in order to allow for the equality of its three constituent peoples and to provide for an effective mechanism for the protection of minority rights stemming from the court decision in the sejdić finci case. the resolution offers a framework for a federal structure and guarantees the sovereignty of the constituent peoples and preserves the integrity of the bosnian-herzegovinian state. a good start for a change that's needed.
mr president, we are all here today because some great men in history had a vision of europe where nations cooperate and leaders talk. that vision made it possible for europe to go through an unprecedented period of peace and prosperity. this great hall we talk in is one of the pillars of that security. i call on everyone to conduct the electoral campaign in a decent and tolerant way. votes should not be gained by playing on people’s fears and traumas, because elections pass but tensions remain. with extremism on the rise, we should all remember the lessons from the history of our continent. peace is fragile and precious – we in croatia know that very well.
mr. president, the honorable commissioner lewandowski, the honorable colleague böge, the honorable colleague kalfin. i also extend my greetings to our reporter, dehaene, and wish him a good recovery. after lengthy negotiations on this multiannual financial framework, we have achieved the only realistic result in the context of the financial crisis and budgetary austerity in the member states, and we have also noted the new assertive role of the european parliament in the negotiations with the council and the commission following the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. i think it is extremely important for the future that the work of the high-level working group on the european union's own resources really translates into a real new situation in the european union where the logic of accounting, who gives more and who gets more, will be replaced by the real logic of the added value of the european budget and of the equitable own resources which are a prerequisite for the quality of this budget. i think the rules on flexibility, the uniformity of this budget for the next few years are very useful and it is important that this budget contributes to growth and employment in the european union in the coming years, and in particular to croatia as a new member with high expectations.
mr president, i would like to welcome commissioner lewandowski, and thank rapporteur dehaene, who unfortunately is not with us today, and my colleagues and mr kalfin. the negotiations on the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework have demonstrated the importance of starting the innovation related to the definition and implementation of certain european policies early enough and that even a period of two and a half years can be short for a timely start of implementation at member state level. it is important, however, that the new multiannual framework, despite the limitations imposed by it, introduces several important improvements that are also relevant for the subsequent frameworks that we will adopt. this is the flexibility in execution and the possibility to use different financial instruments to achieve a common objective. the commission has also introduced a mandatory review and audit in 2016, taking into account the fact that a new parliament and european commission will be operational from 1 july 2014. the commission should also be able to provide the necessary information to the member states and the commission on the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance.
madam vice-president, i welcome commissioner barnier and i appreciate the efforts he has made in this commission in times of crisis over the past years. i also thank rapporteur hokmark and simon for the two secondary acts that we are concluding on the banking union, which are concluding on the very key message that we have heard in the crisis that the european union is working too little too late. it is with this legal framework that we are going to prevent the crisis, we are going to affect financial stability in the european union and we want to minimise the risk and cost for european citizens, consumers and savers in the event of the insolvency of credit institutions. i consider it extremely important that, by introducing the obligation to set up funds to cover deposits, by reducing the payment deadlines and by increasing the amounts secured in certain cases, this directive has also increased the level of protection and ensured citizens' confidence in credit institutions. i congratulate all the colleagues who worked on these legislative proposals.
madam vice-president, the stability of the european financial sector is important for the future of the single market. but i believe that it should not take precedence over protecting the taxpayers whose money has been repeatedly stolen by irresponsible governments in an attempt to increase public spending to overcome the crisis. the banks were happy with this policy because it generated new debt and they supported the destructive and failed measures. delusional politicians have thus contributed to the destabilisation of the european financial sector. we are here today to protect this sector from collapse, but above all to protect our citizens and ordinary savers from new failed policies that would be funded out of their own pockets. i am therefore particularly pleased that under this proposal the funds for bank rescue will not come from the national budgets of the member states and i will therefore support it.
madam president, this is a step in the right direction. not a historic day. because it's not a historic day, is it, when we say that the bills have to be paid by those who made them? in fact, the financial and economic crisis is largely the result of the reckless and irresponsible behavior of banks, especially the expansionary credit policies that have resulted in banks printing non-existent money. the bill has come down on the taxpayers and everyone else who is not at fault. well, that should change now. at least the part that pays the bill for the underhandedness. what is at stake is that the banking system becomes or remains a state within a state. to answer to itself, and to use our money as a basis for printing its own, credit, virtual and in fact non-existent money. the next composition of this parliament will be responsible for ensuring that banks once again become a service rather than the centre of economic events in the european union and the member states.
mr. president, in times of crisis, citizens who cannot take care of themselves must be able to rely on the state. in the context of this debate, i would like to highlight two important directives on common rules for the internal market in electricity and natural gas which state that vulnerable customers are prohibited from switching off electricity and natural gas in times of crisis. i regret that croatia does not implement the aforementioned directives, although the current government adopted the energy law in line with the acquis of the european union in 2012, but unfortunately without implementing regulations. i would hereby call on the governments of the member states, with particular reference to croatia, to draw up an appropriate framework to enable these directives to be applied as early as next winter. i also believe that the funds needed to patch up over-ambitious government budgets should not be taken out of the pockets of citizens by introducing new or increasing existing charges for electricity, gas or other utilities.
mr. president, i take this proposal as positive, not just positive. i believe that today's decision by this european parliament is historic, because it contributes to the further integration of the internal market for banking services. the commission has not received any comments from interested parties. the financial and economic crisis has shown that the functioning of the internal market in this area has been compromised and that the risk of financial fragmentation has increased. interbank markets have become less liquid and cross-border banking activity is declining due to fear of expansion and lack of confidence in other national banking systems. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 264 concerning the establishment of a single resolution mechanism for the resolution of credit institutions and the resolution of credit institutions in the union. the commission and the board should also be subject to all other relevant provisions of union law, including binding regulatory and applicable technical standards.
mr president, the financial crisis that began seven years ago has shown that the european union still lacks the appropriate instruments to deal with the problem of failing credit institutions. both credit institutions themselves and individual member states should take responsibility and develop risk management programmes that should take into account the circumstances in which this crisis has arisen and the reasons for the failure. in this way we could prevent further possible crisis situations, possibly preventing another economic crisis in the future. the single supervisory authority should be established to rapidly and effectively remedy the damage to the institution or group so that the damage does not spread further, and in order to preserve the financial, economic, social stability of the country or countries in which the institution operates. in creating a single resolution mechanism, the adoption of this directive would establish credible rules that would sever the link between banks and governance structures.
written. - i am pleased that after three months of negotiations, an agreement has been reached on the single resolution mechanism regulations which should apply to all banks in all member states. the key to these negotiations was the position of parliament expressed at the january plenary session and the commitment to create an effective, independent and predictable mechanism with adequate financial resources. parliament succeeded in further adapting key items such as the decision-making process, the single resolution fund and the architecture of the single resolution mechanism. the agreement between the stakeholders also made a breakthrough in dealing with unsound credit institutions and investment firms that the european central bank will now be able to close down if they are deemed too weak to survive. the single resolution fund will have €55 billion available for eight years, two years shorter than the plan proposed by the council. each country participating in the banking union will have its own national drawer in the rescue fund, while each year the national share will decrease and the common share of the fund will increase simultaneously. although the council has not allowed the amendment of the intergovernmental agreement, i ultimately support the draft of this regulation which is in many ways an improvement on its original proposal.
written. - i supported the report by mrs elise ferreire on the rescue of credit institutions and certain investment companies under the single rescue mechanism and the single rescue fund for banks. the absence of institutions for the resolution of banks and investment firms in certain member states has increased the damage caused by the banking crisis in recent years. i consider that the establishment of a single resolution mechanism (srm) within the eu legal and institutional framework is the basis for creating and maintaining financial stability as well as the eu investment and banking market. the main objectives of the process of bank and investment company resolution should be to implement a set of rules that will apply to failing banks operating in member states, to conduct bank resolution by minimising the costs to taxpayers and the overall economy. i would also stress that it is essential to regain the confidence of citizens, to achieve the stability of the internal market, to create uniform conditions for the recovery of banks and companies for all eu member states. the fact is that the srm will contribute significantly to the independence of banks from government bodies and political institutions. i welcome the idea of a single bank rescue fund fund funded by credit institutions with a 1% warrant on the value of all deposits.
written. - a stronger integrated internal market for banking services is essential to promote economic recovery in the union. the current financial and economic crisis has shown that the functioning of the internal market in this area is under threat and that the risk of financial fragmentation is increasing. interbank markets have become less liquid and cross-border banking activity is declining due to fears of expansion, lack of confidence in other national banking systems and the ability of member states to support banks. this is a real problem in the internal market where banking institutions have a european passport and most of them are present in more than one member state. i supported this report because the european parliament and council directive has taken a decisive step towards harmonising resolution rules and ensuring cooperation between resolution authorities in the event of the failure of cross-border banks. the common resolution tools and powers available to the national authorities of each member state are proposed, but leave a certain degree of freedom to the national authorities in the application of the instruments and national arrangements to support the financing of the resolution process.
madam president, in the last 15 years many areas of public services have been liberalised by means of legislative solutions provided by the union. the planned benefits of the liberalization process, such as lower prices, greater choice, new jobs, have not been realized in most countries. moreover, in many parts of the union, the implementation of such laws has led to the destruction of existing structures to the detriment of consumers and has resulted in price increases and job losses. in the light of the fact that the provision of public utilities is an activity of general economic interest, and that as such it does not give the consumer a choice as to whether or not to use the service, leaving the consumer only a margin of discretion as to the choice of the service provider, in such circumstances the consumer is often in a subordinate position vis-à-vis the provider. i support the rapporteur's view that the current level of consumer protection in the use of public utilities needs to be improved.
written. - i believe that a high level of consumer protection can be achieved by raising awareness of consumer rights. the role of customer services on behalf of the utility is also important. i support the report on consumer protection in the utilities sector because of the need to strengthen the protection of citizens. i would like to stress the importance of the possibility of changing service providers. the commission should be able to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the conditions for the granting of authorisations for the provision of electronic communications networks and services. in conclusion, i believe that it is of great importance to improve consumer safety and to raise citizens' awareness of consumer rights.
written. - i supported the report by the member of parliament, marie-christine vergiat, on consumer protection in the utilities sector. the public utilities sector has common interests for consumers, is fundamental to social welfare and social and cultural integration. for many years, most eu member states have been privatising their utilities sectors in order to increase jobs and reduce costs for consumers. but privatization has led to problems in many countries: job losses, increased service prices, and restrictive contract terms that limit consumers and their freedom. that's why i think the four major privatized sectors are making structural changes to protect consumers and their safety. in the energy sector, contract termination procedures should be simplified, electronic invoicing introduced and price changes made more transparent, while in the telecommunications sector, the importance of setting up new infrastructure and facilitating switching service providers without additional charges should be emphasised. in the postal services sector, i stress the importance of fast and reliable delivery, and in public transport, the target groups are the elderly whose social dimension needs to be increased. the utility sector in croatia contributes significantly to the total economy: it employs about 4% of the total number of employees, realizes about 2% of the total income of the economy, and the value of the property is about 4% of the total property of the economy.
written. - i support this report. research and innovation must be encouraged by the commission and the member states in the inland waterway transport sector and in the area of port infrastructure. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council. the commission should be able to request the member states to provide additional information on the implementation of the measures referred to in paragraph 1 in the light of the experience gained in the implementation of the measures referred to in paragraph 1. furthermore, it is also necessary to propose ways of reinforcing the reserve funds with the existing funds and financial instruments of the european investment bank. the reserve funds must also be used to enhance the multiplier effect of grants financed from the union budget and the same effect of the european investment bank's financial instruments for measures supporting innovation in the field of vessels, including the development of vessels adapted to river navigation, and their adaptation to technical progress essential for the preservation of the environment and the reduction of pollution as a whole. the strengthening of the reserve funds was encouraged by the commission itself, which prescribes the upgrading of existing funds and their development in several directions.
written. - i supported the motion for a resolution on consumer protection which focuses on the utility sector because it rightly puts the consumer or user at the centre of its preoccupations. i particularly agree with the resolution in that it stresses the need for consumers to have access to affordable and high quality utilities throughout the eu. this principle is unfortunately increasingly called into question in the context of fiscal consolidations in which a number of member states do not hesitate to raise or create charges on utilities. i also share the rapporteur's view in advocating the introduction of appropriate mechanisms for vulnerable groups of consumers. in particular, i believe that vulnerable groups of consumers deserve the highest level of protection, particularly when it comes to the supply of electricity or natural gas. finally, i support the proposal in the part which calls for greater flexibility in the contracting of electronic communications services, i.e. in the context of changing service providers.
written. - transport by river and canal is also an energy efficient way of transporting goods. it plays a key role in the transport of goods from european busy seaports to their final destination. however, the potential of this mode of transport is not fully exploited. in general, the naiades ii inland waterway development programme is not badly conceived, but the commission should have been more specific in its measures and more generous in its resources. the 'greening' of the river fleet, however, has gone a step too far. a riverboat uses about 15 times less fuel than a truck and 3 times less than a train. additional emission reductions and the inevitable associated costs for shipowners are not necessary at this point. what they need is funding for river infrastructure projects from european funds like the cef. this is particularly true of the danube waterways in the countries downstream from austria, where the recovery of seafarers from the crisis is slower than, for example, in the rhine.
written. - the harmonisation of the common set of standards relating to the fulfilment of technical rules for inland waterway vessels that this revision aims to achieve is important to ensure the same level of safety of vessels in all member states, but also to ensure the conformity of certificates, so that, for example, a certificate issued in one member state would be recognised in all member states without the need for additional administrative work. this is important for the republic of croatia with a large volume of river freight transport from central and south-eastern europe, but also for the whole european union as the harmonisation will stimulate investment and further growth of the inland waterway sector which has great potential. i also support the necessary adaptations to the directive to the new rules on delegated acts introduced by the lisbon agreement which will enable the commission to adapt the technical rules more efficiently and easily in the future.
written. - i supported the report by mrs wortmann-kool on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council laying down technical rules for inland waterway vessels. the wortmann-kool college advocated further harmonisation of technical rules in order to ensure further legal certainty and appropriate adaptation to technical progress. the timely introduction of this type of adaptation should become possible, ensuring high safety standards on all eu waterways and allowing further innovation and safety in the sector. in order to provide conditions for inland waterway vessels, i support stronger cooperation between the commission's river services and the ccnr (central commission for the navigation of the rhine) and the un economic commission for europe and the commission. the commission notes that the measures provided for in the 2014 aviation guidelines are in line with the principles of the union guidelines on state aid for rescuing and restructuring firms in difficulty, as set out in the guidelines on state aid for rescuing and restructuring firms in difficulty. if shipowners want to secure a competitive position in the single european market, more attention should be paid to modernising the fleet, introducing innovations in transport technology and meeting new technical standards. the commission notes that the measure is not intended to encourage the development of small and medium-sized enterprises in the maritime sector.
written. - i supported the revision of the directive and i consider that the technical rules defined in this directive need to be continuously updated to take account of scientific and technical progress and technical standards in the field of inland navigation as well as the high level of safety and efficiency of inland navigation. directive 2006/871ec did not provide for legal certainty which could have an adverse effect on safety of navigation and the different legal and time frame for decision-making procedures make it difficult to maintain the equivalence of union inland navigation certificates.
written. - fraud involving false declarations of origin amounts to up to €110 million a year in the eu countries. however, the true extent of fraud is difficult to estimate, and we can reasonably assume that it is much larger than the available figures. this is why it is important to set up a high-quality legal framework for customs regulation. the proposal aims to simplify and speed up the mechanisms for combating fraud, avoid unnecessary red tape, strengthen the security of the eu's internal market and products moving within it, while providing the basis for high-quality consumer protection.
written. - the european union has a responsibility to combat customs fraud and to contribute to the fundamental objective of the internal market, namely the safe trade in products with authentic certificates of origin, thus ensuring a high level of consumer protection. the commission has also found that the legal framework in place in the past has not been effective because it has prevented direct cooperation and document exchange between the commission's investigating representatives and economic operators. the national authorities have acted as intermediaries in this relationship, often being unable to provide timely responses and requested documentation due to lack of staff or time. the increase in fraud requires effective prevention and detection mechanisms at both national and european level and requires coherent action at both levels. therefore, i support the rapporteur's view that the commission should be empowered to establish direct contact with economic operators, with prior notification to the national authorities. i believe that this would simplify and speed up the mechanisms for combating customs fraud and avoid unnecessary complications of bureaucracy. on the other hand, the safety of products placed on the internal market would be strengthened and consumers would be provided with a higher level of protection.
written. - the proposal adopted by the committee on the internal market and consumer protection aims to simplify and speed up the mechanisms for combating customs fraud and to avoid unnecessary and repetitive red tape. this report amends the rules of the european parliament and of the european council on the mutual cooperation of the administrative authorities of the member states of the union and the cooperation of the member states and the commission to ensure the correct application of customs and agricultural legislation. the regulation currently in force contains many loopholes and omissions that allow for a series of fraudulent false declarations of origin and false descriptions of goods carried, resulting in a loss of approximately eur 107,7 million per year. i therefore consider the proposal to be justified and proportionate, and i voted in favour.
written. - i supported the report by mr francesco speroni on information in the field of technical regulations and rules on information society services. i consider that access to and exchange of information is the basis for the creation of a competitive internal market of the european union, i support the initiative for member states to publicly announce the adoption of national technical regulations in accordance with the official procedure with regard to informing citizens of all technical regulations and legal standards when carrying out transactions in the home countries and throughout the eu. i welcome the idea of creating an environment that encourages the competitiveness of entrepreneurs and all business entities. the european commission has an important role to play in ensuring that businesses and governments comply with the eu rules on doing business in the internal market. the promotion of consumer policy can make a major contribution to the development and stability of the internal market and to stimulating citizens' confidence in the market.
written. - i support the report because its aim is to ensure the smooth and safe movement of goods, thereby enabling the implementation of the main principles of the european union. the definition of technical regulations or measures ensures the proper functioning of the market while promoting further market development. the commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down the conditions for the application of this regulation. in order to ensure market development, it is necessary to contribute to increasing the transparency of national intentions and to broadening the criteria and conditions on the basis of which the potential impact of proposed regulations on the market is assessed. the commission should be able to assess the application of this regulation in the light of the requirements laid down in the annex to regulation (eu) no 1025/2012. the commission should be able to take into account the impact of the measures on the free movement of goods, in particular the impact of the measures on the free movement of goods, and the impact of the measures on the free movement of goods. i believe that particular emphasis should be placed on timely and appropriate information to all member states on the planned technical regulations, in order to avoid distortions of competition on the market and for individual undertakings.
written. - i supported this report because the codification of the proposal did not substantially amend the provisions contained in directive 98/34/ec laying down a procedure for the adoption of technical standards in the field of information society standards, civil engineering, transport, telecommunications and agriculture. it's just a technical adjustment.
written. - this report includes croatia in the legislative framework for the elimination of double taxation in relation to the reconciliation of profits of related companies. the eu has also provided a number of instruments to support the implementation of the eu acquis in the field of human rights, including the convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. the rapporteur insists on the date of inclusion of croatia in the agreement and considers that this date should be as soon as possible. according to the treaty of accession of croatia to the european union, the procedure, unlike for previous new members, must be simplified. the council undertook to set a clear date for croatia to make the necessary preparations as soon as possible. the proposal will come from the commission and be adopted after consultation of the european parliament.
written. - croatia as a new member of the european union should enjoy all the rights as the old members. i therefore support this report which establishes a legislative framework to eliminate double taxation of profits of associated companies. this tax harmonisation will avoid tax measures that have had a negative impact on the functioning of the common market, namely on the free movement of goods, services and capital. i consider it important that croatia's conditions of doing business in the european union's internal market are improving and that competitiveness is increasing.
the republic of croatia has committed itself to respect and implement all the laws of the union by the treaty on european union and, even before accession, the process of adapting croatian legislation to european law has begun. this commission recommendation for a council decision concerns the accession of the czech republic to the convention 90/436/eec of 23 july 1990 on the elimination of double taxation in connection with the adjustment of profits of associated companies (the so-called arbitration convention). the arbitration convention establishes a legal framework for the elimination of double taxation in relation to the alignment of profits of related companies in arbitration which allows companies to request a review of the evidence by aligning the profits of related companies and a dispute resolution mechanism to resolve such situations in cases of double taxation between companies from different member states. in this way, the convention improves the conditions for cross-border activities in the internal market. the council is required to adopt a decision determining the date of entry into force of the arbitration convention in croatia and to make any necessary adjustments to the convention, pursuant to article 3 (5). since the commission proposal was unanimously supported by the econ committee vote, i consider that there should be no problems in the future with regard to the accession of the republic of croatia to this convention.
written. - i supported the report of my colleague slavomir nitraš on croatia's accession to the 1990 convention on the elimination of double taxation. i believe that croatia's accession to the convention on the elimination of double taxation will benefit croatian companies and citizens. the main objectives of croatia's accession to the 1990 convention on the elimination of double taxation are: to eliminate double taxation of associated companies, to increase the competitiveness of croatian companies on the european market, to expand business, to increase stability and security of the market and of the business of croatian companies. the accession of croatia to the convention could lead to a potential increase in foreign investment in croatia.
written. - i particularly support this report because it concerns the republic of croatia, a member state whose interests i represent in parliament. croatia's accession to the convention is another step towards ensuring that croatia enjoys all the benefits of the european union. this convention eliminates double taxation and thus significantly simplifies the taxation system of companies operating within the eu, i.e. outside the country of residence, i.e. croatia. the simplification of the taxation system guarantees improved transparency and productivity and thus contributes to competitiveness and market development, both croatian and european. i also welcome the request that the date of entry into force of the arbitration convention be defined in the proposed text of the decision, thereby pre-emptively removing the consequences of the retroactive establishment of the date of entry into force of the convention. croatia should endeavour to prepare the competent authorities in an appropriate manner for the effective functioning of the convention. i consider that this information should also be taken into account when determining the date of application. i hope that the arbitration convention will be signed as soon as possible and that croatia will make further progress on similar instruments.
written. as a representative from croatia, i approached this proposal with particular interest. the commission proposal for a council decision concerns the accession of the republic of croatia to convention 90/436/eec of 23 july 1990 (the so-called 'arbitration convention'). in addition to the elimination of double taxation linked to the adjustment of profits of related companies, the convention establishes a legal framework for the elimination of double taxation by, inter alia, establishing an arbitration procedure allowing companies to seek a statement of adjustment of profits and a mechanism for resolving disputes between companies in different member states of the union where double taxation occurs. the convention therefore significantly improves the conditions for crossborder activities in that sector, and the subsequent proposal has also received my support.
written. - the shfit2rail joint undertaking (s2r) should be a public-private partnership aimed at encouraging and better coordinating union investment in research and innovation in the rail sector, creating new employment opportunities, accelerating and facilitating the transition to a more integrated, user-friendly, efficient, sustainable and attractive eu rail market. shift2rail should contribute to the improvement of the efficiency of the railway sector for the benefit of the public treasury, the expansion and modernisation of the capacity of the railway network, thereby enabling the railway to compete successfully and to take a significantly higher share of passenger and freight traffic, the improvement of the quality of rail transport services by responding to the needs of passengers and freight forwarders, and the removal of technical barriers hampering the interoperability of the sector. horizon 2020 should contribute to bridging the research and innovation gap within the union by fostering synergies with the european structural and investment funds (esif). the s2r joint undertaking should therefore seek to develop close interaction with the esif, which in particular can help to strengthen local, regional and national research and innovation capacities in the s2r joint undertaking and support efforts related to smart specialisation.
written. - i welcome the proposal to establish the shift2rail joint undertaking as part of the achievement of the objectives of the horizon 2020 initiative. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's railway policy and its implementation in the member states. i particularly see the need to modernise the railways in member states which are below the european average in terms of infrastructure and services, and unfortunately the republic of croatia is one of them. i therefore hope that this programme, with the contributions of both the european union and the industrial partners, will achieve a harmonized, modern and efficient railway system. in order to achieve this, it is important to ensure a culture of openness in the joint undertaking and i therefore support in particular the amendments relating to transparency in the activities of the joint undertaking.
written. - i welcome this proposal for a regulation, in particular the amendments, the amendments ensuring the transparency and openness of the shift2rail joint undertaking. the aim of shift2rail is to contribute to the development of the most sustainable mode of transport of goods and passengers, namely rail, through research and innovation, thereby strengthening the competitiveness of european companies and maintaining europe's leadership in the global rail market. the commission notes that the project is part of the 'clean energy' initiative, which aims to improve the energy efficiency of buildings by reducing the use of fossil fuels and by improving the energy efficiency of buildings. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 264 concerning the establishment of a european data protection supervisor. the joint undertaking should be able to provide the necessary technical support to the joint undertaking in the form of technical assistance. i hope that the objectives of the joint undertaking will be achieved successfully, that the competitiveness of rail transport will be increased for all member states, including croatia, where we are witnessing many negative developments related to rail transport. the recent closure of some railway lines has caused discontent among croatian citizens. the commission notes that the measures provided for in this decision are in line with the principles of the state aid rules and are therefore compatible with the internal market.
written. - i supported the proposal to establish the 'shfit2rail' joint undertaking, which should be a public-private partnership aimed at encouraging and better coordinating union investment in research and innovation in the rail sector, while creating new employment opportunities, all with the aim of accelerating and facilitating the transition to a more integrated eu rail market. the s2r joint undertaking should contribute to the achievement of the specific objectives set out in the 2011 white paper and the fourth railway package, including better efficiency of the railway sector for the benefit of the public treasury, a significant expansion or modernisation of rail network capacity to enable the railways to compete successfully and to take a significantly higher share of passenger and freight traffic.
written. - i welcome this motion for a parliamentary decision on the request for the protection of the immunities and privileges of alexander mirsky because i believe that the mep has expressed his opinion in the european parliament in order to draw attention to the issue of the referendum on the closure of russian schools in latvia. he was thereby performing his duties as a member of parliament and his address to parliament was for the sole purpose of addressing the said questions. for this reason, i support the decision guaranteeing the protection of immunities and privileges in the civil litigation of the court of riga and hope that the competent institutions will act in accordance with this decision. our mission is to ensure the protection of human freedoms regardless of activities that individuals may deem unfavorable. freedom of speech is one of the basic conditions for a quality of life and a high level of democracy, and must therefore be treated with special care and attention.
written. - i voted against, because i believe that the accusations made by representative mirsky against the latvian party are unfounded, inappropriate, biased and dangerous, and the said representative accordingly must bear the consequences for his words, because freedom of speech implies responsibility for what is said.
the commission has decided to mobilise the egf in order to provide additional support to the restructuring of the italian steel industry. while i welcome the efforts to help european workers who have lost their jobs as european manufacturers move production facilities outside the eu to countries with cheaper labour, mainly china and india, i voted in abstention because i believe that in the long term, workers will be helped more concretely if the money from the egf is redirected in the future to investments that will contribute to economic growth and keep production in europe and thus jobs.
written. - the european globalisation adjustment fund was created to provide additional assistance to workers suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in world trade. unfortunately, the santana group in spain is eligible to mobilise this fund and i support the decision of parliament to allow it to use the funds. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the commission has taken into account the fact that the commission has not provided any evidence that the commission has taken into account the fact that the commission has not provided any evidence that the commission has taken into account the facts available. i welcome the decision to use the funds to provide additional training, business advice and active job search assistance to reintegrate workers (285 workers) i hope for a transparent and open use of the european funds. i also sympathize with the situation in spain because croatia is also facing the problem of high unemployment, especially among young people.
written. - while i welcome the efforts to help european workers who have lost their jobs as european manufacturers move production facilities outside the eu to countries with cheaper labour, mainly china and india, i did not support this report because i believe that in the long term, workers would be helped more concretely if the money from the egf were redirected in the future to investments that would contribute to growth and keep production in europe and thus jobs.
(speaker without a microphone) a tool to maintain confidence in banking systems, prevent bank runs and, in particular, a deposit insurance system. the scheme is governed by directive 94/19/ec which provides for the possibility of reimbursing depositors for bank deposits of eur 100 000. the commission notes that the bank of greece has not provided any evidence that the bank of greece has been able to comply with the requirements of the banking communication. i therefore welcome the draft legislative resolution. the commission should also be able to request the member states to provide additional information on the application of the rules on the application of the rules on the application of the rules on the application of the rules on the application of the rules on the application of the rules on the application of the rules on the application of the rules on the application of the rules on the application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application. the commission notes that the bank of greece has not provided any evidence that the bank of greece has been able to obtain a loan from the state. in any case, i am in favour of this approach and support this proposal.
written. - the deposit guarantee system is usually the first to be hit when a banking crisis shakes financial stability, and under heavy pressure from increased payments of insured deposits are the deposit guarantee funds. the commission notes that the bank's capital needs are not limited to the minimum capital requirements of the bank, but are also limited to the minimum capital requirements of the bank. in order for deposits to have a source from which they are paid, it is essential that banks raise available funds of 0,8% of the covered deposits, which was achieved by a political compromise. the commission notes that the bank has not provided any information on the amount of the capital injections. the last publicly available data in the republic of croatia refer to the end of 2012, when the coverage ratio of potential liabilities with the assets in the insurance fund was 2,15%. the commission notes that the bank has not provided any information on the amount of the capital injections, but has provided information on the amount of the capital injections and the amount of the capital injections. the aim of harmonising croatian and european legislation is to better protect citizens' deposits and i therefore support the compromises reached.
written. - i support the revised directive which provides guidelines for the calculation of the contributions of credit institutions to insurance schemes. in addition to their direct function, deposit guarantee schemes are essential for the stability of financial systems, in particular in times of crisis. if people lost confidence in financial institutions, and started to withdraw their deposits, it would lead to the collapse of already unstable institutions. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the amount of the capital injections in the case of the bank of greece.
madam president, the european union is very concerned about protecting the environment and reducing greenhouse gas emissions, and so we in the committee on the environment have also dealt with this issue and concluded that it is of the utmost importance to reduce the use of fossil fuels and to build the infrastructure to make the use of alternative fuels as widespread as possible. i therefore support the proposal for a directive on the deployment of alternative fuels infrastructure, and agree with the rapporteur that when selecting new types of alternative fuels, it should take into account the results of research carried out showing that electricity, hydrogen, biofuels, paraffin fuels, natural gas, liquefied natural gas and liquefied petroleum gas represent the main alternative fuels with the potential for long-term oil substitution and decarbonisation, which should certainly be the long-term goal of all member states. the use of electricity and sustainable energy sources is of particular interest from the point of view of electric vehicles, especially those intended for public transport. there are not many such examples in croatia, but i can point to one in the city of rijeka, where there are already 10 public transport buses that use liquefied petroleum gas and diesel as their fuel.
written. - the eu's target is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from transport by 60% by 2050 compared to 1990 levels. member states should aim to reduce energy consumption, in particular oil and oil products consumption in the transport sector, as well as the introduction of public transport services by electric vehicles. electricity, hydrogen, biofuels, natural gas and liquefied petroleum gas (lpg) are identified as the main alternative fuels with potential for long-term oil substitution and decarbonisation. this directive encourages the development of the alternative fuels market, including the necessary infrastructure to be put in place, in close cooperation with regional and local authorities and industry. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the conditions for the participation of third countries in the union's energy market. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the definition of the concept of 'competent authority' and the definition of the concept of 'competent authority'. there are many types of clean fuels that can be alternatives to fossil fuels. the legislation and standards should be designed in such a way that no particular type of technology is favoured, thereby not preventing the further development of alternative fuels.
written. - i supported the report of my colleague carl fidanza on alternative fuels infrastructure. the commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market if it is granted to the beneficiary in accordance with the conditions laid down in article 107 (3) (c) of the treaty. the idea is to achieve europe's energy independence, given that more than 80% of petroleum products used in transport in europe are imported. the main objectives of the proposed directive are to reduce emissions of harmful gases, to ensure the security of own resources and to increase competitiveness in the face of the much lower prices of alternative fuels compared to petroleum derivatives. the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the measures on the environment and the environmentally sustainable use of energy. at the moment, the leading countries in europe are italy and germany, which together have 900,000 alternative fuel vehicles, while the rest of europe has 200,000 vehicles. given the statistical indicators, i believe that the eu has a lot of room for improvement with the right projects and investments. in my opinion, croatia should also invest in the upgrading of alternative fuel infrastructure and technology, and thereby establish a sales network and vehicle charging points throughout the country.
written. - i supported this directive because it does not intend to place an additional financial burden on member states or regional and local authorities, especially in a period of financial and economic crisis. member states should be able to implement this directive in a way that does not affect their national budgets, using a wide range of regulatory and non-regulatory incentives, in close cooperation with private sector actors that should play a leading role in supporting the development of alternative fuels infrastructure. the commission considers that the measures in question are imputable to the state and that the aid is compatible with the internal market.
madam president, i supported the report by my colleague jörg leichtfriede because heavy goods vehicles are responsible for about 26% of co2 emissions from road transport in europe and their fuel efficiency has in most cases not improved in the last 20 years. improved aerodynamics of the cabin of motor vehicles would allow for significant improvements in the energy efficiency of the vehicle and i fully support the rapporteur's view that it is of the utmost importance to reduce vehicle emissions in the road freight transport sector as a matter of urgency. however, it is clear that the improvement cannot be achieved within the current maximum authorised lengths laid down by directive 96/53 without reducing the vehicle load-bearing capacity and jeopardising the economic equilibrium of that sector. in the case of vehicles equipped with a technology to reduce co2 emissions, it should be allowed to exceed the maximum permissible mass by up to one tonne depending on the mass required for that technology.
written. - heavy goods vehicles are responsible for approximately 26%[nbsp ] of co2 emissions in road transport in europe, and their fuel efficiency has hardly improved in the last 20 years. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 concerning the conditions for the granting of such a derogation. the new cab design will also contribute to improving road safety by reducing the blind spot in the driver's field of vision, including the field of vision below the windscreen and sideways, thereby saving the lives of many vulnerable road users such as pedestrians and cyclists. the new cab design should therefore become mandatory after an appropriate transitional period. the new design should also include structures for absorbing energy in the event of a collision. the potential increase in cab space would also improve driver comfort and safety. this directive should encourage and facilitate innovation in the design of vehicles and transport units.
written. - heavy goods vehicles are responsible for approximately 26% of carbon dioxide emissions from road transport in europe, and their fuel efficiency has hardly improved in the last 20 years. these data make it clear that we need to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from transport as soon as possible. i also agree with the directive's framework idea that improved motor vehicle aerodynamics would allow for significant improvements in vehicle energy efficiency. however, by allowing the cross-border transport of longer and taller trucks, i.e. the so-called 'megakaminon', a transport precedent would be set. the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the measures on the environment and the environment-related impacts of the measures. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the aid granted to the beneficiary was granted in breach of the principle of proportionality. i therefore believe that the future of transport in the european union should be taken into account when deciding on this directive, while respecting the already set objectives of shifting road transport to more environmentally friendly rail transport.
written. - i supported the report of the representative jörg leichtfried on the dimensions and mass of road vehicles that circulate within the community. in 2011, the average fuel consumption per person in the eu was 5,4 litres/100 km, or eur 1200 per year. in view of the eu's energy costs, i believe that we need to establish conditions for the use of engines that are less harmful to the environment, build infrastructure for vehicles powered by alternative fuels, adapt the rules and laws on vehicle dimensions and masses to allow for better vehicle usability, the installation of alternative powertrains in vehicles and greater safety for all road users. it is necessary to harmonise inspection measures in the eu member states and introduce new inspection measures to prevent the movement of vehicles which are in breach due to their excessive weight and dimensions, thereby facilitating and speeding up the flow of traffic and preserving the eu infrastructure. in 2011, 37890 tonnes of petrol and diesel were consumed in road passenger transport in croatia. the average fuel consumption is 26 liters per 100 kilometers. in the same year, 8926 million tonne kilometres of goods were transported by road, both domestically and internationally, with a significant impact on transport infrastructure, energy costs and environmental pollution.
written. - i supported this report because i want to ensure uniform conditions for the implementation of regulation (ec) no 1365/2006. accordingly, implementing powers should be conferred on the commission to adopt procedures for the transmission of data in accordance with regulation (eu) no 182/2011, including standards for data exchange, for the publication of the results of the commission (eurostat) and for the definition and publication of methodological requirements and criteria established to ensure the quality of the data. the commission should also ensure that those delegated acts do not impose a higher additional administrative burden on member states or on data providers.
mr president, the financial crisis has shown that the union lacks the instruments to tackle the problems of credit institutions. this is most relevant for insolvency problems and the consequences of insolvency. i support this proposal by mr hokmarck, because the establishment of a single resolution mechanism will contribute to strengthening the institutions and stability of the union. the union markets are inter-integrated and it is highly likely that the failure of a credit institution operating across borders will affect the stability of financial markets in other member states. the current problems in financial markets in the union are the result of wider developments across the system and have an adverse impact on the economy but also on the citizens of the union. in order to maintain market confidence but also to reduce the risk of failure, member states should be prepared to have instruments to deal with situations such as systemic crisis and the failure of individual credit institutions and natural persons. in the absence of harmonised union-wide resolution procedures for credit institutions, it is necessary to introduce such a system that would provide a reliable package of instruments for rapid intervention in a failing credit institution and that could minimise the impact of a failure.
madam president, after five years of debate, we have today reached a political agreement which will undoubtedly leave a mark on this european parliament, especially when it comes to the economic and monetary affairs of the european union. we sent a clear message to banks today that they should be responsible for their business risks and that they cannot rely on taxpayers' money when things go wrong because of bank speculation. i am convinced that this will help banks and their governance structures to behave as responsibly as possible in the future with regard to their investments. more importantly, we have shown the citizens that they are the focus of our attention when it comes to the economic crisis and that we are aware of the fact that banking is not some abstract world, but a world deeply connected to their daily plans. banks exist to serve the economic activities of citizens, not for citizens to bear the consequences of risky banking investments. that's the key message of our citizens' event today. we have laid a strong legal foundation for the successful functioning of the banking union and i deeply hope that we will show the same enthusiasm in implementing this new legal infrastructure that has been the subject of such a long and high-quality debate here.
written. - as we witnessed in 2007, the financial crisis has shown that there are not enough effective instruments at union level to tackle the problem of unhealthy credit institutions. the commission notes that the banking communication of the european parliament and of the council of 16 december 2013 on the application of the prudential framework to credit institutions and investment firms in the union (oj c 180, 20.7.2013, p. the adoption of this framework is a prerequisite for the achievement of the single supervisory mechanism as one of the key pillars of the banking union. the objective of the banking union is to create an integrated financial framework that protects financial stability and minimises the costs of bank failure. i am very pleased with the outcome of six months of negotiations with the council, and i believe that this package of measures we have fought for could change the best way to rescue credit institutions and investment companies. the single supervisory mechanism is an absolute priority for the further functioning of the union.
written. - i supported this directive which should provide a framework for group resolution authorities and other relevant resolution authorities to enable them to develop a group approach to resolution. without a coordinated group approach to resolution, nationalisation of banking groups by a legal entity would jeopardise the internal market and could give member states an incentive to resolve banking groups and legal entities. the ongoing review of the regulatory framework, in particular the strengthening of capital and liquidity buffers and better instruments for macroprudential strategies, will reduce the likelihood of a systemic crisis in the future and strengthen the resilience of credit institutions and investment firms to stress, whether caused by systemic disruptions or events specific to an individual credit institution or investment firm. member states should be prepared and equipped with appropriate tools to deal with situations involving both systemic crises and the failure of individual credit institutions and investment firms.
madam president, since the ucits directive was adopted back in 1985, the rules relating to depositaries in the directive have remained unchanged. i therefore support this directive which aims primarily at increasing investor confidence, whereas the existing directive is based on national laws and as such leaves room for different interpretation regarding the duties and responsibilities of depositors and the policy on fees and penalties. as a result, different approaches have emerged in the member states, leading to investors facing unequal levels of protection in different legislative areas. given that the obligations and responsibilities of depositaries and the development of common standards for penalties relating to infringements of the provisions of this directive cannot be sufficiently achieved by member states independently of each other, i consider that, given their scope and impact, this can be done much more effectively at union level. it is also necessary to ensure a level playing field for depositaries so that such alignment would increase legal certainty and investor protection, and contribute to the creation of a level playing field.
written. - ucits are a type of investment fund established in the member states with the objective of jointly investing in transferable securities quoted on the open market under the principle of risk-sharing. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. unfortunately, the plenary vote has been postponed several times so far, as the epp and alde have not been able to reach a decision on how much they agree with the industry. however, there are many agreements on reuse/asset protection, depositors' liability, sanctions, insurance and compensation to investors, which is why i support this report.
written. - i supported the proposal for a regulation which builds on the existing authorisation procedures for ucits which are aligned with the ucits directive. it introduces a harmonised authorisation procedure for aifs of mmfs as, in accordance with the alternative investment fund managers directive (aifm), the authorisation of alternative investment funds remains a decision of the member states. the harmonised procedure for aifs of mmfs will reflect the harmonised authorisation procedure for ucits. those uniform rules are intended to protect the integrity of the internal market and to strengthen it in order to mitigate the effects of a new crisis. investors will become aware of the risks associated with those regulated products and rely on the proposal for a homogeneous investment linked to mmfs in the union. the operators will benefit from harmonised rules for products across europe. issuers of money market instruments will benefit from a more stable environment that preserves the role of mmfs as a financing instrument.
madam president, greater participation of users in the internal market could provide additional incentives for payment service providers to enter new markets. the creation of conditions under which users can access payment accounts is necessary to encourage their participation and benefit from the single market. significant constraints in the final completion of the single market in payment accounts may be caused by the fragmentation of existing national legislative frameworks. existing provisions at national level relating to the comparability of fees and switching of payment accounts are often complicated. the lack of binding uniform measures at european union level has led to inconsistencies between practices and measures at national level. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the union industry would have benefited from the measures in question. the differences must not become more pronounced in the future as banks seek to adapt their operations to national markets. i support this way.
madam president, today i supported the report on the bank accounts directive, because the possibility of opening accounts for everyone, regardless of nationality or financial status, and the comparability of prices of banking services are part of the rights that are important for the quality of everyday life of citizens. the adoption of this directive by citizens: 1. facilitates the procedure for opening and transferring accounts in the event of choosing other banks; 2. makes it possible to understand the services and prices paid for the maintenance of bank accounts in such a way that all banks are required to provide a simple presentation of services and fees and to compare them with the services and fees of others. the european commission's analysis has shown that citizens have difficulty in choosing banking services and that they have difficulty in distinguishing which bank offers a better and cheaper service.
written. - this proposal emphasises that everyone should be able to carry out banking transactions without hindrance, regardless of their financial situation, employment or place of residence. the proposal also protects the users of banking services. all banks are required to provide a simple presentation of services and prices and to compare them with those of others. it also makes it easier to transfer accounts, and banks must ensure speed and professionalism. that's why i'm supporting this report.
written. - the provision of payment services has recently become one of the key factors for the smooth functioning of the market and the development of a modern and socially inclusive economy. such developments should be accompanied by efforts to serve businesses and consumers in the union's financial sector, and the current lack of transparency and comparability of fees, as well as the difficulties in switching payment accounts, are hampering the full establishment of an integrated market. the union aims to address the problem of uneven product quality, poor competition in banking and to achieve a high quality standard. for the reasons set out above, i support the recent agreement reached between parliament and the council. the creation of a basic bank account, accessible to all citizens of the union, is a major advance in payments. consumers will be able to use this basic account for payments such as withdrawals, transfers, payment orders and usage, and will have a payment card. i insist on the minimum charge for the user of the basic bank account. the minimum fee for the basic account shall be the minimum fee for the basic account set out in annex i. only then would a basic bank account serve its purpose and become available to all citizens without discrimination.
written. - i supported the report by mr jürgen klute on payment accounts, as i believe that the proper functioning and development of the single market depends on the universal provision of payment services. current market conditions limit cross-border activities by barriers such as the opening of payment accounts abroad, the lack of transparency of fees and services offered and the creation of difficulties for switching payment accounts. i believe that the obstacles we face can be removed by ensuring improved transparency and comparability of fees, harmonising transactions, eliminating discrimination on grounds of residence and facilitating the switching of payment accounts. the eurobarometer survey conducted in 2012 shows that around 3[nbsp ]% of respondents have an open overseas payment account, while the world bank estimates that around 58 million banking customers in the eu do not have an open payment account. about 28 million of those consumers would like to open an account. the balance of payments of croatia shows the transparency of citizens' special purpose accounts and non-resident accounts, which amount to 5 209 761 accounts opened abroad. the commission notes that the bank's capital needs are not reflected in the capital needs of the bank, but in the capital needs of the bank. this gives priority to the development of international business.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the transparency of charges for payment services by payment service providers in relation to services offered on payment accounts. the proposal aims to ensure that payment service providers are able to provide information on the transparency of charges for payment services by payment service providers in relation to services offered on payment accounts. this significantly facilitates the activity of payment service providers by creating uniform rules regarding the provision of payment services and the information to be provided, reduces administrative burden and enables cost savings for payment service providers. while i agree with most of the revision of the directive, i voted against this report because i believe that the structure of the information fee document should be set up at national level and that the directive infringes the principle of subsidiarity.
madam president, when considering investments, investors have a growing choice of different types of investment products. these products can offer specific investment solutions tailored to the needs of small investors, but they are often complex and difficult to understand. small investors often invested with risks and costs they did not fully understand and therefore sometimes suffered unforeseen losses. improving the provisions on the transparency of investment products offered to retail investors is an important measure for investor protection and a prerequisite for rebuilding confidence. the key information documents are the basis for retail investors' investment decisions and therefore providers and sellers of investment products have an important responsibility towards retail investors and must ensure compliance with this regulation. it is necessary to ensure that all retail investors throughout the union are equally entitled to compensation for damage suffered as a result of the infringement of this regulation by the providers of investment products. it also requires the harmonisation of the provisions on the liability of investment product providers.
madam president, i have supported the report by representative berès on key information documents for investment products. the legal changes will ensure equal protection of retail investors in the fast-growing market for investment products, the complexity of which often exceeds the knowledge of the average investor. the lack of information has the effect of making investment decisions based on incorrect information and taking risks that they do not understand. the rules, the obligation to draw up a key information document on its mandatory content and the procedure for its adoption will create a single legal framework for the protection of retail deposits in the union. the key information document shall be truthful, clear, understandable and accurate so as not to mislead investors as to the nature of the investment product. the consequence of the above of exceptional importance is the establishment of liability for damage caused by an incomplete, inaccurate and untrue document. i also welcome the introduction of stricter supervisory and control powers of the competent authorities of the union and the member states to ensure compliance with the rules of the regulation.
written. - small investors are offered a wide range of investment opportunities in the investment products market. such products also offer specific investment solutions tailored to the needs of small investors, they are often very complex and difficult to understand. the information available to investors does not help to compare products and understand their characteristics and, as a consequence, risks and costs are incurred and unforeseen losses are incurred. the improvement of the provisions on the transparency of investment products offered to retail investors is a key measure for the protection of retail investors and a prerequisite for building retail investor confidence in financial markets after the financial crisis. it is necessary to establish uniform transparency rules at union level applicable to all investment products market participants in order to prevent inconsistencies and reduce costs and uncertainty for product providers and distributors. this final agreement embodies all of our group's efforts to protect retail investors from risky and opaque investment products while ensuring full disclosure of investment information, and i fully support it.
written. - i supported this regulation which should apply to all products and underlying investments, regardless of their form or design, offered in the financial services sector to provide investment opportunities to retail investors and where the return on investment offered to the investor depends on the development of one or more asset values or benchmarks. in order to meet the needs of retail investors, it is necessary to ensure that information on investment products is accurate, truthful, clear and unambiguous. accordingly, common standards for the drafting of the key investor information document should be established to ensure that it is understandable to retail investors. in order to ensure that the information provided by the competent authority is not misused, the competent authority should be able to verify that the information provided by the competent authority is accurate and reliable.
mr president, the number of cases before the general court has been steadily increasing, resulting in overworking judges and lengthened proceedings in recent years. the excessive duration of the proceedings themselves calls into question the principle of a trial within a reasonable time and jeopardises the rule of law. the court of justice has already held that the principle of proportionality is not applicable to the application of the principle of proportionality to the case-law of the court of justice. the increase in the number of judges would result in a reduction in the number of cases currently decided and would reduce the excessive length of proceedings before the general court in the short term. the rapid conclusion of an agreement is of the utmost importance, and i therefore supported the rapporteur's view that the proposals put forward by the european council and the court of justice should be taken into account in order to reach a consensus as soon as possible.
madam vice-president, i supported the report by mrs thein on the regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending the protocol on the statute of the court of justice of the european union by increasing the number of judges of the general court, as i believe that the effectiveness of the entire legal system of the union may be jeopardised. i also supported the proposal that expertise and a high level of knowledge of european and member state law and their application should be the sole criteria for the appointment of additional judges. the court of justice is one of the 7 main institutions of the european union and plays a very important role within the institutional architecture, ensuring that european law is respected in the interpretation and application of the founding treaties, not only by the member states but also by the institutions and their agencies. the court's activity increased significantly during 2013, and the number of cases concluded, with 1587 cases, indicates that the productivity of the institution has reached a record level. the court of justice has also been replaced by a judge from croatia this year, but i believe that the scope of the cases warrants an additional increase in the number of judges.
written. - the extension of the jurisdiction of the general court has led to a steady increase in the number of cases, which has consequently extended the duration of the proceedings. the situation in which the general court found itself is structural in its increase in the number and type of legislative and regulatory acts of the institutions, bodies, offices and agencies of the european union and in the scope and complexity of the cases, in particular those relating to competition and state aid. the court of justice of the european union has consistently held that the right to a fair hearing is not an absolute right, but a fundamental right, and that the right to a fair hearing is not a fundamental right, but a fundamental right, and that the right to a fair hearing is not a fundamental right, but a fundamental right, and that the right to a fair hearing is not a fundamental right, but a fundamental right. the court of justice has also established that the principle of proportionality is not applicable to the appointment of judges of the european court of justice. the appointment of additional judges should be based on the principle of proportionality, taking into account the need to ensure that the number of judges appointed is limited to the number of judges who are not members of the court of justice. the president of the tribunal shall be the judge-rapporteur.
written. - the jurisdiction of the court of justice of the european union has been extended and the number of cases before the general court has been steadily increasing. the number and types of legislative and regulatory acts, in particular those relating to competition and state aid, have increased. the logical consequence of this is an extension of the duration of the proceedings before the court. the commission has not received any comments from interested parties on the application of the contested decision. that's why i endorsed this report. i consider that this is the best way of dealing with the court's overcrowding problem, which is also provided for in the treaties. the european parliament and the council have agreed to the appointment of a new judge to the court of justice of the european union.
written. - the role of the court of justice of the european union is to interpret eu law so that it applies equally in all member states. it also involves the settlement of legal disputes between member state governments and eu institutions. in recent years, the number of cases before the general court has steadily increased. as of the end of 2012, 1,237 court cases were pending and the duration of proceedings was being extended. the above data indicate a strong need to amend the statute in order to enable the court of justice to fully carry out its duties. i therefore support the amendments to the protocol on the statute of the court of justice of the european union and the report by mrs thein on the number of judges in the general court. i agree with my colleague that appropriate measures should be taken to improve the current situation. the increase in the number of judges would contribute to that objective and would give positive results in the short term. under the amended article, the general court would consist of 28 judges, that is, one judge from each member state and 12 additional judges. each member state should have a maximum of two judges. the president of the tribunal shall be appointed by the president of the republic, acting by a majority of three-fourths of the votes cast.
written. - the european court of justice is dealing with an increasing number of cases, in line with the increasing power of the union institutions. in parallel, the number of open cases is increasing, while structural reforms are expected to make only minor improvements. this commission act proposes to the european parliament to confirm the appointment of an additional 12 judges to the european court of justice, who will be appointed on the basis of merit, with a rotation system which will ensure that no member state of the union has more than two judges at any one time in this institution. the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the new rules on the selection of judges. the european parliament has given its green light to the proposal that member states themselves select the competent judges for these positions, but no solution has yet been agreed. nevertheless, the proposal has been put on the agenda of the european parliament, which i consider to be scandalous and unacceptable. i believe that the precise criteria, which respect the diversity of the legal systems of the union, should have been clearly defined before the first stage of voting in parliament. consensus on this is necessary to maintain the trust of union citizens in its institutions. that is why i voted against the motion as it stands.
madam president, i supported mr de backer's report because the system is needed, the technology is needed, common european standards have been set and the benefits for all drivers and rescue services will be great. the ecall call is a telecommunications service and an electronic safety system that is installed in vehicles and that, by means of satellite technology, automatically alerts emergency services by means of an emergency electronic call to 112 and informs them of the location of serious road traffic accidents immediately after the airbag sensor has detected the accident. the system can also be activated by manually pressing a special key in the car, and then it automatically transmits information about the time and place of the accident to the nearest emergency service. the implementation of the ecall system would reduce the number of road accidents and the start of the implementation of this system started in 2005. the analysis has shown that the system is very fast, reduces arrival times and service costs, and in order to ensure continuity of service throughout the union and reduce the implementation costs for the union as a whole, it is necessary for all member states to prioritise the ecall system in accordance with the common implementation mode.
written. - this report deals with technical proposals and standards for the introduction of e-call throughout the european union. vehicles equipped with an ecall in case of an accident will automatically call the emergency number, most commonly 112. the commission will also be able to use the e-invoicing system to provide the public with information on the e-invoicing system. the signals sent by the ecall equipment shall contain only the data necessary to initiate the rescue action and shall not be used for any possible tracking of the vehicle. furthermore, the establishment of the call will be free of charge for the users. it is estimated that the automatic call will reduce response time by 60[nbsp]% within the settlement and 50[nbsp]% outside the settlement. in addition to saving lives, e-call services will allow better management of traffic at the accident site and thus prevent possible secondary accidents. i support this proposal and hope that when it is first revised we will be able to deal with the increased statistics of lives saved.
written. - in the member states of the european union, there are 30 000 road fatalities a year, of which up to 10%[nbsp ] could be prevented by the introduction of an interoperable e-call system. this important way of ensuring road safety, using the latest available technology, has proved to be extremely effective. i also think we should bear in mind that the crisis has reduced the ability of citizens to pay, and that this is a matter of basic road safety, not luxury, and that citizens should be relieved of the additional cost of financing the introduction of e-calling in their personal vehicles. it is also important to ensure the protection of the privacy of the data transmitted by this system, such as vehicle geolocation data. i agree with the need for a campaign to raise awareness among citizens about the way this system works and with this in mind i would like to proudly highlight the special award of the european emergency number association, which was awarded to the republic of croatia last year in riga for the work of our institutions on the promotion and improvement of the e-call system.
written. - i consider the report to be an extremely positive example of the union's potential added value, as the subject matter it deals with could not, unfortunately, be realised more effectively at national, regional or local level. as a representative of croatia, the new member state of the union, which is already continuously recording dramatic statistics on roads, i have nothing but praise for this report. the ecall system is an absolutely innovative and useful concept that could save millions of lives in the future, both on croatian and european roads. the commission estimates that ecall can speed up the arrival time of emergency services by 40% in urban areas and by 50% in rural areas. so i wholeheartedly supported this proposal.
madam president, the digital economy, with its speed of change, innovation and reach, is taking the integration of the single market to a whole new level. i support this proposal because information and communication technologies are at the heart of the digital society and today account for approximately 20% of europe's annual productivity growth and 4.5% of european gdp. they also generate over 25% of private investment in r&d and as such can make a significant contribution to employment and economic growth. this directive aims to establish minimum rights and obligations at union level in order to facilitate the deployment of high-speed electronic communications networks. the additional objective is to promote openness and effective competition in the area of network services, and digital infrastructure improves all sectors of the economy and is of great importance for social and territorial connectivity. the cost reduction through the introduction of high-speed electronic communications networks would significantly contribute to the digitalisation of the public sector, i.e. to the provision of more efficient services to citizens, but also to the reduction of public administration costs. the accelerated development of technology would also lead to an increase in demand for these services, and it is for these reasons that i believe that both the business and private sectors must be given the opportunity to be part of the digital economy.
written. - the aim of this directive is to reduce the cost of broadband internet services in the european union. apart from the service provider and the telecoms, the end users will be the ones who will benefit most from the new rules and that is why we need to support this proposal. high-quality digital infrastructure is now the foundation of almost all sectors of the modern and innovative economy and society as a whole. in addition, the quality and speed of the transmission of information are essential for the union's common market. this directive will create conditions for the construction and upgrade of the ground infrastructure needed for high-speed internet at lower cost, remove administrative barriers and facilitate the sharing of existing infrastructure. the new rules are in line with the principle of subsidiarity, as action at eu level is necessary given the fact that, in this case, it is more effective than measures at national, regional and local level.
written. - i believe that reducing the cost of deploying high-speed electronic communications networks has the potential to boost the development of all sectors of a modern and innovative society and to increase the efficiency of all economic sectors in the internal market. i therefore support the adoption of this regulation (i.e. the directive as the amendment calls for a change of the type of act). i also support the reduction of costs in jointly executing the construction works for the deployment of broadband internet infrastructure, which accounts for up to 80% of the total costs. of course, we must understand that infrastructure is only one link in a chain whose effect will be as effective as it is in synergy with the other elements of the telecommunications sector, but it is also clear that this is a step in the right direction towards high-speed cross-border broadband services and services.
the commission should also be able to use the information and communication technologies to support the development of the digital society, in particular by supporting the development of the information society and the digital economy. i supported this report as reducing the cost of deploying high-speed electronic communications networks would contribute to achieving the digitalisation of the public sector by enabling, in addition to reducing the costs of public administration and providing more efficient services to citizens, the impact of the digital financial lever on all sectors of the economy.
written. - transport by river and canal is also an energy efficient way of transporting goods. it plays a key role in the transport of goods from european busy seaports to their final destination. however, the potential of this mode of transport is not fully exploited. the purpose of this report is to improve the efficiency of the use of the naiades ii funds. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the power to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu in order to amend the rules on the application of the principle of proportionality. the funds collected from the national shipping operators were earmarked for social and occupational safety issues, but as we see, they could not be spent so far. the changes will allow the accumulated money to be spent on fleet modernisation, i.e. measures to encourage the use of innovation and new technologies on board vessels.
written. - i supported the report by mrs wortmann-kool on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 718/1999 on a community policy on fleet capacity aimed at promoting inland waterway transport. this proposal for a regulation is part of the naiades ii programme which ensures the use of the financial resources - the reserve funds - brought about by this regulation which have accumulated over the years and have reached eur 35 million. furthermore, i believe that the use of financial instruments such as horizon 2020 and the connecting europe facility should be made possible to ensure the integration of the inland waterway transport sector into multimodal transport. the inland waterway sector is characterised by its reliance on small and medium-sized enterprises, i.e. vessel owners who work and live with their families on board vessels. they are also one of the particularly vulnerable groups during the crisis and it is therefore essential to provide them with assistance and support and to continue to work on strengthening the inland waterway sector. the establishment of international waterways is of particular importance for croatia in order to further integrate river transport into intermodal logistics chains and to increase the reliability and accessibility of navigation.
written. - i support this report. research and innovation must be encouraged by the commission and the member states in the inland waterway transport sector and in the area of port infrastructure. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council. the commission should be able to request the member states to provide additional information on the implementation of the measures referred to in paragraph 1 in the light of the experience gained in the implementation of the measures referred to in paragraph 1. furthermore, it is also necessary to propose ways of reinforcing the reserve funds with the existing funds and financial instruments of the european investment bank. the reserve funds must also be used to enhance the multiplier effect of grants financed from the union budget and the same effect of the european investment bank's financial instruments for measures supporting innovation in the field of vessels, including the development of vessels adapted to river navigation, and their adaptation to technical progress essential for the preservation of the environment and the reduction of pollution as a whole. the strengthening of the reserve funds was encouraged by the commission itself, which prescribes the upgrading of existing funds and their development in several directions.
written. - i support the proposal to use financial instruments from existing union funds, such as the connecting europe facility and horizon 2020, to help workers who want to leave the inland waterway sector or retrain for jobs in another sector, together with measures to encourage the creation of groups of companies, improve working skills and promote the adaptation of vessels to technical progress, in particular in terms of environmentally friendly vessels. the reserve funds provided for in regulation (ec) no 718/1999 should be used for measures relating to the transport owners and the dedicated funds already existing at union level to support joint activities of the social partners.
written. - the processing of agricultural products is the second largest industry in the eu. it employs 48 million people and weighs in at 750 billion euros a year. the eu is among the world's largest importers and exporters of food. research shows that europeans are very concerned about the quality of their products. they have extremely high expectations about the quality of products like milk, meat and other foods that we use every day. these are the foods we import and export the most. according to a eurobarometer survey, more than 50% of europeans are willing to pay a higher price for a product that is properly labelled. it is therefore essential to ensure the quality of food labelling within the eu, but also in third countries. the aim of this report is to recognise the quality of eu products, thereby increasing exports and ensuring the necessary criteria for safe import of agricultural products.
written. - i supported the report by mrs esther herranz garcia on agricultural products on the internal market and in third countries, as i believe that the sector needs to strengthen competitiveness by promoting and informing consumers more effectively about products of origin on the internal market and in third countries. we can inform consumers by carrying out various information and advertising campaigns and by promoting the development of new products on the market. the aim is to increase exports to third countries and to achieve a large market share, but this can also lead to difficulties in the case of counterfeiting and imitation of european products. i think we need to protect them by increasing authenticity. the commission has also identified a number of other areas where the use of the logo is likely to be affected by the increase in the number of products that are protected by the pdo.
written. - i have a positive opinion of the report. the commission therefore concluded that the union industry was not able to benefit from the measures in force and that the union industry was not able to benefit from the measures in force. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules. it is also important to indicate the name of the manufacturer and the origin of the product in detail on the products. the products of established producers placed alongside those of lesser-known producers can have a positive effect on them by making them more recognisable to final consumers and thus more representative. the commission considers that the measures in question are not imputable to the state and that the commission should therefore be able to impose a definitive anti-dumping duty on imports of the product concerned originating in the prc. finally, i also consider the inclusion of quality wine in the list of products requiring special attention to be acceptable because of the potential significant contribution of the republic of croatia, which is quite well known for this particular product and its long-standing production and tradition.
written. - this commission proposal complements existing measures to promote agricultural products, both on the internal market of the union and on the market of third countries. the commission's original proposal included a significant increase in the financial contribution to the promotion of high-quality union agricultural products, of up to eur 200 million per year, with a primary focus on external markets, and the removal of the option for the national governments of the member states of the union to co-finance those projects. the commission has also proposed to the council that the union should be able to provide the union with a financial contribution from the european union to the european food safety authority (efsa) to cover the costs of the emergency fund. the commission notes that the measures proposed by the french authorities do not constitute state aid within the meaning of article 107 (1) of the treaty. since i'm not happy with the outcome of the trials, i voted against it.
written. - i agree that finding solutions to active and healthy ageing and demographic change is one of the important challenges facing the european union today. the objective of the research and development programme in the field of active and supported living is to improve the quality of life of older people, their carers and to increase the sustainability of the care system by improving the availability of ict-based products and services for active and healthy ageing. i support the report by mrs turmes because i believe that innovative solutions will make a significant contribution to achieving the goal of two additional years of healthy life by 2020, improving the quality of life of citizens without discrimination on the basis of age, gender, ethnicity, disability, religion or sexual orientation and improving the efficiency of the care system in the union. it is important to note that the programme can help older people to adapt their lifestyle, health management and working environment to ageing in order to be able to participate in the economy, society and live at home for longer. i also welcome the promotion of gender equality and the gender dimension in research and innovation.
written. - i have a positive opinion of the report. the programme covers funding from 2008 to 2013 with the specific objective of improving the quality of life of older people. the programme itself is funded by the commission and the 22 partner countries in the joint project. the idea of improving the quality of life of older people lies in the potential of using new information and communication technologies, and the results obtained from the activities carried out so far can be characterised as satisfactory for the commission itself, which is why it considers that the programme should be continued. we are all sensitive to these and similar delicate issues, which indicates a high level of awareness among the union's citizens, and thus makes the member states a better and better place to live and prosper. it is estimated that as many as 20 million people across the union are employed in 'white-collar' jobs in the health and social services sector. as it can be concluded with fairly high confidence that the population will age in the coming years, it is to be expected that the number of people employed in this sector will also increase. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the prevention of and fight against fraud, corruption and any other illegal activities, including through the use of the european anti-fraud office (olaf).
written. - the aal active and assisted living r&d programme contributes to the implementation of the european innovation partnership for active and healthy ageing and focuses on applied research and innovation that is close to the market and complements the related long-term research and innovation activities envisaged by the horizon 2020 framework programme. i supported the aal programme which should build on the achievements of the previous programme and address its shortcomings by ensuring a high level of user involvement in all projects from the start, thereby ensuring that the solutions developed are acceptable and meet specific needs. the activities should also respect ethical principles and relevant national legislation.
written. - i welcome and support this decision because i believe it is crucial to support small and medium-sized research enterprises by co-financing their market-oriented research projects, regardless of the field, which this proposal and programme makes possible. the amount of assigned revenue in accordance with article 21 (3) of the financial regulation is estimated at eur 100000. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 264 concerning the establishment of a european data protection supervisor. the commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of article 107 (3) (c) of the treaty.
written. - the horizon 2020 research and innovation programme (2014-2020) aims to have a stronger impact on research and innovation by developing closer synergies, increasing coordination and avoiding unnecessary duplication with international, national and regional research programmes. the programme presents packages of proposals as a means of implementation. the commission will continue to support the development of the european research area (era) and the european research area (era) in the context of the european research area (era) and the european research area (era) in the context of the european research area (era). i am very pleased that the need to help small and medium-sized enterprises in the union has been recognised. the commission therefore concluded that the union industry suffered material injury within the meaning of article 3 (5) of the basic regulation. they provide two out of three private sector jobs and account for more than half of the total value added generated by businesses in the eu. unlike large corporations, which have significant amounts of money and have surplus r&d resources, smes are increasingly vulnerable to a lack of resources to invest in r&d. this is where the union comes in, which would co-finance them to keep up with the big corporations. finally, the preservation of jobs for union citizens should be a priority.
written. - i supported the report by mr ransdorf on the union's participation in a research and development programme jointly launched by several member states. the objective of the programme is to support small and medium-sized enterprises carrying out research. smes account for 99% of all businesses in the eu, or about 21 million. they provide employment for some 133 million people, and 9 out of 10 smes are micro-enterprises with fewer than 10 employees. the objective of horizon 2020 and cosme is to support smes and make them more accessible to finance and increase their competitiveness in research and innovation. the objective of the 2014-2020 'horizon 2020' programme is to create a better and more comprehensive system of support for research and innovation activities of smes and to encourage the participation of smes in the programme through a new 'special instrument for smes' which will seek to fill the gaps in funding for high-risk initial research and innovation by smes. the commission considers that the cosme programme could help 39 000 companies to create or maintain 29 500 jobs and to introduce 900 new products, services or processes per year. the amount of assigned revenue in accordance with article 21 (3) of the financial regulation is estimated at eur 100000.
written. - following the success of the previous programme, an enhanced partnership with eureco is proposed, involving greater financial contributions from the union than before. the objective, which i support, is to support small and medium-sized enterprises engaged in r&d by co-financing their market-oriented research projects, irrespective of the field. this appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the european schools for the period 2014-2020 (article 21 of the financial regulation). the amount of assigned revenue in accordance with article 21 (3) of the financial regulation is estimated at eur 100000. a eureka member state or a country not associated to horizon 2020 may become a partner country of eurostars 2 if it fulfils the prerequisites, which will contribute to the quality and diversity of research. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eurostars programme and will continue to monitor the implementation of the eurostars programme.
written. - i welcome the proposal to continue the eurostars programme in the next period, as it has fulfilled its objectives from previous years and created added value for european research smes. the amount of assigned revenue in accordance with article 21 (3) of the financial regulation is estimated at eur 100000. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the establishment of a european data protection supervisor. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and to monitor the implementation of the new rules and the implementation of the new rules.
written. - the european programme for research and innovation in metrology (empir), which will replace the empr, will enable european metrology institutes, industry organisations and the academic community to cooperate on joint research projects in the field of metrology. the emir shall promote capacity building activities in the field of metrology at different technological levels in order to achieve a balanced and integrated metrology system in the participating states, enabling them to develop their scientific and technical capabilities in metrology. the union's financial contribution to empir shall be limited to eur 285 million. the implementation structure is necessary for the joint implementation of the empir programme. the participating states agreed on the implementation structure for the empr programme and in 2007 established euramet, a european regional metrology organisation and a non-profit association under german law. the tasks and obligations of euramet shall cover the wider european and global harmonisation of metrology. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council. since, according to the interim evaluation report of the emrp programme, the euramet governance structure has proven to be efficient and of high quality in the implementation of the emrp programme, euramet should also be used in the implementation of the empir programme.
written. - i have a positive opinion of the report. the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the measures taken by the member states on the union's energy supply and demand, in particular by examining the impact of the measures taken by the member states on the union's energy supply and demand. the programme itself, which started in 2014, is co-financed by the european union and the participating countries to an estimated amount of eur 200 million. the commission also has a positive opinion and is ready to extend the programme until 2020, increasing the total budget to as much as eur 300 million. it is important to note that the programme is fully aligned with the europe 2020 objectives and has a stronger focus on innovation and industrial application, a completely new support for standardisation and, in particular, capacity building and linkages with other sources of funding, such as the structural funds, in order to support participating states with incomplete measurement systems and to enable the overcoming of shortcomings compared to established measurement systems.
written. - measurement, the science of measurement, occupies a central place in our high-tech world. increasingly precise, reliable measurements are essential to foster innovation and economic growth in our knowledge-based economy. the european measurement research and innovation programme (empir) would build on the success of the emrp programme by implementing more ambitious and inclusive initiatives based on article 185 and aligned with the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. the improvement over the emrp consists of a stronger focus on innovation and industrial application, a completely new support for standardisation and a specific strengthening of capacity and linkages with other sources of funding, such as the structural funds, to support and enable participating states with incomplete or developing measurement systems to bridge the gap with established measurement systems.
written. - the future role, design and functioning of public-private and public-public partnerships were the subject of intense debate during the negotiations on horizon 2020. the european commission presented the jpp and jpa packages in october 2013 as the main tools for implementing horizon 2020 and delivering growth and innovation in europe. the research priorities of the european and developing countries partnership programme in the field of clinical trials should be the control and eradication of poverty-related diseases. the edctp2 programme will also serve to strengthen and develop clinical trials in developing countries, in particular in sub-saharan africa. i support this report because diseases and epidemics know no national boundaries and any investment in medicine in third countries must be considered as an investment in the union.
the european union plays an important role in the field of global health. almost half of the funding for the global fund to fight aids, tuberculosis and malaria is provided by member states and the european commission. also, their share of the world's investment in research on poverty-related diseases and neglected infectious diseases is 22%. the main obstacle to sustainable development in developing countries is poverty-related diseases, which represent a social and economic burden. it is important to note that those diseases also pose risks to the citizens of europe in view of migratory movements and global mobility. it is therefore necessary to accelerate the clinical development of effective, safe, accessible, appropriate and financially affordable medical interventions for poverty-related and neglected diseases tailored to the specific needs and circumstances of developing countries. i support the report on the european and developing countries' partnership programme in the field of clinical trials. i agree that there is a need to strengthen and expand cooperation with public and private partners to reduce the social and economic burden of poverty-related diseases in developing countries.
written. - i have a positive opinion of the report. since the establishment of the first partnership in 2003, as a result of the global health crisis caused by three poverty-related diseases (hiv/aids, malaria and tuberculosis), work has been underway to regulate the issues relevant to the observed problem. first, we must act to curb the social and economic burden of poverty in developing countries, particularly in sub-saharan africa, by accelerating the development of effective, safe and affordable medical treatment for all individuals in need. it's also important to note that only 10 percent of the world's research funds are allocated to diseases that account for 90 percent of all the world's pathologies. the union's contribution to the financing of research and innovation programmes is estimated at eur 10000000000. the european union is an important player in the research of poverty-related diseases and neglected communicable diseases. the commission and the member states provide almost a quarter (22[nbsp ]%) of the world's government investment in this area. the commission also contributed almost half of the resources for the global fund to fight aids, tuberculosis and malaria.
written. - effective, safe, appropriate, affordable and cost-effective treatment of most poverty-related diseases tailored to the specificities of developing countries, particularly in sub-saharan africa, still does not exist, and investment in clinical trials remains insufficient because clinical trials are expensive and the return on investment due to market failures is limited. accordingly, i supported this decision as it will contribute to reducing the social and economic burden of poverty-related diseases in developing countries, accelerating the clinical development of effective, safe, accessible, appropriate and affordable medical interventions for poverty-related and neglected diseases tailored to the specific needs and circumstances of developing countries.
written. - the principle of mutual recognition of judgments is the basis of judicial cooperation in civil matters. the programme of measures for the implementation of the principle of mutual recognition of decisions in civil and commercial matters provides for the establishment of safeguard measures at european level, as well as the improvement of measures for the confiscation of bank accounts, for example by establishing a european system for the confiscation of bank accounts. national procedures for securing safeguard measures, such as account freezing orders, exist in all member states, but the conditions for issuing the measure and the effectiveness of its implementation vary considerably. moreover, the use of national safeguard measures in cases with cross-border effects is complex, time-consuming and costly, in particular where a creditor wishes to freeze several accounts in different member states. the european procedure allowing a creditor to freeze the bank accounts of his debtor in cases with cross-border effects in a simple, rapid and cost-effective manner should correct the shortcomings of the existing situation. the obligation to freeze funds should be imposed on the debtor in accordance with the principle of proportionality.
written. - i supported the report by my colleague raffaele baldassare on the european account freezing order. small and medium-sized enterprises account for 99%[nbsp] of the business of eu enterprises. some eur 600 million is lost annually in debt write-offs because it is too expensive for companies or citizens to bring legal proceedings in other eu member states. the conditions for issuing freezing orders under national law vary from one member state to another. i consider that the main advantages of the european order are the possibility to issue an order to freeze debtor accounts and to collect information on debtor accounts in other eu member states under the same conditions as in the home member state and the fact that the debtor does not have to be notified in advance of the procedure for freezing funds. the commission has not received any comments from interested parties. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the amount of the fine imposed on the applicant by the court of justice of the european union. the number of citizens with blocked bank accounts in croatia was 300 thousand, or more than 24 million kn, on 31 december 2013. the commission has also received comments from the croatian authorities, which have not provided any information on the amount of the fine.
written. - figures show that european companies lose around 2.6% of their turnover every year due to non-payable receivables. the commission has also concluded that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of article 107 (3) (c) of the treaty. this data calls for action, especially in the context of the fact that it is mostly small and medium-sized enterprises that are the backbone of the union's economy. the european account preservation order is therefore a creditor protection mechanism that allows creditors to prevent the withdrawal or transfer of funds held in the debtor's bank account within the union. until the court makes its ruling, the money must be kept where it is. the execution of an order provides certainty to traders and confidence in trade on the market of the member states. it is important to emphasise that the order is also applicable to claims in civil proceedings, thereby institutionally protecting eu citizens and providing them with certainty in the recovery of the money owed. the application must, of course, be well founded, that is to say, the competent national court must find that the claimant's claims are well founded.
written. - the rapporteur deals with the highly relevant subject of the european account freezing order, the civil law mechanism used to recover debts. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the measure is compatible with the internal market. within individual member states, this mechanism is often used, however, an equivalent european mechanism does not yet exist and as a consequence, creditors often face difficulties in recovering money owed, as they are often faced with schemes different from those active in their member state. in this sense, the european account freezing order would be active alongside national equivalents and would be used for cross-border purposes as a cost-cutting measure. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the mechanism is effective in ensuring that the debtor is able to pay its debt in full. the commission has also taken into account the fact that the commission has not yet adopted a decision on the compatibility of the aid with the internal market. i'm also concerned about the status of the social dimension of debt collection. that is why i abstained.
written. - sustainability reporting is indeed a key step towards achieving a sustainable world economy by linking long-term profitability with social justice and environmental protection. sustainability reporting helps measure, monitor and manage the performance of a company and has a positive impact on society. the disclosure of non-financial data improves the corporate governance system and internal policy, thereby reducing negative impacts on society, the environment and human rights. companies that properly analyse and publish non-financial data increase their competitiveness and reduce costs, have easier access to capital, improve their performance in financial markets, and achieve greater stability and reduce the potential for harm. in order to increase the consistency and comparability of non-financial data, undertakings should be obliged to include in their management reports non-financial data containing information on the impact of activities relating to environmental, employee, human rights, anti-money laundering and anti-corruption issues.
written. - i supported this report primarily because of its social component, taking into account social issues and employment - the fundamental guidelines and the main aspect of the social democratic policy which is correct and which as such cannot be ignored. finally, it is also useful for companies and groups to include in their non-financial statements aspects relating to environmental protection, social aspects, employment policies that include people with additional needs, gender equality and respect for human rights, as well as issues of corruption and bribery and measures to combat these phenomena. the commission has also received comments from the member states and the commission on the application of the principle of proportionality. it is also useful because it can ultimately result in additional investment being directed towards enterprises with high social standards.
written. - entrepreneurs have an impact on the environment and society. so i think we should publish sustainability reports alongside financial reports, which are now fairly transparent. this step is indeed crucial to managing change and achieving a sustainable world economy by linking long-term profitability with social justice and environmental protection. sustainability reporting helps measure, monitor and manage the company's performance and the impact it has on society. business owners should act responsibly and bear the consequences of their actions. however, it is estimated that only a small number of companies in the union, 2 500 out of 42 000, regularly disclose non-financial information. the quality of this information is also unsatisfactory and varies widely. the commission's proposal is contained in two key elements, firstly as including non-financial information in its reports when they relate to environmental and social issues, and to issues of respect for human rights, bribery and corruption. the second part of the proposal is to provide information on the diversity policy of the company, including aspects related to age, gender and geographical diversity and educational and professional experience of corporate governance. i support this proposal as it is a first and important step towards non-financial reporting.
written. - i support this report. i believe that companies with more than 500 employees should be able to disclose all relevant non-financial and miscellaneous information, thereby ensuring a level playing field throughout the european union. the commission is striving to achieve a comparable level of transparency of social and environmental information provided by businesses to their sectors across all member states to ensure the conditions through the single market act twelve actions to stimulate growth and strengthen confidence: working together to create new growth. the commission considers that the disclosure of non-financial information is necessary to ensure that the disclosure of non-financial information is not used to further the objectives of the union's financial interests. in addition, all those companies that properly analyse and publish non-financial data increase their competitiveness and reduce costs, have easier access to capital, improve their performance in financial markets and reduce the possibility of damage and adverse effects.
written. - i voted against the proposal for a directive on the disclosure of non-financial and other information by large companies and groups because, although it introduces the necessary level of flexibility in the application of the obligation to disclose non-financial information and takes into account the possible harmful consequences of disclosing non-financial information for the market position of the company, it is unfortunately marked by unnecessary ideological factors. in particular, i oppose the introduction of an obligation that the report must contain a description of the diversity policy of the company for its administrative, management and supervisory bodies with regard to gender and other aspects such as age, disability, ethnic origin, education and professional profile, the objectives of the diversity policy, the way it has been implemented and the results in the reporting period; if the company does not implement such policy, the report shall contain a justification for this. i believe that in its personnel policy, a company should be guided solely by the expertise and ability of its personnel and not by other circumstances marked by ideology that have no place in a healthy and rational business environment.
written. - the eu must develop a common immigration policy aimed at managing migration flows effectively and treating third-country nationals legally resident in the member states fairly. the import of labour can contribute to increasing competitiveness and economic vitality. a flexible immigration policy will make a significant contribution to the eu's economic development and success in the long term, in the context of the significant demographic challenges facing the union in the future. it is therefore necessary to adopt measures relating to the conditions of entry and residence, as well as the standards of the member states for issuing long-stay visas and residence permits, and to define the rights of third-country nationals legally residing in one member state, including the conditions governing freedom of movement and residence in other member states. the purpose of this directive is to facilitate intra-eu mobility for intra-corporate transferees and to reduce the administrative burden associated with employment. this directive should apply without prejudice to the principle of the empowerment of union citizens with regard to access to the labour market of the member states.
written. - i have a positive opinion of the report. in view of the results of the globalisation of business, the migration of managers and technical staff of branches of multinational companies and the temporary relocations of all other business units, all activities related to these issues have become of great importance over the years. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the measures in question are imputable to the state. the commission has also taken into account the fact that the union's external borders are not clearly defined, and that the union's external borders are not clearly defined. the member state should recognise professional qualifications acquired by a third-country national in another member state in the same way as those of a union citizen and should also take into account qualifications acquired in a third country in accordance with the regulations relevant for the recognition of professional qualifications. in short, it is well known that the european union is founded on four fundamental freedoms, and it is clear that no freedom should be obstructed. freedom of movement of people as one of these freedoms is the foundation of the new social order which i absolutely support because only through synergy and close cooperation can we achieve sustainable development, both at the level of the member states and at the level of the european union as a whole.
written. - in recent years, the globalisation of business, increased trade and the growth and expansion of multinational corporations have increased the importance of the mobility of executives, experts and trainees, who are temporarily transferred from branches and subsidiaries of multinational enterprises to other business units for short-term assignments. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 concerning the definition of the concept of 'originating products' and the definition of the concept of 'originating products' and the definition of the concept of 'originating products' in accordance with article 10 of regulation (eu) no 1308/2013. facilitating intra-corporate mobility allows multinational groups to make the best use of their own human resources. the purpose of this directive is to establish a uniform procedure for the reception of third-country nationals from outside the eu who request a temporary transfer from a company established outside the eu. the third-country national shall be entitled to receive a visa when he or she is in the territory of the member state of the third-country national's residence. to that end, i supported this directive and the establishment of a specific intra-eu mobility programme, which allows the holder of an intra-corporate transferee permit issued by a member state to enter, reside and work in one or more member states in accordance with the provisions governing short-term and long-term mobility. member states should ensure that appropriate checks and effective inspections are carried out to ensure the proper implementation of this directive.
the clean sky joint undertaking shall fulfil its objectives of encouraging new research in the framework of a public-private partnership that allows for long-term cooperation between european aeronautics stakeholders. the provisional evaluation of the clean sky joint undertaking has shown that it is successful in promoting development towards environmental objectives. this has led to new forms of cooperation and the involvement of new organisations. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the conditions for the participation of third countries in the work of the european external action service. in this context, obstacles to the participation of new participants in the programme should be identified and addressed. the clean sky 2 joint undertaking should provide continued support to the clean sky research programme by implementing the remaining activities planned under the research programme. in order to help bridge the gap between research and innovation in europe, complementarity and close synergies with the structural funds need to be developed. the maximum contribution from the union to the administrative and operational costs of the clean sky 2 joint undertaking shall be eur 1,71 billion. the contribution shall be paid from appropriations in the general budget of the union allocated to the specific programme horizon 2020.
written. - i support a proposal that will help further the progress of this company. the clean sky joint undertaking shall fulfil its objectives of encouraging new research in the framework of a public-private partnership that allows for long-term cooperation between stakeholders in the european aeronautics sector. the commission has also received comments from the united kingdom and the united states on the application of the met/it guidelines. the interim evaluation of the clean sky joint undertaking has shown that it is successfully driving development towards environmental objectives, leading to new forms of cooperation and involvement of new organisations. its field of research should therefore continue to be supported in order to achieve its objectives. in order to close the gap between research and innovation in europe, a good link with the structural funds needs to be developed. where possible, the interoperability of those two instruments should be promoted. cumulative or combined financing should also be encouraged. the aim of the measures should be to encourage the full exploitation of the potential of talented and skilled people in the european union and thus to improve the economic and social impact of research and innovation, and to differentiate but at the same time complement the policy and action of the cohesion policy funds. the clean sky 2 joint undertaking shall cooperate fully with the institutions involved in the discharge procedure and shall provide, as appropriate, any additional information required.
written. - recognising the growing challenges, the high level group on aeronautics research drew up in 2011 a new vision for the european aviation sector - 'air travel 2050' - which follows the objectives of the europe 2020 programme and the white paper on transport in agreement with the most important public and private stakeholders in europe. i supported this regulation because it seeks to increase the impact on research and innovation by linking horizon 2020 and private sector funds in public-private partnerships in key areas where research and innovation can contribute to union objectives. the governance and operation of those partnerships should be open, transparent, effective and efficient and should allow for the participation of a wide range of actors active in specific areas of the partnership.
written. - i supported the report by my colleague lambert van nistelrooi on the creation of a joint venture for the bio-industry. the future of the company is to do business in a sustainable way. the energy and product production sector is dominated by petroleum products and other fossil fuel sources. to reduce this, the bioeconomy encourages the production of bio-products and biofuels that partly replace renewable sources. i agree with the strategy for implementing horizon 2020 for research and innovation in bio-based industries as it facilitates international business and the development of research needed to establish bio-based value chains. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, including the countries of the former soviet union, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe. the strong position of institutional public-private partnerships has the capacity to raise larger project funds, which facilitates the positioning of the bio-industry in the market. the implementation of horizon 2020 for the period 2014-2010 is eur 79,4 billion.
written. - the joint technology initiative on bio-based industries should reduce the market failures that discourage private investment in research and demonstration activities and the uptake of bio-based industries in europe. in particular, this should ensure the continued availability of reliable sources of sustainably produced biomass and support the development of advanced small-scale and large-scale processing technologies and demonstration activities. it is also important to take account of the operators in agriculture and agricultural areas. this would ensure lower risks for private investment in research and innovation in developing sustainable and competitive bio-based products and biofuels and allow for benefits to all stakeholders, including those from rural areas. the commission considers that the union industry is not in a position to meet the requirements of the union market. the joint undertaking's activities and opportunities should also include those outermost regions, as the common objective of the bio-industry initiative is to implement the research and innovation activities programme in europe. the bio-based industry is the backbone of the bioeconomy in terms of stimulating economic growth and job creation. the activities should be carried out through open and transparent cooperation among stakeholders along the entire value chains of the bio-based industry, including the primary manufacturing and processing industry, consumer brands, smes, research centres and universities.
written. - i supported the joint technology initiative on biotechnology, which should be a public-private partnership with the aim of increasing and scaling up investment in the development of a sustainable bio-industry sector in europe, as the bio-industry can make a significant contribution to achieving the goal of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth by 2020. it should provide environmental and socio-economic benefits for european citizens, increase europe's competitiveness and contribute to establishing europe as a key player in the research, demonstration and deployment of advanced bio-based products and biofuels. in order to maximise its impact, the bio-industry joint undertaking should develop close synergies with other union programmes in areas such as education, environment, competitiveness and smes, and with funds in the field of cohesion policy and rural development policy, which can in particular contribute to strengthening national and regional research and innovation capacities in the context of smart specialisation strategies.
written. - the single european sky air traffic management (sesar) research and development project is aimed at modernising air traffic management in europe. sesar is the technological pillar of the single european sky. the objective is to ensure a high-performance air traffic control infrastructure by 2030 that will enable the safe, environmentally friendly and energy-efficient development of air transport. the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the measures on the environment and the environment-related aspects of aviation. the joint undertaking should remain open and encourage the widest possible participation and representation of stakeholders from all member states, including small and medium-sized enterprises. furthermore, participation should ensure a good balance between airspace users, air navigation service providers, airports, military, professional staff and manufacturers and provide opportunities for small and medium-sized enterprises, academia and research organisations. horizon 2020 shall ensure the effective promotion of gender equality and the gender dimension in research and innovation. the evaluation committee should be a forum for the exchange of information and best practices between the member states and the commission.
written. - the joint undertaking should continue to be open to all and encourage the widest possible participation and representation of stakeholders from all member states, including smes, by joining new members or through other forms of participation. a good balance should be ensured between airspace users and air navigation service providers, airports, military, professional staff and manufacturers. the regulation aims to achieve a higher impact for research and innovation by combining private sector funding and resources in public-private partnerships in key areas where research and innovation can contribute to the union's wider objectives. partnerships should, including a balanced contribution from all partners, be accountable for the achievement of their objectives and contribute to the union's strategic objectives relating to research, development and innovation. partnerships and joint action should be open, transparent, effective and efficient. the union's involvement in those partnerships may take the form of financial contributions to the joint undertakings. the research and development project on single european sky air traffic management aims to modernise air traffic management. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the establishment of a european aviation safety agency. and work on regulating aircraft speeds, for energy efficiency, to reduce the impact of aviation on climate change.
written. - i supported the sesar project, which seeks to modernise air traffic management in europe and is the technological pillar of the single european sky. the objective of the union's 2030 framework is to provide a highly efficient air traffic control infrastructure that will enable the safe, environmentally sound and energy efficient development of air transport. the aim is also to integrate aircraft speed control, for energy efficiency, thereby reducing the impact of aviation on climate change.
written. - this public-private partnership proposal aims to create a new version of the innovative medicines initiative to be operated under the horizon 2020 framework programme. this proposal seeks to achieve a greater impact on research and innovation by using several instruments, including public-private partnerships in key areas where research and innovation can contribute to the union's wider competitiveness objectives, stimulate private investment and help address societal challenges. i believe that there is a need to improve the drug manufacturing process, to support more effective research and cooperation between the academic community, smes and the biopharmaceutical industry, in order to deliver better and safer medicines to patients, and that is why i support this proposal. the joint undertaking shall be responsible for the implementation of the union's policies and programmes in the field of education, training and youth. all our activities and the activities of this joint undertaking must lead us towards one goal, namely to improve the health and well-being of the citizens of the european union.
written. - the innovative medicines initiative (imi) is europe's largest public-private partnership aimed at improving the drug development process to support the development of better and safer medicines for patients. the imi supports scientific projects and builds networks of industrial and academic experts in europe that will drive innovation in healthcare. i supported the extension of the scope of imi to areas of life science research and innovation where added value was demonstrated. the area would be in the public health interest, in line with the world health organisation's report on priority medicines for europe and the world. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 concerning the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use (hereinafter 'the agency').
written. - electronic components and systems for european leadership (ecsel) is a partnership between the private and public sectors of electronic components and systems. ecsel will be operational from 2014, and will be implemented over a period of 10 years and will replace eniac and artemis in the field of nanoelectronics and embedded computing systems. in order to achieve its objectives, the ecsel joint undertaking should provide financial support, mainly in the form of grants to participants, on the basis of open and competitive calls for proposals, while aiming at a reduced administrative burden to facilitate access to financial support. the maximum contribution from the union to the administrative and operational costs of the ecsel joint undertaking shall be eur 1 154 492 250. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council. ecsel will ensure the supply of key technologies and innovations to all major sectors of the economy, and europe ensures independence in the field of electronic components and systems. cooperation will attract private investment and avoid duplication of effort. so europe will not pay twice for the same technology or innovation, developed in different member states.
the european union is committed to the development and strategic positioning of the european union on the world market and to competitiveness in research and development of new technologies which by their nature depend on electronic components. the establishment of the union as a key player in the field of microelectronics, nanoelectronics, embedded computing and systems will stimulate innovation, investment and ultimately the quality of life of the citizens of the european union. that's why i support the work of this joint venture. in doing so, it is important to align and coordinate its activities with those of horizon 2020 as part of the formal coordination procedure in order to ensure the desired degree of complementarity in order to maximise the impact of research activities.
written. - electronic components and systems, in addition to being an important industry with more than eur 1 trillion in global turnover, lead to improvements in productivity in the economy and play a key role in solving societal challenges, which is why i support this proposal. one of the main objectives of the horizon 2020 framework programme is to strengthen european industry through activities that support research and innovation through the industrial sector and enable the creation of public-private partnerships that will contribute to tackling the main challenges in europe. the joint undertaking shall contribute to the development of a strong and globally competitive electronic components and systems industry in the union, ensuring the availability of electronic components and systems for key markets while addressing societal challenges with the aim of maintaining europe's leadership in technological development, bridging the gap between research and application, enhancing innovation opportunities and achieving economic growth and employment growth in the union. research drives innovation in all areas of life and the right investment would provide further impetus to the europe 2020 objectives, contributing to both the development and sustainability of the eu economy.
written. - europe faces two major challenges in the field of electronic components and systems. the first is to gain control of key elements of the value chain that are essential to ensure the sustainability of value creation from electronic products in europe and the competitiveness of many other european industrial sectors. the second is to fill the gaps in europe's innovation chains and better convert research excellence into commercial success. in addressing the above challenges, europe must face strong global competition, the decline in the market share of its industry, high costs of research, development and innovation, and rapid technological development. in line with the above, i supported this initiative which will contribute to the development of a strong and globally competitive electronic components and systems industry in the union and ensure the availability of electronic components and systems for key markets by addressing societal challenges with the aim of keeping europe at the forefront of technological development and bridging the gap between research and application.
the joint undertaking will also be responsible for the implementation of the european union's energy union strategy for the period 2014-2020 and the implementation of the energy union strategy for the period 2014-2020. the aim is to accelerate the market uptake of these technologies because of their potential to create a carbon-free energy system. the joint undertaking for fuel cells and hydrogen is hereby established for the period until 31 december 2017. the joint undertaking should provide continuous support to the fuel cells and hydrogen research programme by implementing the remaining activities provided for in the research programme. in view of the overall objective of horizon 2020 to achieve simpler and more harmonised funding of the research and innovation sector at european level, different parallel rules and the associated additional administrative burden should be avoided. the fch 2 joint undertaking should be able to provide the necessary technical support to the fch 2 joint undertaking in order to ensure that the fch 2 joint undertaking is able to fulfil its mandate.
written. - this joint undertaking is an important instrument of the innovation investment package under horizon 2020. in view of its internal functioning, i believe that it should develop oversight mechanisms, but should also be given autonomy in terms of reducing unnecessary administration and better linkage with the union's structural funds and other funding programmes. this is particularly important given the greater role that the joint undertaking could play in the future of the european union, as hydrogen in its various applications can be a highly important factor in providing clean and green energy and in enhancing the competitiveness of the european union economy. the experience of the predecessor of this joint undertaking shows that it can also have a positive impact on important economic factors such as reducing unemployment and developing innovation at regional and local level, not only in energy but also in transport, science, heavy industry and many other sectors.
written. - one of the main objectives of the horizon 2020 framework programme is to strengthen european industry through activities that will support research and innovation through the industrial sector and enable the creation of public-private partnerships that will contribute to tackling the main challenges in europe. the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking should provide continuous support to the fuel cells and hydrogen research programme by implementing the remaining activities provided for in the fuel cells and hydrogen research programme on the basis of the rules of the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking. through research and innovation, this company will help increase private investment, strengthen competitiveness and help solve societal challenges, which is why i am voting for this proposal. in order to ensure the optimal use of available research funding, the transition from the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking to the fuel cells and hydrogen 2 joint undertaking should be aligned and synchronised with the transition from the seventh framework programme to horizon 2020. i also agree with the rapporteur's suggestion that measures should be taken to promote the participation of smes, universities and research centres.
written. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 264 concerning the establishment of the european data protection board. i supported this proposal which will enable support for the eu's policies on sustainable energy and transport, climate change, environment and industrial competitiveness as embodied in the europe 2020 growth strategy and help achieve the eu's main objective of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
madam president, in view of the effectiveness of the transparency register so far, it is certainly worth highlighting the progress made in the past two years of implementation. the commission notes that the information provided by the belgian authorities in the context of the investigation is not sufficient to establish that the belgian authorities have not provided any evidence that the belgian authorities have not provided sufficient evidence to support their claim that the belgian authorities have not provided any evidence that the belgian authorities have not provided sufficient evidence to support their claim. i agree with the rapporteur that, even today, two years after the establishment of the register, there is a need to work on improving its efficiency and quality, especially in relation to the submission of applications for registration and its supervision. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to provide for the registration of lobbyists in the member states. therefore, i support the rapporteur's view that active action is needed to create a new legal basis for the introduction of a mandatory register.
madam vice-president, i have supported the report by mr gualtieri on the conclusion of the interinstitutional agreement on the transparency register and i thank the commissioner and his fellow members who discussed the status of the register and the necessary amendments to the agreement in the working group. thanks to the treaty of lisbon and the european charter of fundamental rights, which further strengthen the right of access to information at the level of the european union, transparency has become a high priority for all institutions. the report by mr gualtieri is a step in the right direction, concluding that a mandatory register is the most effective way to continue to regulate lobbying. given that amendments are not possible in the context of the positive provisions of the treaty of lisbon, it is important that this report goes towards measures that the register will make almost mandatory. given that it is informally said that there are almost 15 000 lobbyists at the headquarters of the european institutions in brussels, while there are 6 458 registered lobbyists, i believe that this will lead to better regulation of lobbying with a view to equalising the influence of different interest groups.
written. - the transparency register offers citizens direct access to information on entities engaged in activities aimed at influencing the eu decision-making process, representing interests and investing funds to carry out these activities in one place. it is for this reason that, in order to fully protect citizens, i support a new clause in the draft agreement which calls for a mandatory register for all organisations and self-employed persons who wish to respect a certain code of conduct and participate in the 'game of rules'. in line with the opinion of my group, i therefore invite the commission to include new incentives for registration in the register, which would improve participation in meetings under the auspices of the transparency register and limit participation in events by non-registered organisations. i think that insisting on improving the transparency register is very important. the union institutions should be in constant communication with civil society organisations, non-governmental organisations, businesses, trade and professional associations, trade unions, think tanks, etc. in order to ensure that the union's financial interests are protected, the union should be able to support the union's financial interests by providing financial assistance to third countries, in particular through the european neighbourhood instrument (enpi).
written. - the establishment and operation of the register does not affect or prejudice the objectives of the european parliament as set out in its resolution of 8 may 2008 on the development of a framework for the activities of interest representatives (lobbyists) in the institutions of the european union and in its decision of 11 may 2011 on the conclusion of the interinstitutional agreement between the european parliament and the commission on a common transparency register. accordingly, i welcome the introduction of the transparency register and the fact that the council has been involved as an observer in the review process of the agreement of 23 june 2011 in order to ensure transparency at all stages of the legislative process at union level.
written. - the eu social partners supported the tripartite social summit for growth and jobs and called for a consistent consultation process with them in the context of the european semester. the tripartite social summit for growth and jobs is tasked with ensuring continuous coordination between the council, the commission and the social partners, as well as the coordination of their strategies for high-quality and sustainable employment. the summit shall meet at least twice a year. the social partners will be enabled to contribute to the various components of the union strategy for growth and jobs at european level through social dialogue and expertise. to this end, the summit relies on the work and discussions between the council, the commission and the social partners in the various coordination fora on economic, social and employment issues. if we are to emerge from the crisis and strengthen europe's social dimension, the involvement of the social partners in decision-making and in political debate, at a high level, is more important and necessary than ever before.
written. - i supported the interim report by my colleague örya on the trilateral social summit for growth and employment. the union has recognised the need for a stronger role of ownership by the social partners and their inclusion in the europe 2020 strategy, thus enabling the social partners to participate in the achievement of the strategic objectives. together with the member states, the eu has committed to cooperate within the europe 2020 strategy to strengthen the potential for growth and job creation by better aligning national and european policies. last spring's summit, entitled 'rebuilding confidence in europe: focusing on job creation, lessons learned and future directions', focused on exploring ways to rebuild citizens' confidence and boost economic recovery. the unemployment problem seems to have stabilized, but more than 26.8 million people looking for work are still unemployed. member states should focus on the quality of the measures and ensure appropriate financial support to the targeted young person. the eu decided last year to increase the budget of the 'youth employment initiative' in 2014 and 2015 to ensure faster mobilisation. parliament considered that social dialogue was a key element of the member states and called for the role of the trialogue to be strengthened at european level. in this regard, i support further efforts to achieve the europe 2020 objectives.
the tripartite social summit for growth and employment (tss) is a meeting of representatives of the social partners, the european commission and the european council, which takes place in the run-up to the spring and autumn council meetings. the meeting shall be organised with the aim of fostering a constructive dialogue between relevant actors in the field of employment and social issues on the themes of the european agenda for growth and jobs. the commission proposal seeks amendments to take account of the changes in the legal and institutional framework that have taken place in the union over the last decade. while i support holding that summit in the context of the 2020 strategy, which can be improved by those, i do not agree with the unnecessary calls to increase the union's power at the expense of the member states' competences in the field of employment and social affairs and therefore voted against.
madam vice-president, i thought that this report should be supported, because we saw that parliament, faced with the impossibility of amending the overall amounts of the multiannual financial framework decided by the european council, has focused on improving the implementation of that framework by successfully negotiating the inclusion of a number of key new provisions that will contribute to making the new financial framework and the annual budget of the european union more transparent, more functional and better adapted to the needs of the citizens of the union. the fiscal consolidation currently facing the member states of the union makes an ambitious agreement on the multiannual financial framework for the period 2014-2020 unrealistic. i agree with the rapporteur that the role of the european union budget as an important instrument for overcoming the current economic and social crisis is not recognised, and the budget is crucial because it offers a single framework for cooperation and strengthening national efforts to stimulate growth, strengthen competitiveness, create new jobs across the union, which is currently very necessary, not only for croatia but for all countries facing the crisis.
written. - it is necessary to distinguish the discussions on the multiannual financial framework (mff) from the discussions on the single legal basis of union policies, including cohesion policy, in view of the treaty provisions and the role of the european parliament in both procedures. i am concerned about the fact that the amount of unpaid bills at the end of the year is constantly increasing and i believe that the budget gaps are the ones that most affect cohesion policy. the effects of the backlog from 2007-2013 have not been addressed under the mff for the period 2014-2020. in line with the above, i voted against this report and therefore call for a revision of the mff in the interim to prepare for a possible reduction in the period agreed for the next mff in order to ensure further renegotiation during the mandate of parliament and the commission, which would ensure the full democratic legitimacy of the regular decisions on the financial perspective of the union, taking measures to ensure the stability needed for the programming cycles and the predictability of investments.
madam president, i thank the rapporteur, mrs \*in the republic of croatia, there are many workers who have worked for several months or years in other member states and who have waited a long time to become eligible for a pension when they retire. it can't happen naturally. systems have to be coordinated, because these people have earned their pensions and deserved to age with dignity, and they've faced the problem of realizing their acquired rights. that is why i welcome this directive.
he is seeking the presidency of the council. - i know . madam president, ladies and gentlemen, you understand how important it is for the greek presidency of the council, which attaches particular importance to cultural heritage, to take part in this debate on behalf of the council. the directive on the return of cultural objects unlawfully removed from the territory of a member state is an important tool in tackling the illicit trafficking of cultural objects, which is now one of the most widespread forms of organised crime. the 1993 directive did not, however, meet expectations. this is due to the short deadlines, the eligibility criteria, the level of compensation and the lack of administrative cooperation. the text we have now agreed with the european parliament is a significant improvement. there are four main improvements: first, the annex containing the categories of cultural goods eligible for refund is deleted. from now on, any cultural object considered by a member state to be part of its national treasures shall be returned because of its particular artistic, historical or archaeological value. secondly, the extension of the individual time limits gives the national authorities in charge of the return procedure more time to do their job. national authorities now have six months instead of two months to check whether an object located in another member state is a 'cultural object' within the meaning of the directive. the time for initiating the return procedure before the competent court has also been extended from one to three years. thirdly, with the introduction of the internal market information system, the competent national authorities are equipped with a tool that improves administrative cooperation and the exchange of information. we hope that this new system will speed up cooperation and reduce costs. finally, the fourth and perhaps most important feature of the directive as it is now formulated is the fact that the payment of compensation is subject to the obligation of the holder to prove that he or she has exercised due diligence. a presumption is therefore established. the directive introduces uniform rules in all member states, shifting the burden of proof to the holder. this regulation is crucial to preventing and combating the illicit trafficking of cultural goods, as it will create a level playing field for all those involved in the art market. i am glad that we have achieved our objective of reaching an agreement in less than a year. we can be very pleased with the result. i should like to thank the hardworking rapporteur, mrs vergiat, and the chairman of the committee on culture, mrs doris pack, for their constructive contribution to the negotiating process. i would like to thank commissioner tajani and the european commission. finally, i would like to point out the interest shown by the shadow rapporteurs in this matter and thank them of course for their time and contribution. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i am well aware of what it means for a country to feel culturally disadvantaged when it loses important national treasures. speaking not on behalf of the council but as vice-president and minister for foreign affairs of the greek government, i can only refer, on the occasion of this debate, to the major issue which is the mutilated monument of the parthenon the mutilated major monument of western civilization. parliament has already adopted a written declaration in 1999 that the return of the parthenon sculptures to greece would be a key opportunity to promote the common european cultural heritage, and this should be noted in connection with the updating and improvement of the directive on the return of cultural objects. it is a monument whose architectural elements are fragmented, while the new acropolis museum, which is now hosting working dinners for all the ministers and other officials visiting athens as part of the greek presidency, is our main argument for the need to reunite the monument and return the parthenon sculptures. i should also like to mention the damage to the cultural heritage of the republic of cyprus following the military invasion of 1974, which affected the archaeological and other cultural treasures of the island in a very characteristic way. the european parliament, by adopting this directive, is sending a message that for our europe the cultural dimension, that is to say the dimension of europe's cultural heritage and common historical consciousness, is always very important. thank you, sir.
vice-president of the commission. - madam president, mr president-in-office of the council, ladies and gentlemen, today's vote represents a step forward for the protection of cultural heritage in the internal market and, looking back, as the rapporteur has also pointed out, we cannot say that the 1993 directive on the return of cultural property has been particularly effective. the return of goods between member states has been rare in the european union and has not been able to counteract the losses and negative effects of illicit trafficking in cultural goods. the commission wanted to remedy this ineffectiveness by a major reform of the directive. the new directive will greatly facilitate the return of cultural property identified as national treasures of artistic, historical or archaeological value between member states, thus contributing to the conservation of such heritage. this will enable the member states to recover all national treasures which have been illegally removed from their territory since 1 january 1993 and the citizens of these member states will no longer be deprived of proof of their identity and their history. the main new features include: first, the extension of the scope of the directive to all cultural objects classified or defined as national heritage; second, the time limit for submitting a refund application is reduced to three years. third, in order to obtain compensation, the burden of proof of due diligence for the acquisition of the cultural object is on the possessor. finally, let me remind you that the prevention and combating of illicit trafficking is a task for all of us and must be exercised by all means at our disposal. this directive therefore forms part of the more ambitious perspective of protecting national heritage. i also think it is particularly positive that this house has recognised the importance of the proposal and has committed itself to adopting it so quickly. finally, i would like to thank parliament and in particular the rapporteur responsible, mrs vergiat, and the shadow rapporteurs for their efforts and commitment during the negotiations. on this occasion too, on the eve of the european elections, we have succeeded in defending europe's cultural heritage and in striking a blow at the criminal gangs who organise the trafficking of art objects, damaging national heritage which is also europe's heritage.
on behalf of the s&d club, i congratulate the rapporteur on having summarised most of the problems faced by member states in the recovery of cultural property. despite numerous safeguards, after drug and arms trafficking, the trafficking of cultural goods remains one of the most widespread forms of illicit trade. within the union, 40 000 works of art are smuggled into the union each year. first of all, we need a common definition of national cultural heritage to ensure a set of rules that is equal for all. because as long as the definition differs between member states, so will the practice. as the newest member of the union, croatia is extremely keen to extend the application of the directive to cases of alienation of cultural property committed before 1993. while the european union was abolishing market barriers, which was one of the reasons for adopting the first directive, croatia had to defend its national borders. during that period, 22,829 museum objects and 3,097 cultural objects were looted. a good part of it was restored by 2008, but since then, a little over 100 objects have been restored. the ministers of culture of croatia and serbia signed a protocol on the return of cultural property by the end of 2013, but this was not achieved and the implementation of the protocol continues. as this is an example of an open question between a full member and a candidate country negotiating membership, i welcome this directive - it can help to resolve this issue as well. i think the return of cultural property should be part of the negotiating package like any other adjustment.
madam president, i would like to start by congratulating the rapporteur on her excellent work. in particular, i believe that changes to the existing directive were necessary to make it more efficient and to make it work. i welcome the deletion of the annex specifying which categories of cultural goods meet the conditions for return and i fully agree that it is up to the member states themselves to define which cultural goods they consider to be their national treasures. the problem of returning illegally removed cultural property particularly affects the country i come from. the situation is somewhat different - cultural goods are not smuggled out of croatia, but simply looted. during the war, in the 90s, many cultural assets were looted and taken to serbia. the directive on the return of cultural objects unlawfully removed from the territory of the member states of the european union will regulate the return of such objects from 1993. however, many of the illicitly removed cultural goods from croatia were removed before 1993, i.e. 1991. i believe that can be regulated on the basis of the protocol signed by croatia and serbia a year ago. as a candidate country, serbia should speed up the return process, as only just over half of the items seized have been returned so far, and i believe that this directive should become part of the acquis and an obligation for all potential eu members.
madam president, i am looking at this matter with particular sensitivity and interest. no other european union member state has been the victim of a cultural genocide in the last 25 years as croatia has been. our cultural heritage suffered massive destruction and theft on an unprecedented scale in the early 1990s, and much of the stolen national treasure has not been returned and is still in serbia. i therefore fully support this proposal for a directive, but i hope that croatia will not have to wait for serbia to join the european union to recover its cultural heritage that was lost during the war. given that the cultural heritage of a people is the very essence of its identity, and it is precisely this identity that we want to protect in the european union, i hereby call on the european institutions to openly and clearly advocate the return of the alienated croatian national treasures as soon as possible through serbia's accession negotiations with the european union.
madam president, i too am very intrigued by this subject - i have already spoken about it in the committee on culture and i believe that 1993 was a bad year for croatia and many other countries. we heard from mr. venizelos in greece, he was talking about the acropolis, about 1989. so it's very important to change the line in 1993 when it comes to croatia. as we have already heard, more than 46 000 different museum exhibits were stolen from croatia. of course, the cultural good is not defined. it's about half back. we believe that croatia has suffered a great deal of damage and that there is now a real opportunity in the negotiations with serbia for accession to the european union to regulate this issue. it's not just about the dispossession of cultural property. you know that there are still 1,655 missing persons in the patriotic war, we have no records of them. so this is an opportunity to negotiate with serbia and solve this problem. return of cultural property yes, directive yes, but 1993 is not a good deadline.
madam chairman, the 1993 directive is a failure because there were only seven recalls. changes are therefore needed, especially in the fight against organised crime, corruption and the protection of cultural heritage. i welcome the text in the section which allows the return of cultural property that was dispossessed before 1993. it is desirable that the legislative concern for the return of works of art should be guided by concern for the rank and value of individual monuments representing protected national property, that is, by measures to protect cultural property under national legislation. the acceleration and facilitation of restitution or compensation in matters of artistic monuments is a very complex issue. it should be noted, however, that certain items that can or should be returned more quickly or more easily are not necessarily works of art. it is particularly important that the parts of the alienated cultural property are returned in situ, that is to say, to the collections as a whole and to the context in which they can only speak and represent all that value whenever possible. i agree that the return of works of art is an important ethical issue and that this is how the creation of the european list of expropriated cultural property should be approached.
madam chair, plastic bags are not something most people think about when they're packing things in the store or piling them up in the kitchen. they only get teased when they're walking in the wild or when they see a news report about tons of plastic floating in the ocean. i come from a country that lives off the beauty of its nature and the purity of the adriatic sea. tourism is one of the most important sectors of the croatian economy and its growth depends on our willingness to protect the environment. so i'm glad my amendment was passed, which warns of the damage that discarded plastic bags do to tourism. the figure of 8 billion bags thrown away every year at eu level is truly alarming and calls for action. this directive requires member states to reduce the consumption of ultra-thin plastic bags. to achieve this, we need timetables and measures, taking into account, of course, good results and good practice. if we don't do something about the plastic bags that are being thrown out today, maybe the european parliament will be debating there sometime in 2114.
on behalf of the ecr club. mr president, as a representative of croatia, a country with a long external maritime border, i am particularly interested in this topic. i welcome this initiative, because it proposes a more efficient system of external border control which, alongside high-quality technical solutions, introduces a human dimension through special attention to victims of trafficking in human beings. although some member states are under great pressure from new waves of illegal immigration and their public has developed a negative attitude towards this important issue, i believe it is even more important that we do not succumb to low passions and that we continue to approach the problem of illegal immigration with maximum professionalism. assistance to those who are stranded, whether injured, sick or victims of human trafficking, should certainly remain one of the pillars of our policy on external maritime border control. but i believe that we must not neglect the preventive component of our mediterranean policy and that we should accordingly increase the scope of our diplomatic and economic activities in order to have the strongest possible impact on the countries from which the largest number of illegal migrants come. the eu has also been working with the countries of the middle east to develop a comprehensive strategy to combat trafficking in human beings.
mr president, the statistics on the number of casualties in the mediterranean are a tragic reminder that the surveillance of europe's maritime borders is still not adequately regulated today. i come from croatia, a maritime country with a long maritime border and a specific coastal configuration whose position will surely become more vulnerable due to its geographical exposure and accessibility as a result of its recent accession to the european union. i support the mandatory provisions on the rescue and identification of migrants at sea proposed in this report, the definition of crisis phases with clearly defined search and rescue rules, and the special attention paid to the most vulnerable groups, victims of trafficking in human beings and minors who are by far the most in need of assistance. the union's contribution to the european neighbourhood policy (enp) is estimated at eur 5 billion. i also welcome the solidarity mechanisms that member states can activate in periods of high migrant arrivals. but in addition to solidarity, member states should respect the principle of moral responsibility to help migrants at sea. in this context, it is necessary to emphasise further the exemption of the master and crew of a ship from any liability in each member state if they rescue a vessel with people and bring it to the nearest port. they are obliged to do so by international law, but local authorities can cause them problems. the moral responsibility of rescue should become the legal norm. we must never tire of repeating that foreigners have long since left our doorstep, but are here in the common european home. i therefore support this report which shows, although not fully developed, an improved concept of solidarity and effectiveness.
in writing. – dear colleagues, we are all here today because great men had a vision of europe where nations cooperate and leaders talk. that vision made it possible for europe to go through an unprecedented period of peace and prosperity. this great hall we talk in is one of the pillars of that security and we should respect what greater men than us have created. we might not all agree on how much europe there should be or should there be a europe at all, but i think we can all agree that ten years of talking are better than a single shot fired. i call on everyone to conduct the electoral campaign in a decent and tolerant way. votes should not be gained by playing on people’s fears and traumas, because elections pass but tensions remain. with extremism on the rise, we should all remember the lessons from the history of our continent. peace is precious and fragile, we in croatia know this very well.
mr. president, the reason for today's debate is the escalation of the crisis in eastern ukraine. it doesn't take much imagination to figure out what's going on here. we saw this in the 1990s in the politics of slobodan milosevic, and before that, in the 1930s in europe. we all knew how the russians would react in crimea. but the anschluss of crimea had happened, and we were just horrified observers. we can't afford the same in eastern ukraine. the answer is not to support the center-right, because russia is organizing some russian sector there. the answer is not in divisions, but in diplomacy and what the european union can offer, economic aid and using the money we have to help democracy and ukraine. the answer is not in the persecution of the communists in the west or the rightists in the east. finally, russia is not a communist country definitely. the answer is in sanctions against a dictator that mean something. it costs, but it's worth it. we cannot afford to allow our assistance to ukraine to be blackmailed, but we must prevent further collapse of society. otherwise, the russian pressure will have the desired effect.
mr. president, i would like to congratulate my colleague, pöttering. it is quite clear that the russian leadership has already crossed the ukrainian border both de jure and de facto. not only for the recent annexation of crimea, but for the uncovered logistical and propaganda sponsorship of the current unrest in the east of the country. the events in ukraine that follow will reveal which vision is more relevant. putin's repeatedly stated wish for at least a partial restoration of russia's power from the past or ours for the european union to be the future common home of all europeans who want it. however, indecision or division among member states due to divergent interests can easily put the european union in danger of losing the ability to have a more serious impact on events. today in the ukraine crisis, tomorrow somewhere else in the post-soviet hotspot. clearly, the pressure on the so-called guam countries is not easing, and recent events demand our thoughtful response to the question of how far russia and the european union can be partners in the same space today and how far they remain rivals. but alongside the military-political uncertainties, there are also uncertain negotiations between kiev and the international financial institutions, and there must be a way to find a more lasting balance between economic security and social conditions in ukraine, and thus protect the country's democratic perspective, because regardless of the outcome of the confrontation with russian interests, the struggle with the frustrations and fears of the population of the post-soviet industrial cities in eastern ukraine is a much more difficult task for the new government in kiev, and it must not be left alone and we must be observers.
mr. president, (inaudible) in the ukraine has intensified over time. so in this house, we've been talking more and more about russian aggression on this country. we've gradually started to express concerns for other countries in the region because we can't know where putin's ambitions end. but as much as we've talked about ukraine, we've done little on the ground to really help that country. the scenario seen in the break-up of the former yugoslavia is being played out again before our eyes on european soil, and europe's reaction is the same as it was almost 25 years ago, weak, sluggish and subordinated to particular interests. ladies and gentlemen, the parliament is adjourned tomorrow and there is no more room for discussion. elections and months of juggling the political puzzle of the european union are coming, and ukraine cannot wait that long. i therefore hereby call once again for tougher sanctions against russia and for more decisive action by the european union to protect the sovereignty and territorial integrity of ukraine.
mr president, this recommendation is a real step forward for many workers and a major step towards free movement of workers and a boost for social europe. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's financial instruments, in particular the european regional development fund, in order to ensure that the union's macro-financial assistance is consistent with the objectives of the union's macro-financial assistance. a good retirement is a necessity today when all the indicators are that europeans are expected to live longer. by 2060, the proportion of those aged 65 and over is expected to rise from 17 percent to 30 percent of the population. i would like to thank mrs rija oomen-ruijten, our colleague, who managed to reach an agreement in 2013, even though this text was proposed by the commission as far back as 2005. i want to take this opportunity to thank riya for her dedicated 25 years in the european parliament, because this is the end of her mandate.
written. - the different social protection systems of the member states are in many cases moving towards the creation of supplementary pension systems. in the republic of croatia, just last year, a law was passed regulating the collection of pensions, which has similarities with the supplementary pension system, filling a legal void since the collection of pensions as an institute of labour law in practice has often been the subject of collective bargaining and contracting. it is therefore important to ensure in a timely manner that the rules governing these schemes do not undermine the freedom of movement of workers as one of the fundamental freedoms of the european union, and in particular for the most mobile workers who might consider the possibility of losing their right to supplementary pension as a serious factor in deciding to seek employment in another member state, which could harm the flexibility and effectiveness of the labour market. i therefore consider this issue to be important to address through european legislation and i consider the amended commission proposal to be a good step in that direction.
written. - the aim of this directive is to further facilitate the mobility of workers between member states by promoting the acquisition and preservation of supplementary pension rights of members of these supplementary pension schemes. i supported the directive because it does not affect the right of member states to organise their own pension systems. member states may retain full responsibility for the organisation of such schemes and, when a directive is transposed into national law, there is no obligation to introduce legislation providing for the establishment of supplementary pension schemes.
mr president, croatia's accession to the european union has increased its focus on food safety issues. the globalization of trade and food production and the problems that can result from it increase the risk of foodborne illness. the rules applicable to official controls need to be more closely integrated in order to ensure the consistency, quality and effectiveness of official controls on food and feed, animal health and welfare, plant health and plant protection products. in the european union, the agri-food sector is the second largest sector, employing more than 48 million people. that is why i voted in favour of this proposal, because it seeks to achieve continuous improvement and harmonisation of official controls throughout the sector. the innovative nature of the information system for recording and monitoring official controls, the minimisation of administrative burdens and disruption to business for economic operators and the improvement of communication with the public, including the provision of information to the public on food-related risks, will also raise awareness among all citizens.
written. - the european agricultural processing industry is worth €750 billion a year and provides 48 million jobs. the legislation that controls that area is extensive and needs to be regulated. the proposed set of measures will lead to less overlap of legislation, greater transparency and identify areas that have been unclear until now. the commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down the criteria for the selection of the beneficiary countries. as the common agricultural policy is the second largest beneficiary of the eu budget, quality regulation is essential for its sustainability.
written. - food for humans and animal feed in the union must be completely safe and healthy to protect citizens. to ensure the safety and health of food for humans and animals, certain standards must be met. regulation (ec) no 882/2004 lays down general rules for the performance of official controls to verify compliance with food and feed law, and animal health and welfare. union rules also ensure a high level of human and animal health, animal welfare throughout the food chain and in all areas of activity where the main objective is to combat the possible spread of animal diseases, which in some cases are transmissible to humans or organisms harmful to plants or plant products, and ensure the protection of the environment from the risks that may arise from genetically modified organisms and plant protection products. i support this proposal by the rapporteur and welcome the proposed amendments. in fact, the global market is facing increasingly complex agri-food chains and this too needs to be addressed. in order to guarantee citizens their right to quality and healthy products, a detailed system of rules must be respected.
written. - i supported the commission's proposal to amend the legislation on official controls to address the shortcomings identified in the text and its application. it aims to establish a robust, transparent and sustainable regulatory framework that is better 'fit for purpose'. the document contains three major revisions to update the acquis on animal health, plant health and plant reproductive material. it aims to modernise and integrate the system of official controls that will consistently follow the modernisation of eu policies in these sectors. i also regard as problematic the principle that each member state introduces control fees at its own discretion, since there may be differences in their application, and therefore i am in favour of harmonising the criteria and methodology for the management of those fees, but not their actual financial amount, which should reflect the actual capabilities of each member state.
mr president, i supported this proposal for the adoption of a single and simplified regulatory framework for animal health aimed at achieving compliance with international standards and ensuring high animal health standards. animal health and the control of animal diseases are a prerequisite for the functioning of the single market for trade in live animals, animal products and food and have a major impact on public health and food safety. i agree that particular attention needs to be paid to the different regional conditions and territorial areas in order to prevent the spread of specific diseases and possible damage to the economy in larger areas. furthermore, a greater focus on disease prevention and control measures, disease control, research and scientific progress leads to new knowledge and increased awareness of existing diseases. that's why i think this report is important.
written. - animal health has been regulated by 40 different legislative acts, the oldest of which dates back to 1964. the new regulation is driven by the idea that prevention is better than cure. as a doctor, i think that's the best approach. especially when you consider that 70% of infections are common to animals and humans. studies clearly show that the cost of an animal epidemic is very high. it's primarily affecting farmers, but there are also indirect costs to society, tourism and so on. that is why i think that quality regulation in this area, adapted to today's conditions, is absolutely necessary.
written. - there is a clear link between animal welfare and animal health, because animals are first and foremost living beings. it is therefore necessary to ensure that they are provided with appropriate conditions. animal health directly affects humans, and transmissible animal diseases can have a devastating impact on other animals, their owners and the economy as a whole. the aim of this commission proposal was to provide a clear and transparent framework to bring together and update the various fragments of eu legislation on animal health issues in one document. the prevention, monitoring and control of animal diseases transmitted to other animals and humans is of paramount importance for public health due to the fact that approximately 70% of infectious diseases are common to animals and humans. i am satisfied with the outcome of the agreements reached by the political parties, especially on the issue of emergency measures to combat diseases such as swine fever, avian influenza and others. the use of antibiotics in animals and their increasing resistance, and the proper use of medicines, should also be given careful consideration. i also fully support the introduction of effective security measures along the borders with third countries and the possibility of additional safeguards based on scientific knowledge to prevent the spread of diseases should they occur.
written. - the impact of transmissible animal diseases and the measures needed to control these diseases can be devastating for individual animals, animal populations, animal owners and the economy, and can have a major impact on public health and food safety. i supported this regulation which aims to implement the commitments and visions of the animal health strategy, including the 'one health' principle, which is particularly supported by the world organisation for animal health (oie), and to consolidate the legal framework for the union's common animal health policy through a single, simplified and flexible regulatory framework for animal health. accordingly, it is appropriate to reduce the administrative burden and costs and to provide for flexibility of the system. in addition, member states should take strategic measures to monitor, prevent and eradicate transmissible animal diseases in order to reduce the risk of the development of antimicrobial resistance.
mr president, as a member of the committee on the environment, public health and food i am interested in these issues and can therefore say that the globalisation of trade and climate change are affecting european agriculture, forests and natural heritage by increasing the risk of harmful organisms entering european territory. it is necessary to modernise existing plant health legislation and apply uniform rules for the whole union market in order not to create obstacles to the free movement of goods, which is one of the key principles of the european union. i supported this proposal and i consider it justified and necessary. plant health is a key factor for sustainable and competitive agriculture, horticulture and forestry, and is also of paramount importance for biodiversity, natural ecosystems and ecosystem services.
written. - plant health is of paramount importance for biodiversity in the union, and consequently affects plant production, public and private green spaces and natural ecosystems. unfortunately, with globalisation and the increase in climate change, the risks of introducing 'harmful organisms' that threaten european species into the union are also increasing. prevention, protection measures and early detection of the presence of harmful organisms are of paramount importance for the timely and effective eradication. it is therefore necessary to adopt certain measures to prevent that threat. the current regulatory framework of the european union on plant health (directive 2000/29/ec) aims to protect european agriculture and forestry by preventing the entry and spread of foreign pests. however, the existing regulatory framework is not strong enough to stem the increasing influx of new, dangerous threats caused by the globalisation of trade. i therefore support amendments to the legislation and the introduction of quarantines for certain plant species, which could also modify the legislation and reduce the unnecessary number of implementing and delegated acts.
written. - plant health is very important for plant production, public and private green spaces, natural ecosystems, ecosystem services and biodiversity in the union. it is threatened by organisms harmful to plants and plant products and is at increased risk of introduction into the european territory due to the globalisation of trade and climate change. i support this proposal and measures to identify the phytosanitary risks posed by harmful organisms and to reduce them to acceptable levels. prevention, protection measures and early detection of the presence of harmful organisms are of paramount importance for the timely and effective eradication. member states should therefore carry out surveys for the presence of union quarantine pests in areas where those pests are not known to be present.
mr president, the free movement of products which are safe, original and which meet the conditions laid down by law is one of the fundamental objectives for the achievement of the single market. the achievement of the above objective would result in restoring the confidence of consumers who are currently very often not protected in such a way that they do not have the possibility to verify where the products they buy really come from. this is confirmed by a 2012 eurobarometer survey, which found that 27%[nbsp ] of consumers considered that a significant number of non-food consumer products on the single market were unsafe. i therefore support the rapporteur's view that the proper functioning of the single market requires the provision of two very important components, namely safety for consumers and a level playing field for businesses. this can be achieved by introducing controls throughout the supply chain and penalties systems to prevent or restrict the use of unfair and illegal trading practices.
written. - the common market is the foundation of the european union, and it consists of half a billion consumers. the commission therefore concluded that the measures in question were not imputable to the state. unfortunately, the fact that 27% of european citizens have doubts about the safety of products in the common market is discouraging. it goes without saying that a lack of confidence in the control mechanisms of the common market means less consumption and a slower recovery of the economy. the fact is, we read about toxic toys and dangerous clothing all the time, and that's why when i talk about consumer protection as a parent, i'm thinking primarily of children. however, media alerts mean that rapex is working and alerting institutions and consumers in good time to the risks identified. the bad news is that the number of alerts has increased by as much as 26% since 2011. the proposal for a new regulation is well designed and introduces new rules that will better protect consumers.
written. i have endorsed the report of the representative christel schaldemos on the safety of consumer products. the final consumption market is large, dynamic and complex and is characterised by a lack of consumer confidence which is hindering the growth of the market in the eu. in order to make product safety more effective, we need to focus on consumer vulnerability, which is one of the factors in determining product safety. i think that products should be marked with an indication of origin, because that increases market surveillance. i agree to the introduction of a new ce+ marking (ce = european conformity) which will also be examined by an independent third party and to the strengthening of security through the contact points. the point of contact in croatia is the ministry of economy, which monitors product safety through the rapex system. in 2013, eu member states took 2 364 measures. the number of alerts received increased by 3,8% compared to 2012. the main product categories in which corrective measures were necessary were clothing, textiles and toys (each represented by 25%).
written. - the aim of the consumer product safety regulation, which is part of the consumer product safety and market surveillance package, is to lay down uniform rules on the general safety requirements for all non-food consumer products placed on the internal market. the consumer product safety regulation lays down detailed obligations for economic operators. i believe that consumer product safety needs to be strengthened and consumer confidence in products on the eu market restored, and i therefore support this report. the union should also contribute to the protection of the health and safety of consumers. according to a survey conducted by the commission's eurobarometer in 2012, 27% of consumers considered that a significant number of non-food consumer products in the single market were unsafe. i agree with rapporteur schaldemos that the importance of product origin labelling should make it easier for consumers to access information about the product chain and thus increase their level of awareness. the safety of products is an issue of particular importance both in the member states of the european union and thus in croatia, where national legislation is aligned with the acquis of the european union. the croatian government has adopted a regulation on a system for the exchange of information on products presenting a risk to the health and safety of consumers. the rapex directive, which lays down the procedure and content of the system for the rapid exchange of information on dangerous products, has been in force since croatia's accession to the eu.
written. - while the proposal has a lot of good elements and really does contribute to consumer protection and consumer product safety, i voted against it because of certain elements that were incorporated into the report. the proposal requires distributors and importers to verify whether the product complies with the general safety obligation and, ultimately, whether the manufacturer has complied with its obligations, thereby assigning them a disproportionate role in the safety control of the product. the proposal requires importers to keep the product document for a period of 10 years, which i also consider excessive. in addition, while i am in favour of strong penalties for manufacturers and other market players who endanger consumer safety, i believe that the penalty for infringement of the regulation should be the responsibility of the member states and that there is no need to harmonise the system of penalties at eu level.
mr vice-president, the free movement of goods is one of the fundamental freedoms underpinning the idea of a single market within the union, and the proper functioning of the single market requires a high level of consumer confidence in the country where the product is produced and in the country where the product is distributed. according to the european commission, only about 0,3% of all goods imported or placed on the market in the european union are checked by the authorities. consumer confidence can only be gained by establishing effective market surveillance. the final objective is to create a product that will not present a risk to the health and safety of consumers and that will be fully compliant with the applicable union legislation. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 concerning the conditions for the granting of such authorisations. i supported the rapporteur's view that the commission should act to find long-term innovative solutions.
written. - the product market surveillance report aims to improve product protection and is part of the comprehensive product protection package. i agree with the rapporteur that, as stated in the report, market surveillance should be based on an assessment of the risks posed by a product, taking into account all relevant data. the modalities and methods of risk assessment should be the same in all member states with a view to ensuring equal opportunities for all economic operators. i believe that it is necessary to inform citizens about their contribution to market surveillance. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the conditions for the participation of the european parliament and of the council in the work of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
written. - i supported the report by sirpe pietikäinen on product market surveillance. the eu market is a complex and dynamic space which opens the door to many difficulties in the market exchange of goods. we represent consumer protection, health and public safety through market surveillance. european consumers need to have confidence in the safety of products regardless of their origin, thereby creating the freedom of movement of goods and the creation of a single market. i believe that the existing legislative framework for market surveillance is not coherent enough and that therefore more effective coordination should be pursued in order to ensure that the functioning of surveillance is subject to homogeneous criteria for all eu member states. the establishment of the european market surveillance forum would bring about cooperation between the authorities of the member states. we need to put in place a strong audit of the quality control of economic operators so that we can identify in advance the danger coming from other countries in the market exchange.
written. - i supported the proposal for a product market surveillance regulation because i believe it establishes an appropriate and effective framework to provide effective protection, timely risk communication and the desirable involvement of consumers in the market surveillance process. in particular, i welcome this proposal in that it provides that market surveillance authorities give consumers and other interested parties the opportunity to submit complaints about product safety issues and market surveillance activities and risks arising in relation to those products. i also consider that the desirable level of consumer protection will be ensured through the action of market surveillance authorities who can request the economic operator to correct a formal non-compliance and, if it fails to do so, can withdraw or recall the product concerned until the non-compliance is corrected. furthermore, i consider that the need to inform citizens in a timely manner about risky products is met, in particular through the publication of such information by the authorities responsible for monitoring websites. finally, i consider that this regulation leaves member states with sufficient powers by adopting general market surveillance programmes and sector-specific programmes which they will themselves decide on the organisation of surveillance and related activities.
written. - the markets in financial instruments directive (mifid) and the new regulation (mifid ii) are the foundation of european financial regulation. the political agreement reached on 14 january 2014 regulates all aspects of trading on financial markets, including investment firms, credit institutions, data service providers and market operators. i am very pleased with the solutions my group has achieved. the main areas of concern were the position of the boundaries in commodity derivatives, high-frequency trading and investor protection. significant progress has been made in the framework of the market structure. the commission has also taken into account the fact that the rules on the use of the mtfs are not uniform across the union. as regards commodity derivatives, it is important that in future the harmonisation of the position of the borders in commodity derivatives will improve transparency, prevent market abuse, which will ultimately lead to the elimination of market distortions. the commission has also proposed to amend the rules on the authorisation, supervision and restriction of high-frequency trading firms.
written. - in recent years, there has been an increase in the number of active investors in financial markets, and the range of services and instruments offered to them has become increasingly extensive and complex. in view of these circumstances, union law should cover this wide range of investor-oriented activities. it is for that reason that it is necessary to ensure a degree of harmonisation that will offer a high degree of protection to investors and allow investment firms to provide services throughout the union as an internal market, based on home member state supervision. directive 2004/39/ec, which replaced directive 93/22/ec, has been substantially amended several times and should be recast in the interests of clarity. for this reason, i support the rapporteur's position because, as we have seen, the financial crisis has revealed weaknesses in the functioning and transparency of financial markets. with the development of financial markets, certain new problems arose that had not been regulated until then. furthermore, in view of the new financial instruments that are emerging every day, it is important that union legal regulations keep pace with new trends and that errors are revised.
written. - in recent years, more and more investors have become active in the financial markets, and the range of services and instruments offered to them has become more extensive and complex. in view of these developments, the legal framework of the european union should cover a wide range of investor-oriented activities. the financial crisis has revealed weaknesses in the functioning and transparency of financial markets. the development of financial markets has revealed the need to strengthen the guidelines on the regulation of markets in financial instruments. regulation is particularly relevant where trading takes place off-exchange and contributes to greater transparency, better investor protection, confidence building, the exposure of unregulated areas and ensuring that supervisors are given appropriate powers to carry out their tasks. it is therefore necessary to ensure the necessary degree of harmonisation to offer investors a high degree of protection. investment firms would be able to provide services throughout the european union as an internal market, with home member state supervision.
written. - the purpose of the directive is to cover companies whose regular activity or business is to provide investment services or to carry out investment activities on a professional basis. i support the establishment of a comprehensive regulatory framework governing the execution of transactions in financial instruments irrespective of the trading methods used to conclude transactions, in order to ensure a high quality of execution of transactions by investors and to maintain the integrity and overall efficiency of the financial system. it is also necessary to create a coherent and risk-sensitive framework for the regulation of the main types of order-execution systems currently represented on the european financial market and to take account of the emergence of a new generation of organised trading systems that should be subject to obligations aimed at preserving the efficiency and orderly functioning of financial markets.
mr president, it concerns the communication of information by the customs administration, the exchange of confidential data between member states and the definition of a statistical value. member states should exchange confidential data relating to intra-union trade statistics free of charge in order to increase the efficiency of the development, production and distribution or improvement of those statistics. however, given the recent breaches of the protection of data of union citizens, the transfer of sensitive statistical data needs to be carried out with particular care and increased security. uniform definitions of statistical values are necessary for unimpeded cross-border trade and are particularly important as a prerequisite for the different national authorities to be able to interpret in a harmonised manner the rules affecting the cross-border activities of business operators.
written. - intrastat is a system for collecting information and producing statistics on the trade in goods between the countries of the european union. it started work on 1 january 1993, replacing customs declarations as the source of intra-eu trade statistics. statistics are an important factor in the development of european internal market policy and market analysis. the definition of statistical value needs to be clarified and harmonised to allow for better comparability of intra-eu and extra-eu trade statistics. uniform definitions are necessary for proper and unhindered cross-border trade and are particularly important as a prerequisite for different national authorities to be able to interpret in a harmonised manner the rules affecting the cross-border activities of business operators. the exchange of information through national authorities should be free of charge for member states and union institutions or agencies. following the recent discovery of breaches of the protection of data of union citizens and member states, there is a need to strengthen the security of the transmission of sensitive statistical data. the national authorities receiving confidential data must treat the data as confidential and use them only for statistical purposes.
written. - the commission proposal updates the existing regulations following the adoption of the treaty of lisbon and relates to intrastat, and aims to improve coordination between national authorities for the purpose of better statistics at union level. the regulation on trade statistics is important for the development of european internal market policy and market analysis. it is of particular importance that the commission carry out appropriate consultations during its preparatory work, including at expert level where appropriate, after consulting member states on the basis of an evaluation by the commission of the need to address identified identified identified identified identified needs and where appropriate, of potential conflicts of interest. the simplification of the customs clearance programme has led to the unavailability of statistical information at customs level on goods subject to customs clearance procedures. in order to ensure data coverage, the movement of those goods should be included in the intrastat system while limiting additional costs to the greatest extent possible. unfortunately, my group tried to introduce amendments to the exchange of confidential information for tax purposes, which were not accepted at the time, which is why, although the ep negotiating team was very successful in reaching agreements with the council, i was reluctant to vote on this report.
written. - i have supported the report by mr martin on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 638/2004 on community statistics relating to the trading of goods between member states as regards the conferral of delegated and implementing powers on the commission to adopt certain measures, the communication of information by the customs administration, the exchange of confidential information between member states and the definition of the statistical value. international trade is an important part of the world economy and as such must be reliable and such statistics must be comparable and widely distributed. i consider it important that this report defines the rules under which the exchange of confidential data relating to trade statistics would be allowed, but it is necessary to ensure that this exchange is carried out carefully and does not cause an increase in administrative burdens. croatia exports and imports 60% of its exports and imports to eu member states. the number of business entities involved in trade with the eu in croatia is 22 788 (2011-2012).
written. - in order to ensure uniform conditions for the implementation of regulation (ec) no 638/2004, i support the proposal to confer on the commission implementing powers for the procedure for the collection of information, in particular with regard to the codes to be used, the technical provisions for compiling annual statistics on trade according to the characteristics of the undertaking and all the measures necessary to ensure that the quality of the data transmitted free of charge complies with the quality criteria.
written. - central securities depositories (csds) contribute to maintaining the infrastructures that protect financial markets when trading. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the conditions for the participation of undertakings in the securities settlement systems referred to in article 4 (1) of regulation (eu) no 575/2013. in order to ensure that the market infrastructure is not disrupted, it is necessary to ensure that the market infrastructure is not disrupted. the functioning of the securities settlement system should be more open to competition and to user participation in order to allow for the faster, market-driven development of more efficient settlement models and interoperable standards. the commission also found that the union industry had a significant market share in the union market. the commission has also found that the market for the provision of electronic trading platforms is not sufficiently diversified to allow the provision of electronic trading platforms to the public.
written. - central securities depositories (csds) are private financial institutions that are essential in contributing to and maintaining the efficiency of the post-trade infrastructure. the effectiveness of those institutions guarantees market participants that a securities transaction will be executed in an orderly and timely manner. in addition, despite the growth of cross-border settlement, settlement markets in the union are still fragmented and cross-border settlement is more expensive due to different national rules governing the settlement and activities of csds and limited competition between csds. this fragmentation is disruptive and creates additional risks and costs for cross-border settlement. the proper functioning of the internal market requires the creation of an integrated securities settlement market, without distinction between national and cross-border transactions in securities. for that reason, i am satisfied with the outcome of the agreement on this subject. the most important features achieved are: the obligation to settle all transactions within 2 days after the trade (t+2), penalties for non-execution, the reporting of all settlement details to competent authorities by the csd, the reduction of the regulatory burden on smes markets and the requirement for csds to store on an aggregated basis securities lending and redemption data which would then be available to competent authorities.
written. - the open internal market in securities should ensure full access so that any investor can invest in all union securities with the same ease and using the same familiar procedures as for domestic securities. the investor should be provided with access to the services of advisers in order to facilitate the investment in any union securities. it is necessary to lay down several uniform obligations for market participants with regard to certain aspects of the cycle and discipline. the rules of the regulation should ensure that all market participants are subject to the same, directly applicable obligations, standards and rules. the regulation should enhance the security and efficiency of settlement in the union by preventing the emergence of different national rules resulting from the transposition of a directive. in order to ensure settlement security, any participant in a securities settlement system that buys or sells certain financial instruments, namely transferable securities, money market instruments, units in collective investment undertakings and emission allowances, should settle its obligation on the intended settlement date. market maintenance activities play a key role in ensuring liquidity for markets in the union. the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the measures on the financial markets, in particular on the financial markets in the union, in order to assess the impact of the measures on the financial markets in the union.
written. - this regulation should recognise and support the existing models of central securities depositories of all member states and the services they provide, which have been developed to meet the specific needs of their national financial markets, their national economies and companies and to comply with the laws of their member states. i supported this report because it suggests increasing competitiveness, reducing cross-border barriers and improving access across the union among participants, custodians and ultimate investors to serve the whole union and the internal market. the csd shall ensure that the csd's activities are conducted in a manner that is consistent with the principles of transparency and non-discrimination, and that the csd's activities are conducted in a manner that is proportionate to the risks and risks it faces.
written. - international maritime conventions require that marine equipment meet construction, design and performance standards. this proposal aims to improve the functioning of the internal market in marine equipment, thereby increasing the safety of ships and their crews and preventing marine accidents and pollution of the marine environment. the eu marine equipment industry comprises some 6 000 companies with some 300 000 employees. higher safety standards will also create new jobs. this directive applies to equipment which is fitted to an eu ship and which requires the approval of the administration of the flag state, irrespective of whether the ship is in the union at the time of the fitting. it shall not apply to equipment already on board at the time of entry into force of this directive. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 concerning the conditions for the authorisation of the use of marine equipment in the maritime domain. in cases where a risk is identified, the member state should invite the manufacturer to undertake appropriate repairs or to recall the equipment concerned. the precise definition of requirements and standard certification procedures has gradually reduced the number of potential differences between member states.
written. - the marine equipment industry is one of the eu's leading sectors attracting significant investment in research and development. the sector comprises some 5000 to 6000 enterprises with a total workforce in europe of approximately 300 000. in croatia, the community of shipbuilding equipment manufacturers has about 180 members manufacturers of components, assemblies, devices, equipment and services. these producers employ 26000 workers and on average 20% of their production is dedicated exclusively to shipbuilding. accordingly, i support the commission's proposal which aims to improve the application and implementation of the mechanisms of directive 96/98/ec on marine equipment, ensuring the proper functioning of the internal market for marine equipment and ensuring a high level of safety of ships and crew at sea and the prevention of marine pollution. i agree with the rapporteur that this proposal should result in stimulating the shipbuilding industry and encouraging the creation of new jobs, and the timely transposition of the imo standard into eu law should have a cost-cutting effect, making the sector more competitive.
written. - i consider it necessary to adopt this directive of the european parliament and of the council on the harmonisation of the laws of the member states relating to the making available on the market of pressure equipment, as the inconsistent implementation and application in the member states of existing union harmonisation has proven to make it very difficult for economic operators and competent authorities to interpret and apply the legislation correctly. this has led to unequal conditions on the market and the placing on the market of unsafe products, and the adoption of this directive will result in a simpler environment for products and thus contribute to improving the functioning of the single market. i stress the need to increase the confidence of economic operators and consumers and to provide more effective market surveillance control tools in order to reduce the number of non-compliant and unsafe products on the market.
written. - decision no 768/2008/ec established modules for conformity assessment procedures which include procedures from the most mild to the most severe, proportionate to the degree of risk involved and the level of safety required. in order to ensure cross-sectoral consistency and to avoid ad hoc variants, the conformity assessment procedures should be selected from among those modules. in order to ensure that the essential safety requirements are met, the commission should be able to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 264 concerning the harmonisation of the conditions for the placing on the market and the conditions for use of pressure equipment. those procedures should be determined taking into account the level of danger posed by such pressure equipment. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the conditions for the authorisation of pressure equipment for use in the manufacture of pressure equipment.
written. - the brussels i regulation is the basis of judicial cooperation in the eu in the field of civil law. it covers a wide range of issues, covering not only binding but also substantive legal relationships. it determines the jurisdiction for the settlement of cross-border disputes and ensures the unimpeded recognition and enforcement of judgments given in another member state. the regulation is generally considered to be a success, but shortcomings have been identified that now need to be addressed. the proposal aims to remove the remaining obstacles to the free movement of judgments in accordance with the principle of mutual recognition. judicial cooperation and trust between member states is at a high level and the conditions have been created for the creation of a simpler and cheaper system for the circulation of judgments and the elimination of existing formalities between member states. the amendments relating to the unified patent court are intended to establish the international jurisdiction of that court. the court of justice should be able to rule on disputes involving third-country defendants on the basis of a subsidiary rule of jurisdiction in a specific case where a union claimant brings proceedings before a common court against a third-country defendant in respect of an infringement of a european patent which has caused damage inside and outside the eu.
written. - the agreement on a single patent court will avoid multiple proceedings that could be brought before 28 different national courts. the joint tribunal should be able to adjudicate disputes involving third-country defendants on the basis of a subsidiary rule of jurisdiction in a specific case where a union claimant brings proceedings before the joint tribunal against a third-country defendant in respect of an infringement of a european patent which has caused damage inside and outside the union. the joint court should exercise such subsidiary jurisdiction where the property belonging to the defendant is situated in one or more member states which are parties to the agreement establishing a joint court and the dispute in question is sufficiently connected with one or more of those member states because, for example, the claimant is domiciled there or because evidence relating to that dispute is located there. in establishing its jurisdiction on that basis, the common court should take into account the value of the property in question, which should not be insignificant and which should allow at least partial enforcement of the judgment in the member states party to the agreement establishing the common court. i believe that this will create a system of uniform patent protection throughout the european union.
written. - the single patent system is extremely important for the european union. until now, we have seen a complicated system of patent protection that has been costly and time-consuming, and has resulted in a low number of patents being filed in the european union. since innovation is what drives society, it is essential to enable inventors and businesses to establish cheaper, simpler and more effective patent protection. the unified patent court shall have exclusive jurisdiction in matters relating to the validity of the european patent. this will eliminate the risk of multiple litigation in different countries over the same patent and the risk of different decisions on the same patent. it is also necessary to regulate disputes with third-country defendants in disputes concerning at least one member state. i consider it essential that the single european patent court regulation should enter into force as soon as possible and therefore support this report.
written. - the adoption of the brussels i regulation on jurisdiction and the recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters brought about several important reforms, the most significant of which was the facilitation of enforcement in a member state of judgments given in a member state other than the one in which enforcement is to be carried out. it is very important to note that an agreement was reached on the adoption of a patent package consisting of two regulations and the agreement on a unified patent court. i believe that this will create a system of uniform patent protection throughout the european union. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to amend this regulation by supplementing it with new provisions. the changes mentioned above will certainly have an impact on the european court of justice, which is currently the only court common to the member states. i agree with the rapporteur that for the successful application of the brussels i regulation the unified patent court and the european court of justice must be accepted and respected in the same way as the national courts of the member states. i also support his view that special attention should be paid to the rules applicable to third-country accused persons who are not normally covered by the rules of the brussels i regulation.
written. - i supported the amendments to regulation 1215/2012 concerning the unified patent court which are intended to establish the international jurisdiction of that court and do not affect the internal allocation of cases between the divisions of the court or the arrangements in the upc agreement concerning the exercise of jurisdiction during the transitional period provided for by that agreement. the joint tribunal should be able to settle disputes involving third-country defendants on the basis of a subsidiary rule of jurisdiction in a specific case where a union claimant brings proceedings before the joint tribunal against a third-country defendant in respect of an infringement of a european patent which has caused damage inside and outside the union.
written. - the surveys for eurostat have recently been supplemented by an ad hoc module on a subject which changes every year. this appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the purchase, hire, maintenance and repair of equipment and installations, and the purchase of equipment and installations for the construction and operation of the railway network. the fact is that ad hoc modules have a mainly european dimension and that the collection of additional information on a subject which changes every year generates new administrative costs. the main objective of this proposal is to align the relevant provisions to the system of delegated and implementing acts and to introduce a legal basis for future grants to the national statistical institutes in the form of lump sums and without competitive tendering to facilitate funding. i believe that any quality initiative must start from a quality evaluation of the existing situation and that it is therefore essential to ensure the unhindered collection of data at european level.
written. - i welcome the amendments to this regulation which focus on alignment with the new rules of the treaty on the functioning of the european union and relate to the reclassification of the commission's powers in terms of the specification of the content of ad hoc modules which are an important instrument of european labour market surveillance, but also a number of technical clarifications such as the minimum sample size of respondents. whereas the development of better and more effective strategies to combat unemployment requires accurate and precise data on the current state of unemployment; it is therefore important to have reliable and objective data on employment rates, while of course respecting citizens' right to privacy, and not placing an unnecessarily large financial or administrative burden on member states.
written. - i support this proposal for a regulation which establishes a legal basis for future grants to the national statistical institutes in the form of lump sums and without competitive tendering. the collection of additional information for ad hoc modules has been shown to generate new administrative costs and to encounter difficulties in obtaining the full cooperation of the member states and their national statistical institutes in the implementation of the modules. in order to maximise the use of data provided by national authorities by eurostat, these surveys need to be carried out in a consistent manner in all member states and more efforts should be made to obtain the full cooperation of the member states.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the application of the principle of equal treatment for men and women in employment and occupation is based on the principle of equal treatment for men and women. the new regulation does not contain any substantive changes, except for a proposal for a new provision allowing the commission to grant a direct financial contribution to those member states of the union which implement the prescribed survey models. the proposal is aimed at improving the quality and efficiency of labour market statistics without encroaching on the competences of the member states of the union and has therefore received my support.
written. - due to the extension of the scope of action to include marine pollution from ships and oil and gas installations, additional funding should be provided to the european maritime safety agency (emsa). the agency's work in the field of pollution prevention and preparedness for pollution response has not only financial benefits but also added non-monetary value. in order to ensure the consistent application of the principles of sound financial management and sound financial management, the emsa should be able to provide the necessary financial support to the emsa to ensure that the emsa is able to meet its obligations under the emsa regulation. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. its fleet can react quickly and in cooperation with national forces thoroughly clean up the polluted coast. the agency should play an active role in maintaining and further developing the satellite imagery service for monitoring, early detection of pollution and responsible vessels or oil and gas installations. this system should improve the availability of data and the efficiency of the pollution response, and should also speed up the initial response and the provision of appropriate support facilities.
written. - i support this report because it is important for croatia for its sea. the agency's work in the field of pollution prevention and preparedness for pollution response has not only financial benefits but also added value. the devastating environmental impact and the huge economic costs of potential pollution-causing accidents, the negative socioeconomic impacts on other sectors such as tourism or fisheries are just some of the reasons for funding the agency in sufficient amounts and for its importance. it is of the utmost importance to preserve the safety and purity of the sea, since croatia's economic and cultural progress depends greatly on it. in recent years, croatia has had problems with the pollution of the adriatic coast, especially in the area of pelješac, by trash coming from albania. oil pollution is the worst form of marine pollution, with an estimated 100,000 tons of oil spilled into the adriatic sea each year. the disastrous effects are caused by the absorption of oxygen by oil spills, which destroy the marine life. although the adriatic is one of the cleanest seas in the world, if we do not take preventive measures to prevent oil spills and other pollution, that could change.
written. - the work of the maritime safety agency in the field of pollution action is of the utmost importance to prevent pollution from accidental or intentional spills of harmful chemicals, which is of inestimable tangible as well as intangible value for environmental protection and environmental sustainability. in this respect, and especially in view of the agency's extended responsibilities in relation to timely response to pollution, such as oil platforms, the work of the agency requires sufficient funding and i consider that the guarantee of eur 160 million until 2020 is sufficient, with an adjustment of up to 8%. i consider that amount to be sufficient to enable the agency to fulfil its responsibilities effectively and in a timely manner and therefore i support this regulation.
written. - i voted in favour of the proposal to fund the european maritime safety and pollution prevention agency and i believe that funding the agency is of crucial importance. the agency's activities have not only financial benefits but also added value in terms of the risk of detrimental environmental impacts, huge economic costs and socio-economic impacts on, for example, tourism and fisheries, which cause pollution. i agree with the rapporteur that the agency should play an active role in maintaining and developing the satellite imagery surveillance service, which would contribute to the early detection of pollution and improve the efficiency of the pollution response. the work of the agency is of particular importance for croatia and the adriatic sea, whose seabed is a large area for oil and gas exploration. every second, about 100 m3 of waste water is poured into the adriatic sea, and if you take into account the 40,000 ships that pass through that waterway every year, with approximately 30 million tonnes of cargo in our ports, not to mention the waste oil from ships and industries on the coast.
written. - i did not support this report because i believe that the multiannual funding of the european gnss agency (gsa) should be the responsibility of the member states, according to their needs, not at the level of the european union. i believe that with the proper allocation of the current budget without further increases, the agency could play an active role in maintaining and further developing the satellite imagery service for monitoring, early detection of pollution and responsible vessels or oil and gas installations.
mr vice-president, it is important that i support the report by mrs mcintyre on how the european union can contribute to creating a favourable environment for business and business activities of newly created enterprises with a view to job creation. i believe that smes are the main driver of economic growth in the european union, and in my country, croatia. in the european union, more than 90% of business activities are small and medium-sized enterprises, and this number is extremely high in croatia. the youth unemployment rate reaches 23%, in croatia as high as 52%. i believe that in this respect the role of strengthening and supporting and encouraging smes can help to address this acute problem of our society and i think that programmes such as erasmus for young entrepreneurs are also extremely useful to further stimulate entrepreneurial activity. the commission should therefore be able to take into account the specificities of the different types of insurance cover.
mr president, i supported this report because it is particularly important. entrepreneurship is the engine of the european union's overall economy and a key element in increasing competitiveness and job creation. the largest proportion of entrepreneurs, 99.8% in the category, are micro, small and medium-sized enterprises and they are the main drivers of economic growth, innovation, employment and social integration. these are all objectives of the 2020 strategy adopted at eu level. the european union as a whole, and in particular individual member states, in particular the republic of croatia, must work on simplifying administrative procedures related to the opening of companies and businesses, on the stability of the legal and fiscal system, the opening of favourable sources of financing and the development of support institutions that will boost entrepreneurship and help entrepreneurs to better position themselves and improve competitiveness.
mr president, i believe that it is crucial for member states to implement measures to stimulate job creation and, accordingly, to facilitate the process of setting up businesses in order to initiate the growth trend of the economy. in croatia, where i come from, there is currently a dull and inert bureaucracy, as well as high start-up costs, and all of this is forcing entrepreneurs to flee to a more favorable business environment like in some countries where you can register a company within 24 hours with minimal start-up costs. i also believe that it is necessary to harmonise the school system with labour market trends and needs in order to avoid the generation of staff lacking the necessary skills to work in modern working conditions. the number of entrepreneurs is in a steady decline, and as it is scientifically proven that entrepreneurs generate jobs and economic growth, national policies should encourage self-employment and the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, which we all work on together.
written. - unemployment is europe's biggest social challenge. in 2013, the unemployment rate in the eu was 11% and in some member states it was over 20%. small, medium and micro enterprises currently provide 90 million jobs in the private sector in the eu. i believe there is enormous potential for job creation, growth and innovation. given that 85% of all new jobs in the last 10 years have come from smes, we need to ensure that they can be established, developed and grow without hindrance. this requires the removal of unnecessary barriers that impose disproportionate costs on businesses and obstacles to their growth, job creation and global competition. i am aware that the number of eu citizens who want to be self-employed has fallen from 45% to 37% in the last 3 years, and that is why it is important to nurture entrepreneurship from a young age all the way through to university. i welcome the innovative initiatives that help entrepreneurs: the create programme, erasmus for young entrepreneurs and the entrepreneurship strategy 2020. teaching entrepreneurship skills and programmes to learn about the functioning and interaction of the market, economic and financial system should be introduced in primary education systems. a well-prepared business plan is the first step towards more successful financing and sustainability. that is why i support this report.
written. - the primary objective of the report, as stated by the rapporteur, was to identify the excessive burden, inconsistencies and ineffectiveness of employment and social protection legislation that have a negative impact on smes and micro-enterprises. i agree that the single market and the potential of europe's human capital have an important role to play in achieving the employment-related objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. it is interesting to note that smes have a great potential and to bear in mind that they are responsible for 85% of new jobs. i support the report by mrs mcintyre, especially at a time when unemployment is at record levels in many member states and is therefore the biggest social challenge facing europe at the moment. croatia is a country with a small domestic market where the manufacturing industry is the main source of exports. the service sector is also of great importance as just over half of the small businesses in croatia operate in this sector. despite this, there is a negative attitude towards self-employment in croatia and although 54% of citizens consider it desirable, 80% do not believe it is feasible. i welcome the proposals to simplify the procedures for setting up a company, as this would help to create much-needed jobs. it is also necessary to boost the growth of self-employed citizens in the eu, which has been declining in recent years.
written. - i welcome the report by rapporteur mcintyre which stresses that the business sector can only create jobs if a market allows it, which must be sufficiently flexible in terms of a skilled workforce whose price is complementary to productivity, whose social system makes work attractive and whose rules are proportionate and based on practice. i am particularly pleased with the rapporteur's emphasis on smes as a key factor in the development of the union's economy, given that 85% of new jobs in the last 10 years have come from smes. the rapporteur also rightly points out that, given that the number of union citizens who want to be self-employed has fallen from 45% to 37% in the last 3 years, it is important to nurture entrepreneurship from early youth and during university and to ensure the survival of honest entrepreneurs by giving them a second chance. the commission has also received a number of complaints from the member states concerning the lack of transparency in the implementation of the union's financial rules. in view of the above, this excellent report, which asks legislators to ensure that the regulations they enact encourage job creation and do not impose disproportionate or unreasonable burdens on the business sector, has my full support.
written. - our lives are increasingly being digitized and this has given us new opportunities and this is a challenge for the education sector. i am aware of the advantages of new technologies that must be exploited, but one should not neglect the value of traditional methods. i believe that the european union should support the education and professional development of teachers in relation to ict and promote the use of oer. in view of the current economic crisis and the high rate of youth unemployment, one of the increasingly important challenges facing member states is the provision of quality education to young people. with the increasing growth of the digital sphere, today's teachers need to be adequately trained to incorporate ict into their pedagogical practices. the gap between the everyday use of digital technologies and their use in education and training institutions needs to be reduced. it is good to encourage cooperation between european education and training institutions to enable the development of oer. in the field of education and training, it is essential to continue to improve existing and promote innovative methods of learning and teaching. oer can make a strong contribution to achieving the objectives of the entrepreneurship strategy 2020 and make lifelong learning a reality.
written. - open educational resources are useful for both students and lecturers - while students directly benefit from free access to free or low-cost professional seminars or even entire study programs on the internet, lecturers can use other people's materials and techniques to enhance their own teaching. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on open educational resources, in particular by ensuring that the union's citizens are able to access quality education and training. the commission should also be able to provide information on the impact of the digital transformation on the quality of life of citizens and businesses, in particular by providing information on the impact of the digital transformation on the quality of life of citizens and businesses.
written. - i support the union's open educational resources programme, which has at its heart the potential to facilitate access and development that can improve education systems. open educational resources create opportunities for learning and teaching in new and interesting ways for individuals as well, such as teachers, students and learners of all ages. we must emphasise that a basic level of literacy and numeracy skills, communication skills, as well as generic skills such as critical thinking and how-to counselling, are prerequisites for the successful development of digital skills and the use of online educational materials, such as open educational resources. the launch of the new open education europa portal in all eu languages, which will provide a single access to european open educational resources, will contribute to strong development. member states should use the available financial resources from the european structural and investment funds to reduce the digital divide in the area by improving infrastructures and networks and supporting training in information and communication technologies, and to guide its proper use, taking into account the needs of educational institutions. particular attention should be paid to rural and remote areas. the use of eu funds requires the linkage between different programmes and tools for the purpose of progress, including erasmus+, horizon 2020 and the structural and investment funds.
written. - i welcome the commission communication setting out a union programme in the field of open educational resources, which focuses on the potential of these resources to facilitate access to and equal participation in education and to further diversify them. in order to benefit from open educational resources, action towards universal digital education, focusing on good practices and their promotion in different settings, should be supported. open educational resources create opportunities for learning and teaching in innovative ways for individuals, such as teachers, students and learners of all ages, and for educational and training institutions.
written. - wild fauna and flora in their many extraordinary and diverse forms are irreplaceable parts of the earth's natural systems that must be protected for this and future generations. aware of the steady increase in the value of wild fauna and flora from an aesthetic, scientific, cultural, recreational and economic point of view, i support this regulation. the european community regulation of 9 december 1996 on the protection of species of wild fauna and flora by regulating trade regulates trade in protected animal and plant species in the european union, i.e. it constitutes the legal basis for the implementation of the cites convention on the territory of the european union, signed in 1973. it aims to ensure that international trade does not threaten their survival. the republic of croatia is a signatory to all relevant international regulations in the field of nature protection. the amendment should confer powers on the commission, in particular to establish the draft, models and formats of certain documents in order to facilitate the adoption of uniform conditions for the implementation of this regulation.
written. - international trade today threatens nearly 35,000 species of wild animals and plants, which have therefore been placed under cites protection. cites provides for the supervision of international trade in specimens of selected species. the convention provides for a system of authorisations for the import and export or re-export of species listed in the convention. i have supported proposed amendments to cites that will help prevent uncontrolled international trade and commercial exploitation of endangered species. currently, 926 species listed by cites are threatened with extinction and trade in these species is prohibited. for other cites species, trade is regulated by a permit system to ensure that it is legal, sustainable and can be monitored.
written. - i support the conclusion of the above protocol. the republic of seychelles is one of the most maritime countries in the world, with fishing and tourism as the dominant economic sectors. the expansion of fishing and related industries in this island nation began with the signing of fisheries agreements with the european union and japan in the 1980s. since then, seychelles and the eu have signed a series of agreements regulating mutual cooperation in the fisheries industry. i believe that the signing of the agreement is in the interest of both parties. the activity of foreign fishing fleets in seychelles' national waters is the main source of revenue and financial stability of the seychelles' national economy. the signing of the agreement also allows european fleets to be present in the strategically most important area of the indian ocean for tuna fishing. japan, china, south korea, the philippines and taiwan are also active in the indian ocean and have a long tradition of tuna fishing. i therefore stress once again the importance of the presence of european fleets in the seychelles. the positive aspect is that it will create a number of jobs for the people of seychelles, especially for fishermen.
written. - i supported this report in view of the close cooperation between the european union and seychelles, in particular under the cotonou agreement, and the common interest in promoting the introduction of responsible fishing to ensure the long-term conservation and sustainable exploitation of living marine resources. the parties undertake to promote responsible fishing in seychelles' waters on the basis of the principle of non-discrimination between the different fleets fishing in those waters, without prejudice to agreements concluded by developing states within that geographical region, including fisheries agreements on the basis of reciprocity.
written. - the main objective of this protocol is to provide fishing opportunities for european union vessels in the fishing zones of the union of the comoros and to strengthen cooperation between the union and the union of the comoros. a partnership framework will be established to develop sustainable fisheries policies and the sound use of fisheries resources in the fishing zones of the union of the comoros. the agreement allows eu vessels, mainly from spain, portugal, france and italy, to fish in comorian waters and is part of the indian ocean tuna agreement. i support this protocol because it will benefit both sides and create new jobs and generate wealth. the financial contributions provided for in the fisheries partnership agreement will amount to a total of eur 1,800,000 over the whole period.
written. - i supported the signing of the protocol between the european union and the union of the comoros setting out the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for in the fisheries partnership agreement in force between the two parties. the new protocol covers a period of three years from 1 january 2014, the date of the start of the provisional application laid down in article 13. the main objective of the protocol to the agreement is to offer fishing opportunities to european union vessels in the union of the comoros's fishing zone within the limits of the available surplus and to strengthen cooperation between the european union and the union of the comoros in order to establish a partnership framework for the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and responsible exploitation of fisheries resources in the union of the comoros's fishing zones in the interest of both parties. the commission's negotiating position was based, inter alia, on the results of an ex-post evaluation carried out by external experts.
written. - i support the conclusion of the above protocol. i consider it very important to maintain the existing cooperation in the tuna fisheries sector with the countries of the indian ocean. these agreements allow for large quantities of tuna to be caught and, consequently, for the european union to become a global player in this market. this protocol covers the period 2013-2014 and provides for the operation of 96 eu fishing vessels. i consider that the annual payment to madagascar of eur 1 525 000 is acceptable because the tuna market is growing rapidly. the current political circumstances in madagascar, which are not alarming but call for caution, should be taken into account. i also advocate absolute transparency of information. the new protocol provides for the exchange of information on the fishing activities of eu vessels in malagasy waters between the european union and madagascar. it is necessary to implement an electronic exchange of data to facilitate the surveillance and control of the eu fleet.
written. - on 15 november 2007, the council adopted regulation (ec) no 31/2008 on the conclusion of the fisheries partnership agreement between the european community and the republic of madagascar. i supported the new protocol setting out the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for in the partnership agreement. the new protocol grants fishing opportunities to union vessels in waters over which the republic of madagascar exercises its sovereignty or jurisdiction as regards fisheries. the allocation of fishing opportunities allocated to the union under the new protocol is set out in council regulation (eu) no 1258/2013.
written. - i welcome and support the framework agreement between the european union and korea on readmission issues which will strengthen their cooperation with each other. korea is not only one of the union's most important partners, but also a country with which we share values that we consider to be the fundamental values of europe. the european parliament gave its consent to the signing of an agreement aimed at strengthening cooperation in the field of preventing and controlling illegal migration. i call on both parties to negotiate, sign and ratify a genuine readmission agreement. i believe that an open and secure union is needed and i welcome measures to tackle irregular migration.
written. - relations between the eu and the republic of korea are based on the framework agreement on trade and cooperation which entered into force in 2001. in 2008, the council authorised the commission to draw up a new framework agreement with korea, which was signed in seoul in may 2010. the new framework agreement with korea would allow the eu to take on greater responsibility and influence on the korean peninsula. the union and the republic of korea will continue to cooperate closely in the field of human rights and democracy, including through the establishment of a specialised office for human rights and democracy in the republic of korea. taking into account the statistics that south korea is the 10th largest trading partner of the union and the eu is the 4th largest export destination of korea, i hope that these figures will continue to grow and that we will cooperate even more with korea in other areas of mutual interest such as science and technology, energy, environment and tourism. i think it will be very important for korea and croatia to cooperate in tourism, because every year the number of visitors from korea and asia is increasing. this new agreement will allow for the deepening of relations and cooperation between korea and croatia as well as with the other member states of the union.
written. - the framework agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of korea, of the other part, was signed on 10 may 2010. i supported the new framework agreement which will allow the eu to take on greater responsibility and influence on the korean peninsula. the new eu framework agreement will promote european values and enhance cooperation on specific issues in various areas of common interest. the conclusion of the new framework agreement is also in line with the eu's objective of creating a comprehensive and coherent economic and political framework for relations between the eu and asean countries.
written. - the eu-korea framework agreement, with the exception of readmission issues, will allow the european union to assume greater responsibility and influence on the korean peninsula, and for this reason i support the european parliament's decision to give its consent to its conclusion. this agreement, signed in 2010, covers a wide range of international issues such as human rights, cooperation in the fight against terrorism, energy security, climate change, etc. the agreement is currently undergoing the national ratification procedure in all member states. the agreement is also of great importance as it will further enhance cooperation on global challenges where the european union as well as korea have an important role to play. i call for further strengthening of cooperation and for frequent political dialogue.
written. - relations between the eu and the republic of korea are based on the framework agreement on trade and cooperation which entered into force in 2001. in 2008, the council authorised the commission to draw up a new framework agreement with korea, which was signed in may 2010 in seoul. the new framework agreement with korea would allow the eu to take on greater responsibility and influence on the korean peninsula. the union and the republic of korea will continue to cooperate closely in the field of human rights and democracy, including through the establishment of a specialised office for human rights and democracy in the republic of korea. taking into account the statistics that south korea is the 10th largest trading partner of the union and the eu the 4th largest export destination of korea, i hope that these figures will continue to grow and that we will cooperate even more with korea in other areas of mutual interest such as science and technology, energy, environment and tourism. i think it will be very important for korea and croatia to cooperate in tourism, because every year the number of visitors from korea and asia is increasing. this new agreement will allow for the deepening of relations and cooperation between korea, both with croatia and with the other member states of the union.
written. - 1 july 2013 marks the second anniversary of the free trade agreement (fta) between the european union and its member states and the republic of korea, which has been provisionally applied since july 2011. after two years of implementation, it is clear that the fta has worked well in terms of developing bilateral trade, especially for the eu. the commission also noted that the fta was not a temporary measure, but was a temporary measure that was intended to be implemented in the future. accordingly, i supported the ratification and implementation of the framework agreement.
written. - i voted in favour because this report is purely technical in nature and asks the european parliament to vote on the decision to conclude, on behalf of the european union and its member states, on the one hand, and the republic of montenegro, on the other, the protocol to the stabilisation and association agreement, in order to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union.
written. - i agree that the european parliament gives its consent to the conclusion of the protocol to the partnership and cooperation agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and georgia, of the other part, to the framework agreement between the european union and georgia on the general principles for the participation of georgia in union programmes. i believe that the gradual opening of certain union programmes and agencies to the participation of countries that are part of the european neighbourhood policy will contribute to the promotion of reform, modernisation and transition in the union's neighbourhood. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council. this is also a way to provide an opportunity to promote further cultural, educational, technical and scientific links between the union and georgia and to enrich people-to-people contacts and sectoral cooperation.
written. - the gradual opening-up of certain union programmes and agencies to the participation of the esp partner countries under the european neighbourhood policy (enp) is one of a number of measures to promote reform, modernisation and transition in the european union's neighbourhood. this policy aspect was further elaborated by the commission in its communication of december 2006 on a general approach allowing the european neighbourhood policy partner countries to participate in community agencies and programmes. i have supported this statement of assent to the conclusion of the protocol to the eu-georgia partnership and cooperation agreement allowing georgia to participate in community programmes and in the work of individual agencies as a measure to foster reform, modernisation and transition in the neighbourhood. this will allow for the promotion of further cultural, educational, environmental, technological and scientific links, with increased sectoral cooperation and the strengthening of political relations within the eastern partnership.
written. - council decision 2009/831/ec authorised portugal to apply reduced rates of excise duty in the autonomous region of madeira to locally produced and consumed rum and liqueurs and in the autonomous region of the azores to locally produced and consumed liqueurs and spirits until 31 december 2013. considering that this measure will continue to stimulate economic activity in these outermost regions and will not have a negative effect on the internal market, i agree that it should continue to apply. these two regions, known as the outermost regions, face a number of difficulties caused by geographical features that include in particular their remoteness, the fact that they are islands, their small size, their unfavourable topography and climate. they are economically dependent on a small number of products and this constitutes a limitation on their future development potential. therefore, it is of great importance for these regions that this measure continues to be implemented.
written. - council decision 2009/831/ec of 10 november 2009 authorising portugal to apply the reduced rate of excise duty in the outermost regions of madeira and the azores at the local level of production and consumption of rum, liqueur and eaux-de-vie. this measure was introduced on the basis of the perceived persistent difficulties affecting the economic and social conditions in the 'outermost regions'. the derogation expired on 31 december 2013 and portugal has requested an extension of that authorisation until 31 december 2020. i have decided to vote against this report because i believe that this measure gives an unjustified advantage to two member states (in this case france and spain) as well as to other member states which also have their peripheral regions, and could all, in principle, request individual exemptions.
written. - council decision 2002/546/ec authorised spain to apply, until 30 june 2014, an exemption or reduction in the aiem (arbitrio sobre importaciones y entregas de mercancías en las islas canarias) to local products produced in the canary islands, in order to strengthen competitiveness and compensate for the additional costs of production due to geographical isolation, raw material, energy dependence, the small size of local markets and the low level of export activity. considering that this measure will continue to stimulate economic activity in these outermost regions and will not have a negative effect on the internal market, i agree that it should continue to apply. this region, like the other outermost regions, faces a number of difficulties caused by geographical features, in particular the remoteness, the fact that it is an island, its small size, the unfavourable topography and climate. it is economically dependent on a small number of products and this constitutes a limitation on its future development potential. the commission notes that the measure is not intended to provide a guarantee for the beneficiaries.
written. - the competent spanish authorities requested the commission on 4 march 2013 to prepare a council decision granting spain an exemption from or a reduction in the aiem tax for certain products produced locally in the canary islands for the period 2014-2020 and amending the list of products and the maximum rates applicable to some of them. this measure was introduced on the basis of the perceived persistent difficulties affecting the economic and social conditions in the 'outermost regions'. i have decided to vote against this report because i believe that this measure gives an unjustified advantage to spain, france and portugal over other member states which also have their peripheral regions, and could all, in principle, request individual exemptions.
written. - council decision 2004/162/ec authorised france to apply exemptions or reductions from the dock dues to products from the french outermost regions, in order to enhance competitiveness and compensate for the additional costs of production due to geographical distance, raw material, energy dependence, the small size of local markets and the low level of export activity. i support this report which extends the period of application of this measure for an additional 6 months to allow the commission to complete its analysis and present a coherent offer which will take into account the interests of all parties involved. considering that this measure will continue to stimulate economic activity in these outermost regions and will not have a negative effect on the internal market, i agree that it should continue to apply. the french overseas departments, like all the other outermost regions, face a number of difficulties caused by geographical features, in particular their remoteness, their small size, their insularity, their unfavourable topography and climate. they are economically dependent on a small number of products and this constitutes a limitation on their future development potential. it is therefore of great importance for these overseas departments that this measure continues to be implemented.
written. - this measure authorises france to apply exemptions or reductions from the dock dues to a range of products produced in the french outermost regions until 1 july 2014 in order to improve competitiveness and compensate for the extra costs of production due to isolation. this measure was introduced on the basis of the perceived persistent difficulties affecting the economic and social conditions in the 'outermost regions'. i have decided to vote against this report because i believe that this measure gives an unjustified advantage to france, spain and portugal over other member states which also have their peripheral regions, and could all, in principle, request individual exemptions.
written. - i supported this report primarily because the relevant amendments to the rules of procedure of parliament further improve the efficiency of the work, that is, the way decisions are taken in this body, by introducing methods that guarantee complete objectivity, of which i would highlight as the most important additional elaboration and establishment of guidelines for the admissibility of the matter. i also support the amendments concerning the participation of commissioners in plenary sessions.
written. - each session shall provide the commission with 90 minutes of question time on one or more specific horizontal topics, to be decided by the conference of presidents one month before the session. each member may also put questions to the president of the european council, to the council, to the commission or to the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy and request a written reply. i support the report on amendments to the rules of procedure of the european parliament relating to parliamentary questions. those amendments shall enter into force on the first day of the first session of the eighth parliamentary term. i particularly welcome the decision to change the 'catch the eye' method to be replaced by a voting system, as this will ensure full objectivity in the selection of speakers. one hour before question time, a ballot box will be placed at the entrance to the town hall and members who wish to ask a question will be asked to write their name on a form and put it in the box. the president will then, after the ballot box has closed, take out the form one by one and invite the elected member to put his question to the commissioner responsible. the representative shall have one minute to ask questions and two minutes to answer questions.
written. - i supported the report by ms zita gurmai on amendments to parliament's rules of procedure relating to parliamentary matters because i believe that it enhances the parliamentary affairs instrument in a balanced and qualitative way. the amendment of rule 116 of the rules of procedure on questions to members within the 'question time' set for that purpose in plenary sessions achieves an important element of neutrality, since questions are not submitted in advance and are not subject to scrutiny, and the removal of the names of members from the 'ballot box' guarantees equal treatment of all members. i welcome the amendments to rules 117 and 118 of the rules of procedure on questions to be put to other bodies and institutions in writing with a request for a written reply, as i consider that limiting the number of questions solves the problem of an excessive number of disjointed questions that are asked in order to achieve more representative activities and thus unnecessarily burden the work of the institutions. any amendment to parliament's rules of procedure should aim to strengthen parliament's role as the central institution representing the citizens of the european union and exercising effective control over the other bodies and institutions of the european union. questions put by members to other eu bodies and institutions are a key instrument of direct parliamentary scrutiny and it was important to initiate the procedure for amending the rules of procedure in this area.
written. - i think it was necessary to revise the format of the commission's question time in order to improve its quality. the commissioners' departments invited by the conference of presidents to participate are linked to that specific horizontal topic or themes on which questions are to be asked, ensuring that questions are asked by competent people in those areas. the way in which the members who wish to put questions to one of the commissioners will be chosen is fair, since all members who wish to put questions are on an equal footing and none of them has a preference over others. the questions and answers will be published on parliament's website, thus contributing to greater transparency and better public information.
written. - this report focuses on two procedures, the procedure for the question time to the commission in plenary and the procedure for written questions to the commission. with regard to the time for questions to the commission in plenary, it is proposed to replace the 'catch the eye' currently applied within the said procedure by a 'speaking time' based on a system of pulling up the submitted forms which would allow members to put a question to the high commissioner on their own behalf. it is proposed that the president of parliament should draw up the forms one by one and invite the elected member to put his question to the commissioner responsible, for which the member would be given one minute. as regards the written question procedure to the commission, the proposed changes are aimed at increasing efficiency and preventing possible abuses of the procedure. the commission has also provided information on the number of questions it has received from the member states, the number of questions it has received from the european parliament and the number of questions it has received from the european parliament. while i am against limiting the right to ask questions to the commission, i consider that this is a worrying fact and that the report, by proposing to limit the number of questions to five per month in electronic format, is moving in the positive direction of improving efficiency and striking a balance between the control of members when asking questions and the effort the commission should put into each reply. that's why i voted yes.
written. - i agree with what mr. martin wrote in his report. although the report's objective is technical, i would stress its importance. i think it's important to refine procedural matters because they're often the key to making the process work. the amendments adopted do a very good job of widening the text. the fourth amendment thus extends the acceptance of the recommendations until the conclusion of the agreement itself, as opposed to the original version which covered only the negotiation phase. the work contained in this report will clarify the role of the european parliament. the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon has considerably strengthened parliament's role, but there is still room for amendment of the rules of procedure. and this report is in support of that.
written. - i supported this report because the amendments in question, inter alia, allow the other committees to give opinions on resolutions relating to international treaties. furthermore, parliament has the possibility at any stage of the negotiations, as well as from the moment of the conclusion of the negotiations until the conclusion of an international agreement, to adopt recommendations and to request that they be taken into account before the conclusion of the international agreement itself. parliament shall be given the opportunity, throughout the procedure leading to the conclusion of the international agreement itself, to explain its position in the form of a recommendation based on the report of the committee responsible. parliament may therefore intervene at any time to further clarify its position in terms of the authorisation required from this body.
written. - i support the report by mr martin on the amendment of rule 90 of the rules of procedure of the european parliament on international agreements. article 90 is part of the chapter on international agreements and of title ii a on external relations. the rules of procedure of the european parliament do not currently allow other committees to give an opinion on decisions relating to international agreements. the european parliament may, at any stage of the negotiations and from the end of the negotiations until the conclusion of an international agreement, accept recommendations and request that they be taken into account before the conclusion of that agreement, in accordance with the amendment of rule 90. the amendment shall take effect on the first day of the next session.
written. - i supported the report by mr david martin on the amendment of rule 90 of the rules of procedure of the european parliament on international agreements, as it was necessary to align it with article 218 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. the lisbon treaty continued the process of recognising and strengthening the role of the european parliament. apart from the co-decision procedure, whereby a decision can only be adopted with the simultaneous consent of the council and parliament, the amendments introduced by the treaty of lisbon make the conclusion of international agreements conditional on the consent of the european parliament. since the rules of procedure of the european parliament are governed by the treaty on european union and the treaty on the functioning of the european union, it was necessary to initiate the procedure for their harmonisation in the section relating to international agreements, and the committee on constitutional affairs, which is responsible for the interpretation and application of the rules of procedure and for proposals for their amendment, has done so in a qualitative manner. the proposed amendments to rule 90 address the issue of parliament's assent or opinion when concluding international agreements, as the rules of procedure more clearly define the period within which parliament gives its assent or opinion. this has resolved an important time-span of application, so that parliament can intervene at any stage of the procedure.
written. - i accept the report on the amendment of rule 90 of parliament's rules of procedure on international agreements to correct the discrepancy between the text of rule 90 (5) and article 218 (5) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, as the latter does not refer to parliament's involvement when the council adopts a decision and authorises the signing of an agreement. i consider it necessary that at every stage of the negotiations and from the conclusion of the negotiations to the conclusion of an international agreement, parliament may intervene at any time to clarify its position with regard to its consent requested. i believe that this will improve the negotiation process itself and that more effort will be put into gathering all the necessary information that could have an impact on the conclusion of the agreement.
written. - i support this technical adaptation which proposes a reform of parliament's consent procedure which goes in the direction of proposing that parliament offer a recommendation at any stage of the international agreement process, including cases where agreements have been agreed but not yet signed, whereas in accordance with the currently applicable rules of the consent procedure parliament's consent has been determined at a precisely specific stage of the process.
written. - european parliament documents may be prepared, signed and served in electronic form. the presidency shall decide on the technical characteristics and the appearance of the electronic format.
written. - i fully supported this report because the amendments to the rules of procedure ultimately result in a way of dealing with this legal issue which leads to the fact that european parliament documents can also be prepared and distributed in electronic form, including signatures. the reference to 'signed and distributed' does not necessarily mean in paper form, but also implies electronic form. the relevant amendments therefore allow for the electronic signature and distribution of documents, taking into account the increasingly progressive use of this mode of operation by parliament's committees, thus allowing for a reduction in printed material and rationalising the time spent on its distribution. it was necessary to support this new working method and the application of new technology, which will be increasingly applied in parliament and which will eventually cover not only the issue of electronic signatures but also the way all types of documents are handled, thus keeping pace with the times.
written. - i support the amendments to the rules of procedure of the european parliament to provide for the possibility of electronic signatures. in accordance with that report, european parliament documents may be prepared, signed and served in electronic form. the report explains that the appearance of the electronic format and the technical characteristics will be decided by the presidency, which will have to define a system that will guarantee simplification of the procedure but prevent counterfeiting.
written. - i supported the report by my colleague, mr györgyi schöpflin, on the amendment of the rules of procedure of the european parliament to provide for the possibility of electronic handling of european parliament documents, as i believe that the implementation and use of an electronic document management system by a large number of organisations, including the european parliament, can bring significant benefits. in the 1990's, the development of computer technology and its practical application brought about a major change in the modern way of doing business. at the level of the european union, projects have been under way for some time to examine the benefits of information technologies in different areas, and i believe that the same should be applied in this institution. as this amendment to the rules of procedure of the european parliament entrusts the presidency with the task of deciding on the technical characteristics and the appearance of the electronic format, i consider that, when making any technical decision, it is necessary to take care to ensure the authenticity of the data in electronic form when choosing the technology. the implementation of appropriate policies and procedures is necessary to create a secure and structured system that can be regularly checked, as the core function of the system is to provide a secure and reliable environment for the digital preparation, signing and delivery of parliament's documents.
written. - i support further progress in computerizing parliament. only total digitalisation, the so-called e-parliament, can achieve significant time savings and simplify procedural work. until now, several committees have been involved in a pilot project which allowed them to sign the memorandum electronically, and only if all committees involved in the project gave their consent to it. this parliament decision aims to make all documents available for preparation, signature and service in electronic form. i consider this decision to be very important because the european parliament must not only follow the trends of informatisation and digitalisation, but must also be at the forefront of such trends. around 6 000 staff work in parliament, so the administration has a very complex task in optimising daily needs. that's a job well done, but why not make it easier when we have the technology to do it?
written. - i supported this report because it introduces the necessary amendments to parliament's rules of procedure to allow electronic handling of documents, especially amendments. accordingly, parliament's documents will be able to be prepared, signed and served in electronic form. the presidency shall decide on the technical characteristics and the appearance of the electronic format.
written. - draft amending budget no 1/2014 refers to a series of adjustments necessary for the implementation of the 2014 budget in line with the adoption of the latest legislative acts, in particular in line with the adjustments necessary for the implementation of the proposed increase of the european investment fund (eif) capital, the changes resulting from the legal basis of horizon 2020 adopted after the formal adoption of the 2014 budget and the adjustments related to the establishment of the budgetary structure of the shift2rail joint undertaking proposal. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the establishment of a european works council. the eif's capital base will be increased to contribute to improving access to finance for smes under cosme and horizon 2020.
the european investment fund (eif) was set up in 1994 as a means of helping small businesses. the eif provides venture capital to small enterprises, in particular start-ups and technology-oriented enterprises. the commission also notes that the bank of greece has not provided any information on the amount of the loan. the eif is not a credit institution and does not grant loans or subsidies to companies or invest directly in companies. the fund operates through banks and other financial intermediaries. it operates in the member states of the european union, turkey and three efta countries. the amendments to the budget should allow for a number of adjustments necessary for the implementation of the 2014 budget in line with the adoption of the latest legislative acts. the eif shall contribute to the development of the union's financial instruments, including the european regional development fund, the european regional development fund and the european social fund. the commission has also provided information on the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2014 and the budget for the following financial year. any amendments to the budget shall be published in the official journal of the european union.
written. - i supported this report as draft amending budget no 1/2014 refers to a series of adjustments necessary for the implementation of the 2014 budget in line with the adoption of the latest legislative acts, and in particular in line with the adjustments necessary for the implementation of the proposed increase of the european investment fund (eif) capital, then the changes arising from the legal basis of horizon 2020 and the adjustments related to the creation of the budgetary structure of the shift2rail joint undertaking proposal. the eif's capital base will also be increased to contribute to improving access to finance for smes under cosme and horizon 2020.
the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the opportunity to present its opinion on the draft recommendation to the european parliament and the council on the introduction of noise-related operating restrictions at union airports. this provision harmonises, clarifies and strengthens the common rules on the decision-making, introduction of noise-related operational restrictions at union airports. the rules cover noise management and are designed to identify the most cost-effective approach to noise restrictions at airports. the commission notes that the airport services agreement concluded between ryanair and ams was signed on the same day. each local authority will retain its right to decide on the measures it will adopt, such as the one on the ban on night flights. i believe that a degree of flexibility is also needed to ensure that legislation is in line with technological developments.
written. - this regulation harmonises, clarifies and strengthens common rules on how decisions are taken on operational noise restrictions at european union airports, such as night flight bans. the rules, which are based on principles agreed by the international civil aviation organisation (icao) and are known as the 'balanced approach', cover the assessment and management of aircraft noise and are intended to determine the most effective way of reducing aircraft noise at each individual airport. the regulation applies only to major airports with more than 50 000 take-offs and landings of civil aircraft per year. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and to monitor the implementation of the new rules.
written. - noise regulations at airports in different member states, if not coordinated, could harm the role of aviation in economic development. the main objective of this regulation is to ensure consistency in the member states in the implementation of the guidelines presented in the document known as the 'balanced approach', where the process of assessing noise reduction targets itself would be based on objective and measurable criteria and consultation with all stakeholders. the commission should be able to assess the impact of the proposed amendments on the safety of the airport infrastructure and on the safety of the passengers. the commission has also received comments from the air safety committee and the air safety committee of the european union.
written. - i supported this report and the proposed restrictions on noisy aircraft. nowadays, with so much attention being paid to environmental protection and ecology, one of the main negative elements present in every part of the human environment, including transport, is noise. air transport is the youngest of the transport sectors, having started to develop rapidly in the 1950's, and its rapid growth is due to the introduction of turbo-jet engines. the introduction of these engines into the air force resulted in the construction of larger, safer, and faster aircraft. given the high power of the turbojet engines, the noise was a side effect, and with the sudden increase in air traffic, the noise became frequent and unbearable. an aircraft as a source of noise reflected on the ground creates noise in several segments: take-off, landing and ground handling. the commission considers that the measure is appropriate to address the specific needs of airlines in the context of the development of the aviation sector. whether it is aircraft noise during takeoff and landing or aircraft noise generated on the ground, local authorities must do their best to protect the surrounding population. the principle of protection by operational procedures is the most common and can be useful for the reasons of modifying corridors and determining the height of approaches above someone areas that are not inhabited.
written. - i am very pleased that we are voting on this proposal today, because its entry into force will allow irish and croatian cities to apply for the european capitals of culture 2020. the title of european capital of culture is an honour recognised in europe and the world, and cities that hold it derive tangible cultural, economic and social benefits. at the end of last year, it seemed that the inability to agree between the european council and the commission on who would be declared the winner of the competition would lead to a complete failure. i called then for conflict resolution so that the cities of the eu's youngest member state could share their rich culture and heritage with the world. the nomination process starts six years in advance, so a compromise had to be reached by this session of parliament. i take this opportunity to thank everyone who has contributed to the agreement, as well as reporters scurria and pack for a job well done.
written. - the european capital of culture is a title awarded to at least one european city during a year. it is a great opportunity to present the city's cultural and historical heritage to the european union. the project began in 1985 and has so far been awarded to 40 cities. the final decision of the european commission, the council and the parliament on the way the city was designated was taken in january this year. the member state shall designate one city in the member state as candidate, while cities in candidate or potential candidate countries shall be proposed directly by the commission. the commission will continue to support the european capital of culture event in the context of the european year of cultural heritage. the commission should also be able to provide the necessary information to the member states in order to ensure that the union's financial interests are protected. in recent years, many croatian cities have expressed interest in the candidacy of their cities. however, it is necessary to ensure equal conditions for croatian cities as for others, including the necessary time for preparation of the candidacy. in conclusion, the project provides an opportunity to revitalize the cultural life of cities, increase their international visibility, stimulate economic and tourist activities, as well as general urban development, and therefore i invite croatian cities to apply to showcase our cultural values and traditions.
written. - i supported this report because the evaluations and public consultations have shown convincingly that european capitals of culture have a number of potential benefits when carefully planned. the main focus remains on cultural initiatives, but they can also bring significant social and economic benefits, especially when they are part of a long-term culture-oriented development strategy of the city. accordingly, the selection criteria should be more clearly defined to provide candidate cities with more guidance on the objectives and requirements of the european capital of culture title and more measurable to assist the expert council in selecting and monitoring cities. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the conditions for the participation of third countries in union programmes in the field of culture.
written. - every year, tens of thousands of whales and dolphins die in the territorial waters of the member states of the european union, and their numbers have declined dramatically in recent decades. studies show that the most common cause of their decline is human activity, which is a great loss, not only because whales and dolphins are endangered but because the entire marine ecosystem is threatened because they, as animals at the top of the food chain, have an important controlling role in keeping the ecosystem stable. it is therefore important to have a rapid and effective system of imposing measures concerning incidental catches of whales and dolphins. i am therefore pleased that the commission is invited to assess the effectiveness of the regulation on the protection of whales and dolphins by 2015, after which amendments will be introduced, if necessary, to ensure their safety.
written. - whale populations have fallen dramatically in recent years, and tens of thousands of marine mammals die every year in eu waters. accidental catches are the most common cause of death for whales and dolphins in the mediterranean. the commission has also concluded that the use of acoustic devices to prevent the accidental capture of whales is not in line with the requirements of the directive. i support the rapporteur's view that a comprehensive legal framework for the protection of whales should be established, modelled on the us marine mammal protection act. in order to ensure the consistent application of the principles of sustainable development and sustainable management of the marine environment, the commission should develop a methodology for the assessment of the impact of incidental catches of whales and dolphins on the marine environment. the commission has also identified a problem of incidental catching of dolphins in the republic of croatia. the republic of croatia is involved in the bycbams project. the main objective of the project is to determine the impact of bycatch on the mediterranean and black sea whale and dolphin populations. the results of this project will serve as a basis for action plans for protection, and the countries involved in this project have committed themselves to actively implement the activities covered by the project.
written. - this report refers to council regulations aimed at preventing or reducing the incidental capture and death of marine mammals such as whales, dolphins and porpoises in eu waters. the numbers of whales, dolphins, and porpoises have been drastically reduced, with thousands dying each year from habitat destruction, ship collisions, and underwater noise and pollution. in line with the above, i support this report and the rapporteur's initiative to establish a legislative framework for the protection of whales modelled on the us marine mammal protection act.
mr president, taking into account the fact that every year around one million european union citizens are sent to work outside their home member state, it is concluded that it is of particular importance to protect this category of workers, especially in times of crisis when their potential and expertise can help them to maintain existing jobs or even create new ones. i support the rapporteur's view on the need for better implementation and application of directive 96/71 on the posting of workers in the framework of the provision of services. it can be concluded that the lack of respect for workers' rights and the lack of access to information, as well as the lack of cooperation between member states, as well as the lack of penalties and sanctions in a cross-border context, represent a major problem. the competent authorities of the host member state should be able to request the competent authorities of the host member state to provide the information required for the purpose of the posting of workers.
written. - every year, over a million workers are sent to work abroad. the objective of this directive is to ensure their protection and the freedom to provide services. the aim is to establish a legislative framework in which posted workers contribute to reducing unemployment. the emphasis is on access to information to make the transfer as easy as possible for the worker. it calls on member states to cooperate in establishing a common network of data and information centres and seeks to remove bureaucratic obstacles that negatively affect the labour market and economic growth. however, the directive does not adequately regulate the equal treatment of posted workers with domestic workers. the position of the socialists and democrats in the european parliament is that equal pay must be ensured for equal work at the same location.
written. - every year, around one million eu citizens go to work in another member state. i agree that this category of workers should be protected, especially in times of crisis, when their potential and competitiveness maintain a certain level of employment and help to create new jobs. improving mobility will contribute to economic growth and stability in the european union. however, i call for better protection of this category of workers and more effective measures to combat social dumping and therefore do not support this report. the report aims to improve the implementation and application in practice of the posting of workers directive, but that directive needs to be revised with a view to protecting the workers to whom it applies.
written. - i supported the report of representative cătălina sorin ivan on new technologies and open educational resources. there is a great disparity in education systems and opportunities for education across the eu member states. and so, in light of that, i think the fundamental idea is to invest in quality education. to give eu citizens an equal chance of getting the education they want. technology is advancing at a rapid pace and with it the need for new skills, which requires investment in further computer education and teacher training. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the digital single market and the digital single market in the medium term. the eu can do much to help with its programmes and to encourage cooperation between member states, and to put emphasis on the use of open educational programmes. some 220 000 students and 40 000 teaching and non-teaching staff are trained annually across the eu through erasmus+, while in croatia erasmus+ is recording the largest increase in europe in the number of students going to study in other eu member states. i believe that it is important for croatia to create a quality education system, to establish an infrastructure for ict technologies, to monitor the work of students and teachers, to redirect the focus to the individual and to provide opportunities for further and additional education of students and teachers.
written. - i supported this directive which establishes a set of specific provisions, measures and control mechanisms to enable member states to ensure better implementation, application and enforcement in practice of directive 96/71/ec, including measures to prevent and punish any abuse and circumvention of the applicable rules. in order to effectively enforce the terms and conditions of employment, it is necessary to counter false self-employment. this is crucial in preventing possible misuse. the responsible authority should have the resources necessary to determine whether allegedly self-employed workers are working extensively consecutively for the same employers.
mr. vice president, cultural heritage is carefully preserved in the present to be passed on to future generations as proof of their identity. the last council directive concerning the return of cultural objects classified as national heritage of the member states was voted in 1993. speaking from the position of the croatian mep, i consider it very important to update and amend this directive. the total number of cultural goods that croatia seeks from the republic of serbia amounts to 25 926. serbian aggression against croatia among others, has left this problem behind. at the meetings of the committee on culture and education in november 2013, i pointed out the need to apply this directive to earlier periods in order to cover the period of the alienation of croatian cultural property in the said aggression, which was taken into account. i therefore thank the commission and the rapporteur for accepting my suggestions and proposals.
mr president, i already spoke about this yesterday when this item was on the agenda and i think it is very important. today we all in croatia supported it, but personally there is one piece of information which is not acceptable, and that is the year 1993, so this directive has been applied since 1993. as regards croatia, as the member of parliament, mrs bušić, said, the greatest number of objects, cultural objects, which unfortunately still have no definition, have been alienated since 1991, when serbia carried out its aggression against croatia. nevertheless, i think that this directive is good and substantially amended, but we must insist on this and, given that negotiations with serbia are under way on accession to the european union, i think that this part should also be included in the closure of certain chapters.
mr vice-president, i also think that this report is very important and it is logical that this aspect, which relates to cultural property that was stolen during the war, that is, the aggression against croatia, is an important political and legal issue for all of us from croatia, which is, among other things, part of the proceedings before the international court of justice in the hague. but in the light of the fact that there are still more than 25 000 movable cultural objects missing for which we want him to return, we would like this secondary eu act to help address this issue as well. the report and the directive are very useful and the fact that we have found more than 10 000 cultural objects illegally removed from the territory of the member states between 2008 and 2011 is already an indicative figure for addressing these issues. we must therefore strengthen the information system and all cooperation between the member states' authorities on this issue.
written. - i express my full support for the motion for a resolution which seeks the return of cultural property illegally removed from the territory of a member state in view of the cultural genocide committed against croatian cultural heritage during the serbian aggression against my homeland. unfortunately, this provision cannot apply to such cases of violent and unlawful removal of cultural goods as they are located in the territory of a third country, but i consider that the proposal establishes an appropriate framework to enable an effective fight against the smuggling of cultural goods, in particular by establishing central authorities which are given the whole range of necessary powers, from publishing information on cultural goods that have been stolen or unlawfully removed from their territory, to informing member states of the discovery of cultural goods on their territories if there is a reasonable suspicion that a cultural good has been unlawfully removed from the territory of another member state, or to inquiring about the member states for certain cultural goods that have been unlawfully removed and the identity of the person who owns the good in question. i also welcome the fact that the directive applies to property which is categorised as national treasures of artistic, historic or archaeological value even after it has been removed from the territory of a member state. that is why i voted in favour of this proposal for a directive.
mr. chairman, given that this is a topic within the purview of my environmental protection committee, the consumption of plastic bags is causing large amounts of waste to be dumped into the environment and an inefficient use of resources and is expected to increase even more if nothing is done. the dumping of plastic bags into the environment is causing pollution and exacerbating the widespread problem of waste, especially in water bodies, threatening aquatic ecosystems around the world, and i'm referring specifically to the world's seas, and here i want to refer to the adriatic sea and the problem of the threat of the adriatic sea related to plastic waste. that's one of the reasons i voted for this motion. states should work to inform citizens, raise awareness of the negative consequences of the use of plastic bags, and all to contribute to the creation of a cleaner and healthier environment.
mr. president, the report by ms. auken on the amendment of the packaging and packaging waste directive to reduce the consumption of lightweight plastic bags. nearly 100 billion plastic bags are consumed each year within the eu, with a trend towards ever-increasing consumption. this means that on average each eu citizen uses almost 200 bags. in addition, 8 billion plastic bags in the european union are leaking into the environment, including the sea, posing not only a problem for the environment but also for the development of tourism potential in coastal areas. i spoke about this and about the particular problem where the croatian beaches around dubrovnik and mljet are also getting plastic waste from albania in the debate in january. the commission notes that the measures in question are not intended to provide a guarantee to the beneficiaries of the aid. i support the compromise solution in the report; member states must reduce the consumption of lightweight bags by 5% within 3 years compared to the 2010 average. i stress the importance of member states taking care of jobs in this sector so as not to jeopardise economic recovery.
written. - we don't think about plastic bags when we're putting things in them at the store or when we're grinding them in the kitchen. they may only make fun of us when we see a report about tons of plastic floating in the sea. i come from a country that lives off the beauty of its nature and the purity of the adriatic sea. tourism is one of the most important sectors of the croatian economy and its growth depends on whether we want to protect the environment. so i'm glad my amendment was passed, which warns of the damage that discarded plastic bags do to tourism. the figure of 8 billion bags thrown away each year is frightening and calls for action. this directive requires member states to reduce the consumption of ultra-thin plastic bags. to achieve this, we need timelines and measures, taking into account, of course, results and good practice. if we do nothing, the bags dumped today may be debated in the european parliament in 2114.
written. - the aim of ms auken's report is to reduce the consumption of lightweight plastic bags, given that, according to 2010 data, each eu citizen uses around 200 plastic bags a year and more than 8 billion of them become waste. these concerns are a serious problem, causing environmental pollution and damaging the quality of water bodies. the fact is that lightweight bags thinner than 50 microns are unsuitable for reuse and are therefore very quickly discarded. i welcome the effort to reduce plastic bags compared to the average use of plastic bags in the european union in 2010. i also agree that charging for plastic bags would reduce and prevent their use and consumption in a fast and sustainable way. citizens need to be made aware of this issue, as the use of these lightweight bags contributes to negative consequences. however, i believe that when discussing and voting on this proposal, the views of the member states should be taken into account, as well as the financial circumstances in the union, where in times of financial crisis this proposal threatens a significant industrial sector.
written. - given the negative impact of plastic bags on the environment, but also on the economy, i welcome any initiative that aims to regulate and prescribe their rational use. in fact, i am particularly interested in this problem, given that every year a large amount of plastic waste coming from third countries ends up on the croatian coast, creating significant environmental and economic damage, given that tourism is one of the strongest branches of the croatian economy. however, i consider that the rapporteur's proposal does not leave sufficient freedom to member states to determine measures to effectively combat the accumulation of plastic bags, in particular by imposing rigorous targets for a sustainable reduction in the consumption of lightweight plastic bags and by imposing an obligation on food business operators to charge an effective and proportionate price for lightweight plastic bags. on the other hand, i welcome the introduction of the obligation to organise a public information campaign and raise awareness of the negative impact of the excessive use of conventional plastic bags on the environment, but for the reasons mentioned above i voted against the proposal.
mr president, i am also interested in this question because in recent years the member states of the european union, and italy in particular, have been faced with a large number of immigrants coming from the mediterranean. the largest number of illegal crossings of international borders is by sea. the number of migrants crossing europe's southern sea borders has been steadily increasing, with the number of migrants in 2010 reaching 10 000 people, in 2011 up by 70 000 people, while in 2012 the number increased by another 20 000 people. the majority of transfers are made through smugglers and the data presented show that swift action is necessary to increase solidarity at union level and to provide support to countries facing this problem. i support the rapporteur's view on the need to take measures to protect the fundamental rights of asylum seekers. the controls at the maritime borders must be carried out in a way that does not compromise the fundamental human rights of immigrants, such as the right to life and respect for the principle of non-refoulement.
mr vice-president, i supported the proposal by mr coelho on the control of the european union's external maritime borders which was made in our committee on libe, and subsequently the judgment of the european court of human rights. the union is demonstrating by this proposal that respect for and protection of internationally established human rights are its fundamental and highest values. the right to life and the principle of non-refoulement must never be derogated from by the needs of protection and border control. it is of the utmost importance that precise and strict legal rules are established in the conduct of surveillance and disembarkation of intercepted persons, guaranteeing in each individual case the protection of fundamental human rights. in light of the foregoing, i welcome the changes that have been made here to the rules on search and rescue, and in particular the obligation to save human lives. the commission should be able to take into account the specific circumstances of the case, including the circumstances of the third country concerned. importantly, the changes indicate an increased degree of solidarity and responsibility sharing of all member states in creating a common system of protection for asylum seekers, and 90[nbsp ]000 people in 2012 speak of the seriousness of this problem which is linked to croatia because of the adriatic sea and, of course, the mediterranean sea and immigration.
written. - effective border control should prevent and deter persons from circumventing border checks at border crossing points. the commission should be able to verify that the border controls carried out by the member states are effective and that the border controls carried out by the member states are effective. the european policy on border control, asylum and immigration and its implementation should be guided by the principle of solidarity and fair sharing of responsibility between member states, including its financial implications. the lack of a union system for sharing cargo contributes to the overloading of member states in the mediterranean. cooperation with neighbouring third countries is essential to prevent unauthorised border crossings, to combat cross-border crime and to organise search and rescue operations more efficiently.
written. - although some eu countries, including croatia as the newest member of the union, are more exposed to the problem of controlling the external maritime borders due to their geographical position, it is extremely important that the union has a common response to this issue. the interoperability of the control systems of the member states and of the competent authorities is a prerequisite for a successful and rapid response to situations related to the surveillance of the external maritime borders. the control of external maritime borders and the union's policies on border control, asylum and immigration and their implementation must, in particular, be guided by the principle of solidarity and respect for human rights. the commission should also be able to provide information on the number of persons who have been forcibly removed from the vessel, including the number of persons who have been forcibly removed from the vessel, the number of persons who have been forcibly removed from the vessel, the number of persons who have been forcibly removed from the vessel, the number of persons who have been forcibly removed from the vessel, the number of persons who have been forcibly removed from the vessel, the number of persons who have been forcibly removed from the vessel, and the number of persons who have been forcibly removed from the vessel. i supported this proposal because i believe that the successful control of external maritime borders does not exclude the protection of fundamental human rights and human dignity.
written. - i supported the proposal to establish rules for the surveillance of the external maritime borders because i believe that it establishes a framework that allows for appropriate and rigorous treatment of migrant smugglers, but also takes into account the need for humane treatment of victims of trafficking within the framework of effective cooperation between member states. i believe that the fight against all forms of smuggling requires the highest level of cooperation, because only in this way will it be possible to combat effectively the very well-connected criminal organisations. on the other hand, i believe that other forms of smuggling at sea, such as the increasingly common drug trafficking in the adriatic, should also be taken into account, given that criminal organisations are now multi-purpose and that the same networks are behind the different forms of smuggling. in view of the above, i believe that a more global approach to external border control is needed.
written. - investment protection agreements concluded by the union may include an investor-state dispute settlement mechanism, which allows a third-country investor to bring an action against the country in which he has made an investment. the commission should be able to impose on the member states the obligation to provide for the protection of the financial interests of the union in accordance with the provisions of this regulation. the commission should be able to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu in order to amend the list of third countries whose investors are subject to the rules on the protection of investors laid down in this regulation. the financial responsibility should be assigned to the entity responsible for the procedure. this means that the union itself should bear the financial responsibility when the procedure in question is carried out by any institution, body, agency or other legal person of the union. the member state concerned should bear the financial responsibility where the procedure in question is carried out by that member state.
written. - the european union is in the process of negotiating investment protection agreements with third countries. the purpose of this provision is to establish a framework for situations in which investors sue the european union. i support the report on financial liability linked to investor-state dispute resolution courts, established by international agreements to which the european union is a party, which allow companies to bring actions against the eu in the event of breach of some key provisions of the agreement. the rapporteur pointed out that, in cases where justified, future investment protection agreements concluded by the union may include an investor-state dispute settlement mechanism, which allows a third-country investor to bring an action against the country in which he made his investment. i also call for as much transparency as possible in terms of financial accountability.
written. - it is common knowledge that the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon gave the union exclusive competence to conclude international investment protection agreements. the union, like the member states, is already a contracting party to the energy charter treaty which provides for investment protection. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules on the application of this regulation. the commission notes that the measure is not imputable to the state, but to the state, and that the state is not obliged to provide the measure. the commission notes that the united kingdom has not provided any evidence that the commission has taken into account the fact that the united kingdom has not provided any evidence that the united kingdom has taken into account the fact that the united kingdom has not provided any evidence that the united kingdom has taken into account the fact that the united kingdom has not taken into account the fact that the united kingdom has not taken into account the fact that the united kingdom has not taken into account the fact that the united kingdom has not taken into account the fact that the united kingdom has not taken into account the fact that the united kingdom has not taken into account the fact that the united kingdom has not taken into account the fact that the united kingdom has not taken into account the facts. the union budget should cover expenditure and settle disputes between investors and the state. the commission should be able to decide that the member state concerned is to be reimbursed for the costs incurred in the implementation of this regulation. the use of the mechanisms and budgetary procedures should be made possible, subject to what is feasible at the moment, by assigned revenue of the union budget. the resources deriving from these internal assigned revenue should not only cover the corresponding expenditure but should be appropriate to supplement other parts of the union budget which provided the initial appropriations for the implementation of the corresponding expenditure.
written. - this provision applies to all investment agreements to which the union or the member states of the union are a party. the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon gave the union competence in the field of foreign direct investment and opened negotiations on investment protection in free trade agreements with third countries. the new circumstances have led to the need to clarify the dilemma of whether the union as a legal person or the member states individually will be liable in cases of international arbitration arising when a third-country investor brings a claim against a particular member state of the union alleging that it is obstructing his investment in the union. i consider the outcome of the trilogue on this dilemma to be satisfactory, since it has been decided that if the measure challenged in the arbitration proceedings is in force in a particular member state of the union, that state is also responsible for bearing the consequences; and if the measure challenged in the arbitration proceedings is in force at union level, it is the union that will bear the consequences. i voted in favour because i believe that refusing to accept this regulation could seriously jeopardise the legal security of investors, which is unacceptable.
written. - i supported this report because i believe that protecting the european market from subsidised imports from non-eu countries is of the utmost importance. the preservation of european industrial production must be ensured on several levels, but to be successful, we must first create a favourable environment within which our industry can grow and develop freely. factories such as croatska petrokemija d.d. are threatened by low prices of energy and raw materials coming from outside which our producers cannot compete with, which leads to market distortion. the results of such practices are devastating, as some manufacturers push the limits, risking factory collapse and job losses. this can't be our reality. the commission has also concluded that the measures in question are in line with the principles of the union state aid rules and that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market.
the commission has not yet received any comments from interested parties on the alleged dumping. - anti-dumping measures and measures against subsidised imports from non-member countries are one of the basic mechanisms of the european union's trade policy and are adopted with the aim of protecting the eu market and domestic producers from dumped imports of goods from third countries. dumping and subsidised imports from non-eu countries are one of the main threats to the functioning of the european union economy. the commission also found that the union industry's sales prices to unrelated customers in the union were significantly higher than the sales prices to unrelated customers in the union. in view of the fact that the anti-dumping regulation and the regulation against subsidised imports from countries not members of the european union have not been substantially revised since the end of the uruguay round in 1995, in line with the position of my group, i support the draft bill formulated in february 2014 and consider that modernisation and revised measures are needed.
written. - i accept the amendments to the proposal for a regulation on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 1225/2009 on protection against dumped imports from countries not members of the european community and council regulation (ec) no 597/2009 on protection against subsidised imports from countries not members of the european community. i consider that certain provisions need to be amended in order to improve transparency and predictability and to allow for effective measures to combat third country retaliation, improve effectiveness and enforcement.
written. - this proposal, which was referred to the procedure by the european commission and concerns the modernisation of the union's trade defence instruments, correcting the current anti-dumping and anti-subsidy measures, has deeply divided the member states of the union, the members of the european parliament, the industrial players (producers' associations), exporters and importers. this is why the union's defence trade instrument has remained virtually unchanged for 15 years and also why the trialogue was not held until the first reading of this report in plenary. the main changes consist of the following proposals: removal of the lesser duty rule in anti-dumping cases where distortion of structural raw materials is present and in all anti-dumping cases, obligation of union producers to cooperate ex officio in related investigations, reimbursement of duties collected during the assessment period and notification two weeks before the imposition of provisional duties (the so-called shipping clause). i am strongly opposed to overly protectionist measures such as punitive tariffs because i believe they can lead to significant market distortions and ultimately cause price increases that harm the most vulnerable group, consumers, which i consider unacceptable. therefore, keeping in mind the interest of consumers over the interests of the producing industry, both of the union and of croatia, i voted against.
written. - i supported this report because it aims to make european political parties and foundations more organisational, considering that their development is crucial for activating the public interest in all eu issues and is a way of mobilising the democratic forces of citizens. the european political parties now have a better defined status, the registration procedure has been clarified and the parties and foundations are ensured to function better and more easily, i.e. more efficiently. the european parliament and the council, acting in accordance with the ordinary legislative procedure, shall adopt the laws, regulations and administrative provisions necessary to comply with this directive by 31 december of the following year. the definition of "donation" is also important. the above contributes to greater transparency and the trust that citizens have in their representatives. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 264 concerning the establishment of a european political foundation.
written. - when we talk about a european political party, we are talking about a political coalition with political aims and registered in the european parliament. the european political parties and european political foundations should be established in accordance with european law. with a view to legal status in the european union, respect for the union's values will be mandatory. the european parliament shall be the legislative body of the union. i support the report by mrs giannakou because the new regulation will ensure the european legal status of european political parties and european political foundations by enhancing the transparency of funding procedures. i agree with the rapporteur that european political parties and foundations should not finance, either directly or indirectly, other political parties and in particular national parties or candidates. i also welcome the european parliament register, which aims to register european political parties and european political foundations, and it is important to note that it is available on the internet.
written. - i accept the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the statute and funding of european political parties and european political foundations. i agree with the definition of a european political party, which is that a party must be legal, must fully respect the principles of democracy and gender equality in its composition and in its creation. the commission will continue to support the development of the european political parties and the european foundation, and will continue to support the european parliament and the council in their efforts to promote the union's political objectives. the european political parties and european political foundations shall respect the foundations and values of the european union, respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and human rights, including the rights of persons belonging to minorities, at the core of their programmes and way of functioning.
the european parliament and the council have adopted a number of legislative acts on the subject of european political parties. i consider the proposal a step backwards in the process of democratizing the union because it contains a number of provisions calling for a deeper federalisation of the union, such as the provision that political parties at european level, wishing to be established as such, must themselves be subject to the supervision of an authority based in parliament, which will be responsible not only for monitoring technical compliance but also for ensuring that those parties respect the 'values of the union'. as i personally see political parties at european level as umbrella organisations that serve to bring together national parties with similar political worldviews and as the affinities that citizens of the union have in political terms are still exclusively linked to national parties, i oppose the demand for deepening european control in this segment because i consider it disproportionate and unjustified. that's why i voted against it.
written. - the amendment to the regulation on the financing of european political parties ends the well-known system of awarding annual financial support and introduces contributions as a new instrument for financing parties at european level. i welcome this change and support the announced simplifications, and in particular the flexibility regarding the timing of the use of the contributions. while the new system will bring significant improvements, first and foremost in terms of planning pre-election activities which will thus be specifically tailored to the current socio-political situation at national and european level, i support it with a certain degree of caution and hope that this proposal will not create much room for potential abuses. as the amendment of the regulation would remove the obligation to submit an annual work plan, i strongly advocate the establishment of a strict system of monitoring the subsequent justification of the intended use of the contributions. i also support the proposed system of administrative and financial sanctions, without which we cannot, unfortunately, guarantee high quality, targeted public spending. finally, i support the new system of public funding of european political parties, as i believe that it will further reduce the negative consequences of political parties' and private interests' collusion, and i hope that the new rules will contribute to greater accountability and transparency in the management of eu budget funds.
written. - i supported this report taking into account the many reasons which justify public funding of european political parties, which requires special legal regulation. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. the european parliament and the council are to be assisted by the european parliament and the council, acting by a qualified majority on a proposal from the commission. the report actually contributes to financial accuracy and increases legal predictability and certainty for the parties, on the one hand, and on the other hand also exercises control by setting up a system of controls and penalties including administrative and financial sanctions. all these are important moments in the proper functioning of european political parties, which represent the political will of citizens and are the driving force of integration at european level.
written. - i support the report on the financing of european political parties where it concerns technical adaptations of the financial regulation to reflect the new rules determining the financing of those parties. the commission notes that the amendments to the rules of procedure of the european parliament and the rules of procedure of the european council of 17 and 18 december 2013 are not in line with the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the conditions for the participation of european political parties in the work of the european parliament and of the council. the european parliament and the council shall be informed of the results of the evaluation of the european political parties' activities and of the results of the evaluation of the european political parties' activities.
written. - i supported the proposed solution for regulation (eu, euratom) no 966/2012 on the financing of european political parties related to the most contentious issue of the ability of parties and the bases for transferring unused funds from one financial year to another. the european political parties should be able to use the searchable database to search for candidates and candidates for the european parliament, the council and the commission. the european political parties shall be entitled to receive contributions from the european parliament and the council from the european political parties.
written. - i support the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu, euratom) no 966/2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the union to include rules on the carry-over of the reserve for emergency aid and for projects financed under the connecting europe facility. the amendment of the regulation is necessary to allow the appropriations placed in reserve and not used in the current year to be carried over to the following year. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 concerning the conditions for the participation of third countries in union programmes. it should therefore be possible to automatically carry over to the following financial year the commitment appropriations not used by the end of the financial year for projects financed under the connecting europe facility.
written. - in view of the specific nature and current status of the joint undertakings and in order to ensure continuity with the 7th framework programme, the joint undertakings should continue to be subject to a separate discharge to be given by the european parliament, on a proposal from the council. the commission should also be able to provide the necessary information to the european parliament and the council on the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation.
written. - bearing in mind the commission's 2011 white paper 'a roadmap for a single european transport area' which calls for a reduction of emissions from maritime transport by 40% and 50% respectively, it is very important to have objective and accurate systems for measuring these emissions, so that we can react in a timely manner by introducing new measures or adapting existing ones if emissions are not being reduced fast enough. i therefore welcome the main objective of this regulation, which is to set up a european system for the monitoring, reporting and verification of carbon dioxide emissions. i also welcome measures to make the efficiency of seagoing vessels publicly available, as this would encourage shipyards and dealers to invest in the efficiency of vessels for better market prices.
written. - studies have shown that emissions from international shipping have been increasing rapidly in recent years. and because of the lack of regulation, it's predicted that if it stays like this, it's going to continue to rise. although energy efficiency for ships was introduced in 2011, it has not proved to be sufficient. the establishment of a european monitoring, reporting and verification system for co2 emissions from ships should be the main objective of this regulation. this would also reduce administrative costs. the commission should take measures and other activities leading to emissions of greenhouse gases and air pollutants not covered by this regulation. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the establishment of a european union agency for the evaluation of shipping lines. the maritime market already has a very high incentive to increase energy efficiency and real-life transport work in view of high fuel prices. this is a much more sophisticated problem that cannot be determined without knowledge of the specific market circumstances that dictate the decisions of ship owners and operators.
written. - this regulation lays down rules for the accurate monitoring, verification and reporting of carbon dioxide (co2) emissions from ships calling at or departing from ports under the jurisdiction of a member state in order to promote the reduction of carbon dioxide emissions from maritime transport in a cost-effective manner. the commission proposal introduces four basic methods for measuring co2 emissions, covering 98% of all emissions from ships. the commission notes that the commission did not provide any information on the amount of the compensation for the ships concerned. however, the permitted weight was significantly reduced following the vote in the envi committee in january this year, nox reporting was added and the permitted limit was lowered to 400 gross tonnes. accordingly, i did not support this report as the amendments mentioned would represent a significant burden for smaller ship owners to implement and the measures are not proportionate in terms of reducing emissions.
written. - the european union's environment is extremely diverse, with over ten thousand alien species in the union (of which about 40% are imported from other member states), and it is estimated that about one in ten are invasive. the risks and concerns associated with invasive alien species pose a problem not only for the member state into which the alien species has been introduced, but also for the union as a whole. it is therefore essential to introduce a prohibition at union level on the introduction of invasive alien species into any member state in order to ensure a harmonised action throughout the union and thus avoid disturbances in the internal market and prevent situations where measures taken in one member state are jeopardised by the lack of action in another member state. that is why i support this regulation, in particular the parts relating to stricter rules in the member states, the introduction of effective and proportionate penalties for infringements and the establishment of a scientific forum with an advisory function on scientific issues related to the regulation.
written. - alien species have been pushed out of their natural range across ecological barriers by direct or indirect human action. some of these species can't adapt to their new environment and they need help. invasive species (hereinafter 'irps') are those that are identified as being lacking in ecosystem biodiversity or as having a negative impact on the environment, human health and socio-economic development. mrs includes animals, plants, fungi and micro-organisms, and impacts on continental land and water surfaces and eu seas and islands. as early as 2009, the european parliament and the environment council supported eu strategies. the mrs was one of the 10 priority objectives of the biodiversity action plan. the negative impact requires coordinated action at union level and will be compiled by the european commission in cooperation with the member states. member states will have to take measures to secure those species that are not introduced and are traded. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation.
written. - the risks and concerns associated with invasive alien species represent a transnational problem affecting the union as a whole. accordingly, i supported this report as it is essential to introduce a union-wide prohibition on the deliberate introduction into the union, reproduction, farming, transport, purchase, sale, use, exchange, possession and release of invasive alien species of union concern in order to ensure early and coordinated action across the union and thus avoid disruption of the internal market and prevent situations where measures taken in one member state are jeopardised by the failure to take action in another member state.
written. - the kyoto protocol, signed in 1997, is the only legally binding agreement to reduce greenhouse gases in highly industrialized countries. in december 2012, at the doha climate change conference, the 192 signatories to the kyoto protocol, along with the united nations framework convention on climate change, adopted an amendment to the kyoto protocol. the amendment establishes a second commitment period of the kyoto protocol from 1 january 2013 until the end of 2020 and legally binds the parties to reduce greenhouse gases. i support the report on the technical implementation of the kyoto protocol to the unfccc, as i believe that it is of the utmost importance to reduce the amount of greenhouse gas emissions in the period 2013-2020 to below the average of the period 2008-2010.
written. - i accept the proposal to amend the regulation concerning the technical implementation of the kyoto protocol to the united nations framework convention on climate change. the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol to the united nations framework convention on climate change will set a second commitment period until 2020 to ensure transparency of the parties' performance with their commitments. the european union, its member states and iceland must reduce their average greenhouse gas emissions by up to 80% of their annual emissions. the adoption of the doha amendment is among the most important goals that the european union must achieve, alongside the further implementation of the kyoto protocol, in order to contribute to global efforts to tackle climate change.
written. - as a result of the significant reduction of greenhouse gas emissions in the union and due to climate-related policies and economic circumstances, there will be a significant surplus of allocated allowances, verified emission reductions and emission reduction units in the accounts of the union and the member states in the second kyoto protocol target period. the relevant international rules on emissions calculation and progress towards meeting commitments should be adopted at the next climate conference in lima in december 2014. accordingly, i supported this report and believe that the commission should work with member states and third countries to help ensure the formal adoption of the kyoto protocol accounting rules at the lima climate conference. the outcome of those rules should be reflected in the implementation of the union registry and in the delegated acts provided for in this regulation.
written. - in order to ensure effective, proportionate and dissuasive protection against fraud and to ensure the optimum protection of the financial interests of the union, measures adopted by application of administrative and civil law should be complemented by legislation within the framework of the criminal law of the member states, avoiding incompatibility within each of those sectors and between them. the protection of the financial interests of the union requires a common definition of fraud covering unfair practices in relation to expenditure, revenue, assets and liabilities to the detriment of the union budget, including borrowing and lending activities. in order to ensure the consistency of union law with regard to the protection of financial interests, it is appropriate to introduce a certain minimum level of penalties. this directive lays down minimum rules. member states should be able to maintain or introduce more stringent sanctions. in order to ensure effective action against criminal offences affecting the financial interests of the union, it is necessary to intensify cooperation between the member states, the commission and eurojust.
written. - i supported this report primarily because fraud and all illegal activities that adversely affect the financial interests of the union ultimately result in serious harm not only to the eu budget but also to the interests of citizens and taxpayers. in particular, they lead to an illicit diversion of funds that would otherwise be earmarked for job creation, economic development and tax consolidation. it is essential to achieve effective and proportionate protection of the financial interests of the union and a deterrent effect of sanctions on potential offenders across europe, while applying a high level of procedural standards across the eu, which relate, inter alia, to the application of the principle of ne bis in idem. the successful implementation of the above is equally essential for close cooperation between member states, relevant eu institutions and agencies dealing with the investigation of the aforementioned fraudulent acts. the report provides a solid basis for ensuring the effective protection of the financial interests of the union throughout its territory by recovering and transferring to the union budget funds wrongfully withdrawn.
written. - i support the report on combating fraud against the union's financial interests by criminal law. it is necessary to ensure optimal protection of the financial interests of the union, as well as to ensure effective and proportionate protection against the most serious cases of fraudulent practices. corruption is a serious threat and can be linked to fraud. i agree with the rapporteurs who believe that the definition of the financial interests of the european union should be extended to include the assets and liabilities of the union and the european institutions. in order to ensure uniform conditions for the implementation of this regulation, implementing powers should be conferred on the commission to lay down rules on the application of this regulation. croatia was already obliged in the pre-accession period to ensure a legislative framework for the protection of the financial interests of the european union and to ensure the establishment of an efficient and effective system for the management of irregularities and fraud relating to the management and use of european union aid. the ministry of finance, as the main coordinating body of the afcos system and the contact point for the european anti-fraud office, together with the partner institutions, has been continuously committed to the protection of the financial interests of the eu.
written. - the focus of this proposal for a directive is the impact of fraud and related illegal activities within the european institutions on the eu's financial interests, i.e. taxpayers. i support the initiative that financial crime should be treated more seriously and that we should deal more specifically with its impact on the economic crisis. one of the proposed ways of tackling illegal activities is to introduce punitive measures in law to curb future fraud and illegal activities that are harmful to the eu budget. however, i abstained because i do not support including vat fraud in the framework of this directive, as i believe that eu tax provisions should be defined in the tax treaty, which operates on the principle of unanimity.
mr. president, thank you very much, this is the last report for today, you must know that we are the last to arrive in this european parliament so we need to talk a little more. the objective of this procedure is to discharge parliament from its responsibility towards the citizens of the union and to act in a fully transparent manner by giving citizens a detailed overview of financial management. as this procedure is also an opportunity for self-criticism and improvement in areas where it can still be achieved in terms of quality, efficiency and effectiveness of financial management, i agree with the report which calls on parliament's administration to consider increasing the use of available technologies such as teleconferencing and remote working in order to reduce administrative and travel costs. the oversight of budget implementation and discharge for the financial year 2012 has as its overriding objective to ensure that taxpayers' money is used in the best possible way and to highlight areas where progress can be made.
written. - i am pleased that the court of auditors has found that the control and supervision systems for administrative expenditure are in line with the requirements of financial regulation and that the most common error rate in transactions is 0%, which shows good and accurate financial management, especially as i believe that the european parliament, as a democratically elected body directly by the citizens of the european union, should set a good example for all other institutions to implement responsible and quality finances. that is why in all areas where there is a lack of transparency, i support proposals to improve it, such as the harmonisation and procurement procedure, where there is more room for improvement, in terms of ensuring the most competitive prices for the goods and services purchased. but what i refuse to support is the politicization of the issue without concrete proposals for change.
mr. president, i would like to welcome commissioner lewandowski, our rapporteurs, and the chairman of the board, mr. lamassoure. the own resources issues, or their reforms, which are on the agenda today are really the last element of the adoption of the multiannual financial framework which we have been talking about for the last two and a half years. what is crucial is that the future of the european union, its strength, its financial strength, its ability to adequately implement its political priorities and programmes will depend on how it receives funds. the european union's own resources, which are divided into traditional own resources, vat-based resources and gross national income-based resources, are key to the future efficient functioning of the european union. i think it is not good that there was no political will at council level to adopt the proposals that have been on the table since 2011, which were proposed by parliament, and which the commission has finely articulated both through the reform of resources by vat and through the reform of resources through the financial transaction tax. however, i am counting on the work of several colleagues here with us, who are part of the high level group of both commissioner lewandowski and president lamassoure and my colleague mr kalfin, as well as others who are part of this group, to come up with a proposal in 2016 that will allow for a timely revision of the current mff and real genuine own resources reforms that will enable the european union and the member states to be effective both internally and globally.
madam president, i welcome the new framework, because it sets out more precisely the criteria that countries and regions must meet in order to be able to apply for funds from the fund, which i believe will drastically reduce the possibility of misuse. the new framework also introduces the possibility of advances, which is a significant improvement on the previous practice. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance in the context of the union's macro-financial assistance. i would like to express the hope that the european commission will recognise the serious consequences of the recent natural disasters in croatia and respond positively to the request of the republic of croatia submitted on the basis of the damage caused by the ice and frost in gorski kotar and primorsko-gorski kotar county, heavy rainfall and consequent flooding in sisa-moslavska, karlovacka and zagreb counties and landslides in varaždin county.
madam president, the solidarity fund was set up to help in the event of major natural disasters and to show above all the solidarity of the regions and countries in europe. these amendments will make it possible to use the funds more quickly and easily, and in particular the possibility of using the advance, as the rapid aid is double aid. the republic of croatia has applied for funding from the fund this year as well as three times as a candidate country to mitigate the enormous damage caused by snow and ice in the gorsk kotar, a central part of the country covered by forests. this damage significantly exceeds 0,6% of the gross national income and croatia submitted an official notification to the fund on its own. the fund will obviously play an increasing role, primarily because of the increasing frequency of climate extremes in europe, and the next parliament should therefore focus more on commitments and criteria for taking measures to prevent the most severe consequences, at least those of foreseeable disasters.
mr president, i supported the report by mr martin on the proposal for a regulation laying down further provisions on the exercise of the european parliament's right of inquiry, because i consider that the right of inquiry is an important form of parliament's supervisory powers. as an institution representing citizens, the european parliament is the democratic foundation of the european union and, in order to ensure the union's legitimacy, it is granted the right to set up temporary committees of inquiry, i.e. commissions of inquiry, to investigate breaches and irregularities of european union law. parliament has been known to use this power wisely. i think it is desirable, on the one hand, that parliament should have these powers and means at its disposal, so that it can articulate its powers and its responsibilities in a way that is consistent with what is done in the national parliaments and where the principle of subsidiarity is respected. it is necessary to acknowledge the progress made in the negotiations so far at political and technical level and i consider this report to be an important contribution to the consensus reached by the council and the commission.
written. - i supported this report primarily because of this. in order to ensure that the european parliament's right of inquiry is respected, the european parliament should be able to request the european parliament to take a decision on the inquiry, in accordance with the procedure laid down in article 25 of the treaty on european union. it is important to highlight and to clarify the scope of the right of inquiry, such that all conclusions of the inquiry should be based exclusively on elements having evidentiary value, and to that end the inquiry committee should be empowered to carry out any type of inquiry necessary for the performance of the task by means of factual evidence, such as hearing union and member state officials and servants, hearing witnesses and seeking expert reports, conducting an on-the-spot inquiry. the investigative committees should have access to all types of documents and it is important that they have the power to obtain the same relevant information from union and national authorities as from natural and legal persons. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 264 concerning the conditions for the participation of the union in the work of the european parliament and of the council.
written. - i support the report by mr martin on the european parliament's right to investigate which would give it significant new powers in dealing with possible breaches or irregularities in the implementation of union law. the treaty of lisbon extended and strengthened the european parliament's functions in terms of political control. the treaty also achieved an improvement in the institutional balance within the eu by allowing for a more efficient, democratic and open functioning of the institutions. i welcome the provisions relating to the exercise of parliament's rights laid down in this provision. it is important to note that the european parliament may set up temporary committees of inquiry at the request of a quarter of its members. as the report also states, democratic parliaments around the world exercise this right in various ways. in most eu member states, the establishment of a committee of inquiry is provided for and regulated by constitutional, statutory or judicial provisions. the croatian parliament may also establish committees of inquiry for any matter of public interest. the assembly decides on the establishment of a committee of inquiry by a majority of all members, while the composition of the committee is decided by the assembly by a majority of the members present and must correspond approximately to the party composition of parliament.
written. - i support this regulation which should provide for the possibility of effective, proportionate and dissuasive sanctions in specific cases. member states should themselves ensure that certain infringements are appropriately sanctioned in accordance with national law and that appropriate proceedings are initiated against the perpetrators of such infringements. by ratifying the treaty on the functioning of the european union, member states also agreed to confer on the european parliament the right to investigate alleged contraventions or irregularities in the implementation of union law. they should therefore ensure that their national authorities, in accordance with the legal provisions of national law, provide the necessary support to the committees of inquiry to enable them to fulfil their task. investigations should be conducted in full respect of human rights and fundamental freedoms, in particular the principle of fairness and respect for the right of the persons involved to express their views on the facts concerning them. by strengthening supervision at union level, the provisions of this regulation grant committees of inquiry a wider range of powers, all with the aim of enabling the implementation of the provisions and thus increasing the efficiency of investigations and bringing them more into line with national parliamentary practice. as in all democratic societies, the separation of powers should be respected here, which should separate the legislative (parliament), executive (government) and judicial (courts) authorities to prevent abuse of power.
written. - this report analyses parliament's right to an inquiry, which, following the treaty of lisbon, is subject to detailed rules laid down on parliament's initiative. the report tends to reinforce the main aspects of the rules currently in force concerning the european parliament's right of inquiry. the rapporteur requests that the european parliament be granted the right to invite official representatives of the member states of the union to send explanations to parliament on, for example, the implementation of a particular directive. the right of parliament to carry out on-the-spot investigations in such cases and to impose sanctions if parliament's right is not respected is also requested. the proposal directly infringes the principle of subsidiarity by unnecessarily encroaching on the competences of the member states and i have refused to support it.
written. - the functioning of the european union is based on representative democracy and on the dual democratic legitimacy that derives from the european parliament, whose representatives are directly elected by the citizens, and national parliaments as national institutions to which governments represented in the council are directly accountable. national parliaments have a special role to play in strengthening 'european awareness' in the member states and bringing citizens closer to the eu. they should build strong and coherent structures linked to the eu to enhance their links with the european institutions and to gain greater expertise in european affairs. national parliaments use their powers in relation to the principle of subsidiarity as a means of engaging in 'political dialogue' with the european institutions. interparliamentary cooperation can play a crucial role in boosting the process of european integration by enabling the exchange of information, joint consideration of issues, mutually beneficial dialogue and easier transposition of eu legislation into national legislation.
written. - i supported this report primarily because one of its main objectives is to improve the union's interparliamentary cooperation. whereas the provisions of the treaty, as primary law, confer powers and tasks on national parliaments to enable them to contribute actively to the better functioning of the union; the european parliament and the council should be able to agree on the terms of reference of the european parliament's legislative and executive powers. the regulation covers a common framework for action, the exchange of information, documents and best practices, and the holding of regular meetings of the clubs of meps and european political parties. financial support for effective interparliamentary cooperation at committee and rapporteur level on legislative matters is also important. i think it is most important to emphasise that this type of cooperation needs to bring together the most competent people around the right topic in order to allow the added value of dialogue and debate to be used when deciding on particular issues. interparliamentary meetings bring together european and national policies and allow them to converge. all of the above is crucial in advancing the process of 'parliamentarisation' of the european union and consolidating the multi-racial parliamentary system.
written. - i agree with the general position of this report that further integration of the european union is necessary and that in this context it is important to define the relationship of the national parliaments of individual member states with the institutions of the european union. here particular attention should be paid to the principle of subsidiarity and in this context to seek the space for cooperation, whether legislative or merely advisory. it is important to remember that the european union is not feasible without the independence of the member states in certain respects, but also to bear in mind all the successes that have resulted from the transfer of responsibilities from the national to the european institutions and to find a balance that will meet the wishes and needs of european citizens. we will have the opportunity to test this balance in the upcoming elections, when one of the most important pre-election issues will be the relationship between the european parliament and national parliaments such as the croatian parliament.
written. - in order to create stronger links between citizens and europe and to focus on greater eu integration, it is necessary for the european institutions to include the national parliaments of the member states as part of the 'european parliamentary system' and that is why i support the report by the honourable member for cassino. the relationship between the national parliaments and the european parliament must be one of cooperation, not competition or opposition. this report comes at a time when europe is facing a crisis and a lack of trust from its citizens, and i believe this is the best way to bring citizens closer together and to restore trust in the european union.
written. - i supported the revision of directive 96/96/ec which applies to equipment fitted to eu ships and which requires the approval of the flag state administration in accordance with international instruments, irrespective of whether the ship is in the union at the time of fitting. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 concerning the conditions for the granting of such authorisations. in cases where a risk has been identified, the member state should invite the economic operator concerned to take appropriate corrective action or to withdraw or recall the equipment concerned.
written. - the european parliament has found the commission's legislative proposals on own resources of june 2011 to be on the right track and to have been supported as such by an overwhelming majority in the european parliament from the outset. the correction of imbalances in the member states' contributions to the budget is also part of the own resources system in its current form. in line with the opinion of the committee on budgets, i support the proposal for a council regulation on the implementation of the measures for the european union's own resources system. this regulation complements and provides for important details (in particular on the calculation of the eu budget balance) on the implementation of the own resources decision. this draft is an important part of the package of 4 own resources reports. in the republic of croatia, following accession to the union, the proper functioning of the own resources system and the implementation of measures are entrusted to the croatian national bank, the ministry of finance, the state statistics office, the ministry of agriculture and the agency for payments in agriculture, fisheries and rural development.
written. - i accept the recommendation on the draft council regulation on implementing measures for the system of own resources of the european union. the implementing regulation is part of the global own funds reform package, which contains provisions on own funds determination, control, monitoring and reporting conditions for national authorities. i consider it necessary to apply the provisions of the treaty of lisbon concerning the implementation of regulations and to confirm the existence of those regulations. i believe that the european union's own resources system needs to be reformed to make it simple, transparent and understandable to the citizens of the union, thereby strengthening the link between european citizens and european projects and at the same time reducing the burden on the national coffers of the member states. the high expectations are placed on the work of the high level group on own resources, which i believe offers a unique opportunity to overcome the current impasse in the reform of the own resources system.
written. - i voted with abstention on this proposal for implementing measures for the european union's own resources system, as i consider that the council's proposal does not make sufficient and desirable progress in reforming the european union's own resources system. i am of course pleased that for the first time the european parliament has the opportunity to give its assent or not to a proposal for a regulation on the implementing measures for the system of own resources, in application of the treaty of lisbon, but i do not think that this can be a sufficient reason to give the council the green light as proposed by the rapporteur. in particular, since the council did not take into account the commission's proposal to reform the own resources system, which aimed to reduce the share of resources coming from national contributions under the gni, i abstained on the proposal on the own resources system and also on the present implementation proposal.
written. - article 311 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union introduces two significant changes to the legal provisions relating to the european union's own resources. the european parliament has already delivered an opinion on the decision on the own resources system for the period 2014-2020. the system will remain for that period essentially the same as for 2007-2013, with certain changes. the european parliament has been a strong advocate of a thorough reform of the own resources system, which should return to a system of genuine, clear, simple and fair own resources. i also support the commission's proposal to reduce the collection costs of the member states. i am very confident in the high level group on own resources, established by agreement of the three institutions of the union, which forms part of the political agreement on the multiannual financial framework for the period 2014-2020. that high-level group shall carry out a general review of the own resources system, guided by the general objectives of simplicity, transparency, fairness and democratic accountability. the first estimate will be available at the end of 2014.
written. - the union provides itself with the means to achieve its objectives and implement its policies, but work is needed on its own resources. a high-level group will be convened to that end. the three institutions will appoint members to work on the own resources issue. it should rely on appropriate expertise, including experts from national budgetary and tax authorities and independent experts. it is known that the european parliament has called for the budget to be financed from own resources and has highlighted the shortcomings of the financing system. transparency, parliamentary scrutiny, fairness, complexity and restraint are what must be worked on, in order to avoid consequences and to avoid violating the letter and spirit of the treaty. the european parliament also considers that the current system makes it impossible to obtain a sufficient majority in the council to determine in the annual budgets a sufficient level of appropriations for payments to meet the eu's legal and political obligations. the european parliament encourages changes to the own resources system which should return to a system of genuine, clear, simple and fair own resources. the european parliament also regrets that the council has not been able to make any progress in reforming the own resources system on the basis of these legislative proposals. so you need to start addressing the shortcomings.
written. - while i am in favour of reforming the european union's own resources system, i regret that the council did not have the courage to follow the european commission's 2011 proposal. the commission proposed an innovative model which, among other things, aimed to limit to a maximum of 40% the share of own resources deriving from national contributions under the gni (whereas today the share of national contributions under the gni is 74%) by introducing two different means of financing, one based on vat and the other on the financial transaction tax. in view of the disregard for the european commission's proposal and the consequent limited scope of the proposed reform, i abstained.
written. - this proposal, which is one of the four reports in the package, will keep the own resources system for 2014-2020 similar to that for 1997-2003, with some changes. i support the decision agreed by the member states to reduce the collection costs, i.e. their contributions, from 25% to 20%. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 264 concerning the establishment of a european data protection supervisor. although i support the proposal in principle, it is necessary to point out certain shortcomings of the system. the current system of union funding, with around 74% of revenue coming from national contributions based on gni and 11% of existing statistical contributions based on vat, and on the revenue and revenue side of the union budget, has led to the introduction of complex and ambiguous rebates and other correction mechanisms. the commission should be able to use the appropriations entered in the budget for the financial year in question to cover the expenditure incurred by the union in the context of the implementation of the budget. the current system makes it impossible to obtain a sufficient majority in the council to set the level of appropriations for payments in the annual budgets at a sufficient level to meet the eu's legal and political obligations, which is why i support its amendment.
written. - the proposal for a draft council regulation on the methods and procedure for making available traditional own resources and own resources based on vat and gni and on measures to meet cash requirements is part of the own resources reform package presented by the commission in 2011, which contains provisions on own resources determination, control, monitoring and reporting conditions for national authorities. i support the report on the draft council regulation on the methods and procedure for making available traditional own resources and own resources based on vat and gni and on measures to meet cash requirements. having regard to the report of the committee on legal affairs, which considers that the proposal in question does not contain any substantive amendments other than those identified as such in the proposal and that, as regards the codification of the unchanged provisions of the earlier acts with those amendments, the proposal contains a pure codification of the existing texts without any substantive changes, i consider that it should be supported.
written. - the implementing measures are part of the global own resources reform package submitted by the commission in june 2011, which contains provisions on own resources, control and supervision. for the first time under the lisbon treaty, parliament's consent is now required to adopt the rules establishing the implementing measure for the european union's own resources system to the extent provided for in the own resources. i am extremely sorry that the proposals put forward by the commission in june 2011, together with the proposal for the estimates of the 2014-2020 budget, were not accepted by the council. instead, the council agreed on a financing system for the period 2014-2020 that is almost as good as, if not worse than, that for 2007-2013. i support the establishment of a high-level group on own resources which should be guided by general objectives such as simplicity, transparency, fairness and democratic accountability. the group should publish a report by the end of 2014 and a final report by the end of 2016. the commission should assess the appropriateness of the own resources and revise the mff 14 to 20 on the basis of those reports, if necessary.
written. - i accept this report on the implementing measures for the european union's own resources system and agree with the rapporteur that the council has been unable to make any progress in reforming the own resources system on the basis of the legislative proposals put forward by the commission. i believe that the european union's own resources system needs to be reformed to make it simple, transparent and understandable to the citizens of the union, thereby strengthening the link between european citizens and european projects and at the same time reducing the burden on the national coffers of the member states. the high expectations are placed on the work of the high level group on own resources, which i believe offers a unique opportunity to overcome the current impasse in the reform of the own resources system.
written. - i support this report in the part where the rapporteur expresses his regret at the council's decision to reinstate the provisions relating to the calculation of the bnd's resources in the own resources decision. i also agree with the rapporteur that the council missed the opportunity to make important progress in reforming the own resources system on the basis of the legislative proposals put forward by the commission, which aimed to reduce the share of resources coming from national contributions under the gni. however, i do not agree with the rapporteur's support for the council agreement laying down implementing measures for the union's own resources and therefore abstained on that proposal.
written. - the network of public employment services established by this decision should implement initiatives for the exchange of knowledge, mutual support among the members of the network and the implementation of strategic measures for the modernisation of public employment services. the enhanced cooperation between public services and their individual members should also be used to develop employment policies aimed at addressing the high unemployment rate among vulnerable groups, in particular among the young population. improving employment services adopts and implements the concept of modernising and strengthening public services and spreads the social objectives of joint learning activities. i agree with this decision because the unemployment rate is high, especially among the most vulnerable part of the population, and that is the young. this would provide an opportunity to identify their skills and to develop and realise them.
written. - the network of public employment services should establish and share best practice examples of identifying young people not in employment, education or training and developing initiatives to ensure that these young people acquire the skills needed to enter and remain in the labour market. the expertise of the network of public employment services and its individual members should be used to develop employment policies, in particular those aimed at addressing the high unemployment rate among vulnerable groups, in particular young people. the network of public employment services (pes) should be able to design and deliver employment services within their remit, thus ensuring a better match between the skills and qualifications of jobseekers and the needs of employers. the cooperation of public employment services is an important factor in the fight against unemployment in europe and that is why i support this report.
written. - in order to achieve the europe 2020 strategy of 75% employment rate for women and men aged 20-64 by 2020 and to reduce youth unemployment, public employment services have a key role to play. the aim of mr daerden's report is to strengthen cooperation between the public employment services of the member states by establishing a formal network. this network could contribute to reducing the duration of unemployment and inactivity, improving the functioning and integration of the labour market, helping to combat social exclusion and improving job recruitment. i support the report and agree that participation in the network should be mandatory for all member states. i believe that enhanced and more targeted cooperation between public employment services would contribute to a greater sharing of best practice and thus to more effective results. the international cooperation of the croatian employment office is based on bilateral and multilateral cooperation agreements concluded between the office and public employment services of other countries. since the accession of croatia to the union, the institute has played an active role in a number of european bodies. in conclusion, close cooperation between public employment services is an important factor in combating unemployment and achieving higher employment rates in the european union, and i therefore call on all member states to cooperate.
written. i supported the report of the representative daerden on the public employment services. a comparison of the different working methods of public employment services, the exchange of information and experience can make a significant contribution to identifying the most appropriate system for each member state and to achieving the 75% employment target in the eu by 2020. it is important to upgrade the structure of existing employment services in order to increase efficiency. we must aim to reduce youth unemployment and fight for long-term employment for our citizens. in february 2014, there were over 25 million unemployed men and women in europe. the european union achieved an increase in employment of 619 000 new jobs compared to february 2013. we need to work together to achieve job growth and create an integrated european labour market with accessible information and equal conditions and opportunities for employment for all eu citizens.
written. - i support this proposal which is designed to strengthen cooperation between public employment services. the services that public employment services will provide to employers and employees are labour market information, job search assistance, advice and career guidance, placement and job assistance and geographical mobility. i welcome this draft law as it focuses on combating unemployment, which is currently a burning issue in croatia as well as in many other member states, promoting sustainable employment, combating social insensitivity, involving the social partners, and taking into account the responsibilities in individual member states. the economic crisis and unemployment have led to changes in the tasks of public employment services, but also as a result of changes in national labour markets resulting from technological developments in labour demand and career paths. i also support the initiative to build tangible structures on the existing network of representatives of national public employment services, so that they can be comparable. in short, i see this as helping to fight youth unemployment, promote sustainable employment and combat social insensitivity.
written. - i support the report proposing cooperation between member states in the public employment services sector, because i believe that the formalisation of cooperation in this area through the european network of heads of public employment services is a positive development compared to the informal cooperation of the same services. the objective of this process is to build a tangible structure within the existing cooperation framework, so that the effectiveness of labour market measures implemented in individual member states of the union can be compared on the basis of detailed figures and assessments and positive measures and good practices can be identified on the basis of these comparisons (so-called 'benchlearning'). the commission proposes that the european network be managed by a committee, to which the member states of the union will appoint one member and one alternate member from the senior management of the employment services of each member state. the only part of the proposal that i consider to be controversial is the insistence of the european parliament's negotiating team on the mandatory participation of the member states of the union in the said network, because i personally consider it crucial that the proposed cooperation be voluntary, that is, that member states can decide independently whether there is a need to join this type of cooperation, depending on the circumstances of each individual member state.
mr president, i support this report in particular because croatia has a geographical position which is prone to floods and fires. the estimated direct damage from the elementary disaster for this year, damage to infrastructure, natural areas and cultural property in the areas of five croatian counties amounts to over eur 290 million. the biggest damage is in natural zones, namely in the area of croatian forests, which amounts to over 250 million euros. the ministry of economy also submitted an official notification of the republic of croatia to the european union solidarity fund on the occasion of the elementary disaster that hit the territory of the republic of croatia this year. these disasters have a devastating effect on the biosphere of the affected areas, so i stress the importance of collective action. i am particularly emphasizing this because croatia was in a situation where during the summer months it sent its canadians to neighbouring countries to put out fires, and at the same time it was itself hit by very large fire disasters.
mr vice-president, i have supported the report by mrs ferragut on the european union solidarity fund. as a member of the committee on budgets, i am aware of the importance of this fund to the member states in the wake of a series of natural disasters caused mainly by climate change, and the importance of making this assistance by the european union as quick, effective and as simple as possible for the member states, and in particular of making it possible to grant advances at the request of the affected country. the commission shall inform the european parliament and the council of any changes to the list of beneficiaries of the aid referred to in paragraph 1. it is important that the dynamics of the relationship between the state and the european commission be simplified and accelerated and that these experiences that we had as croatia, now as a member, due to disasters in a number of counties regarding floods and ice, be processed quite quickly because the damage that i myself visited in a number of counties is extremely large. and the experience we've had as non-members has been useful in that respect in the last three requests in the past.
written. - the european solidarity fund is a very important instrument enabling the union to provide assistance as quickly and efficiently as possible to citizens affected by the severe emergency situations which we have unfortunately witnessed too often in recent times. i supported this proposal because it provides a clearer framework for providing timely financial assistance to regions in difficulty. the commission should also be able to provide the necessary information to the member states in order to ensure that the union's financial contribution to the union's macro-financial assistance is sufficient to cover the costs of the union's macro-financial assistance. i hope that member states will succeed in preventing and mitigating the devastating consequences of natural disasters by fully implementing the relevant union legislation and its preventive measures.
written. - as a consequence of climate change, the number and frequency of natural disasters in the union have increased in recent years. this regulation clarifies the scope of the solidarity fund and proposes to include in its scope natural disasters that develop over a long period of time, such as drought. the european union has been working to improve the quality of life for people in the region, and to help them to become better informed about the impact of climate change on their lives. in 2012, croatia was hit by a multi-month drought which negatively affected the local economy and the living conditions of the inhabitants. the increase in the reach of the solidarity fund will be of great importance for croatia, but also for all member states facing natural disasters. in order to facilitate the recovery of the population affected by drought, it is also necessary to increase the flexibility and speed up the approval process of the fund's assistance.
the european union solidarity fund was set up in 2002 as the union's response to major disasters in the territories of the member states and the candidate countries. the fund is achieving its objectives fairly well, but there is a need to further improve its responsiveness by setting clearer application rules. the proposal suggests a clear definition of regional disasters based on the gdp threshold, in such a way that the damage caused by regional disasters must exceed the threshold of 1,5% of gdp and 1% of gdp in the outermost regions. the most positive part of the proposal is the one which proposes an advance payment of 10% of the planned contribution from the fund, with a limit of a maximum of eur 30 million. this measure responds to legitimate criticism that the fund's assistance is too late to reach the field where it is needed. i also welcome the change in the deadline for applying to the fund from 10 to 12 weeks after the first damage has occurred and the deadline for spending money from one to one and a half years. that's why i voted yes.
written. - the solidarity fund was created in response to natural disasters to express solidarity with the affected regions in europe. the fund was set up following the various floods that occurred in central europe during the summer of 2002. this appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the following measures: in view of the increasing number of natural disasters as a consequence of climate change, which have not bypassed croatia, i consider that this is a fund of great importance and it needs to be adapted in an adequate and effective way to this situation. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, in particular through the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the other instruments of the union. in order to meet the expectations of countries and regions affected by natural disasters, i agree that there is a need to amend existing legislation and for this reason i support the rapporteur's opinion. as noted by the commission, that instrument should be more efficient and its activation should be simplified and further clarified. in conclusion, i agree that the fund is a clear expression of solidarity providing assistance to the european countries and regions most in need and i call for simplification of procedures with a view to enabling the use of the fund in a short timeframe.
written. - i support the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the participation of the european union in the increase of the capital of the european investment fund in order to adopt the measures needed at union level to stimulate growth and employment, strengthen the financing of the economy and increase europe's competitiveness. i believe that the fund needs to increase its capacity in order to improve its credit quality, which would allow it to support smes and stimulate financing of the economy. the union's participation in the capital increase of the fund is of great importance in order to achieve the union's objectives of promoting an environment favourable to initiatives and to the development of enterprises throughout the eu, in particular small and medium-sized enterprises.
written. - this report deals with the regulation of the relationship between the european medicines agency (ema), the member states and pharmaceutical companies. more specifically, it regulates the ratios of payments for the trial and marketing of new medicines. member states and the ema share responsibility for the safety of new medicines and it is fair that the revenues charged to pharmaceutical companies are also shared according to the level of responsibility. it is necessary to establish clear proportions for the distribution of the funds raised and to allocate which compensation is paid to whom. this will avoid double charging. i support the compromise reached in the negotiations of the three main european institutions because i believe that regulating the system of reimbursement and payment will benefit the companies, the member states, but also the patients who will use the new medicines.
written. - as this regulation places new tasks and responsibilities on the european medicines agency such as creating a database of all authorised products in the european union and extending the eudravigilance database to the public so that interested citizens can use it to find examples of what side effects a particular medicine can cause and so on, the agency will need to expand the amount of money it has at its disposal, and the commission's estimate is €38.5 million, partly from fees paid by pharmaceutical companies, but the division of fees between the agency and the member states has been the subject of lengthy negotiations and i consider this compromise a good solution for the time being if the fees are based on transparent and independently audited prices.
written. - the agency's main task is to protect and promote human and animal health by supervising medicines used for medical and veterinary purposes. it is set up as a network which, with the help of the scientific institutions of the eu and the efta member states, ensures the highest level of control of medicines in europe. it works closely with partners worldwide and contributes to global harmonisation in the field of drug control. it is important that the financing mechanism should be put in place as soon as possible, especially since the law has already entered into force. the new jobs proposal should be implemented as soon as possible and the launch of the web portal will bring a lot of opportunities. the web portal will provide access to information about the drugs and the side effects they carry and what's very important creating a database. the ema and the member states share the eu-wide pharmacovigilance system and the funds collected should therefore be equally shared. the commission should be able to impose a duty on the manufacturer of medicinal products for human use, in accordance with the principle of proportionality, in order to ensure that the conditions for authorisation are fulfilled.
written. - following the arab spring and with a view to democratic reform, it has been proposed that the european union provide macro-financial assistance to the republic of tunisia. the tunisian economy is a victim not only of the events related to the southern mediterranean that started in 2010, but also of the recession in europe as the european union is tunisia's main trading and financial partner. i support the adoption of this instrument because i believe that the total aid will amount to a maximum of eur 300 million. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council. i particularly welcome the progress made towards democracy and the rule of law and call for the respect of effective democratic mechanisms and the guarantee of respect for human rights, which are a precondition for the approval of the union's macro-financial assistance. economic cooperation and political dialogue between the european union and tunisia are developing in accordance with the framework of the european neighbourhood policy and the eu-tunisia association agreement, which entered into force in 1998. i welcome macro-financial assistance and call for its swift allocation to prevent further economic slowdown and to step up efforts to reduce external and budgetary deficits.
written. - due to the greed in the tuna fishery, the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (iccat) adopted an enhanced multiannual recovery plan in november 2012. the programme includes a significant deployment of more inspectors, patrol vessels and aircraft in coordination with the european fisheries control agency (efca). the commission will also monitor and analyse the vessel monitoring system, collecting catch data to ensure compliance with all rules, and in particular with the individual quotas granted. i supported this amendment to the regulation in order to allow for changes in fishing seasons in the eastern atlantic which would not affect the protection of the bluefin tuna spawning area. the iccat recommendation states that contracting parties and cooperating non-contracting parties, entities or fishing entities may set a different start date for their bait boats and trawlers operating in the eastern atlantic, while respecting the total length of the open season for those fisheries.
written. - the purpose of this report is to strengthen the fight against counterfeiting of the euro and other currencies by tightening penalties and harmonising criminal and legal frameworks. the directive defines counterfeiting and the putting into circulation of counterfeit banknotes and the offences related to computer and other equipment used in counterfeiting. furthermore, the intent to commit an act of forgery and the aiding of such an act are also defined as crimes. the directive set a minimum maximum penalty of 8 years for the act of counterfeiting and 5 years for the act of distributing counterfeit money. i support this directive because counterfeiting undermines the single currency and the single market, and the victims of fraud are often ordinary citizens.
written. - we know that money is the general equivalent of commodity value and that its circulation maintains the normal functioning of commodity-money relations. i supported this report because it is important to protect citizens and businesses across the union from the negative consequences of counterfeit money. counterfeit money weakens confidence in financial transactions and payments, creates uncertainty and delays in payments, resulting in illiquidity and insolvency. for these reasons, it is essential to ensure the confidence of citizens, businesses and financial institutions in the authenticity of banknotes and coins. as regards the euro, we are aware that since its introduction, counterfeiting has caused considerable financial damage and it is of the utmost importance that the union as a whole opposes such activities and prosecutes such activities. in view of the significant differences in penalties between member states, they should be harmonised. this alignment facilitates cross-border cooperation and reduces the risk of a 'best-fit' court. it is also important to devote time to developing stronger banknote protection.
written. - the euro is the single currency shared by the euro area member states and is an important factor in the union's economy. i note with concern that since 2002, the year of the introduction of the european currency, the counterfeiting of the euro has caused financial damage of at least 500 million euro. the euro is a target for organised crime and i support the report on the criminal protection of the euro and other currencies against counterfeiting. the directive lays down harmonised minimum rules for the definition of criminal offences and sanctions in relation to counterfeiting of the euro and other currencies. it defines the offences of counterfeiting, import, export, transport and receipt of counterfeit money as well as offences relating to instruments, computer programs and data used for the purpose of counterfeiting or any change to the currency itself. i agree that inciting or aiding in the aforementioned injuries should also be considered a crime. in conclusion, i agree that the fight against euro counterfeiting is in the interest of the union as a whole and that activities which threaten the authenticity of the euro must therefore be prosecuted in an appropriate manner with a view to protecting citizens throughout the european union. i also call for safeguards not just for the euro, but for all currencies.
written. - it is crucial to ensure the confidence of citizens, businesses and financial institutions in the authenticity of banknotes and coins. counterfeit money causes substantial material and non-material damage to society, individuals and businesses in all member states and in third countries. it may also raise concerns among consumers about the lack of adequate protection of money and the fear of receiving counterfeit banknotes and coins. it is characteristic of criminal offences of counterfeiting that they often have a cross-border dimension and links with organised crime. accordingly, i supported the latest amendments to the commission proposal which removed the obligations of member states for minimum criminal sanctions for crimes, thus preserving the flexibility of member states. the new amendments also address an existing shortcoming in the law, which made it not a criminal offence to counterfeit new banknotes and coins to be put into circulation.
written. - the question of whether pollen is a natural ingredient or an integral part of honey is, at first glance, absurd and irrelevant. but it is a decision that could have far-reaching consequences for the future of the beekeeping sector in europe. i'll throw out all the arguments and endorse the view that pollen is one of the ingredients of honey. why would you do that? firstly, because i believe that european consumers must have the right to know whether the honey they consume contains gmos. because if pollen is an ingredient, then honey that contains pollen from a gmo plant must have that indicated on the label. in addition to consumer rights, we will also protect the producers of honey that produce honey without gmo components, which is the majority of european beekeepers. i disagree with the european commission's proposal that pollen is an integral part of honey because it goes to the gmos industry, the honey wholesalers and the importers. when it comes to choosing between short-term profit and long-term security, i will always vote for security and the consumer's right to know what they're buying.
written. - the commission's proposal is to supplement closely directive 2001/110/ec on honey by defining pollen as an ingredient of honey. it's an attempt to push genetically modified food into the diet without informing the public. in fact, eu labelling rules for genetically modified foods state that the declaration must be labelled if the article contains more than 0.9% gm content. however, if we consider that pollen is a natural ingredient of honey, this threshold is not exceeded, even if it is exclusively from gm crops, because pollen in the concentration of honey is never higher than 0,5%. i am totally against this proposal and i am extremely concerned about the health of citizens, but also of small producers in the union who continue to produce in a natural way. as a representative of the people, my goal is to advocate for the interests of croatian citizens and protect future generations. i also want to acknowledge the efforts of croatian beekeepers who are making great efforts to produce natural and safe honey. such work is not easy, and it requires a greater degree of responsibility and constant investment in education, facilities and other equipment, and the daily care of the bees. croatia is a gmo free country and i hope that the will of its citizens to keep it that way will be respected.
written. - i commend the efforts of rapporteur girling to bring sanity back to the business of beekeepers, mostly small and medium-sized enterprises, throughout europe. in particular, after the european court of justice ruled in 2011 that pollen is an ingredient of honey, the same decision caused costly and unnecessary complications for beekeepers who found themselves in the situation of having to relabel all honey and honey-containing products to indicate pollen as an ingredient in the same. the same practice has the potential to cost beekeepers eur 3,25 million, while undermining consumers' perception of honey as a natural product. as honey is a natural product, it should be exempted from the obligation to display the list of ingredients. that is why i voted for the amendment by rapporteur girling which calls for pollen to be considered not as an ingredient of honey but as a plant matter.
mr president, the adoption of the regulation on the european maritime and fisheries fund is the last step in the reform of the common fisheries policy and also a key financing mechanism. fishermen across the european union will need significant support to adapt to the new requirements and measures and i therefore support the adoption of this text. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be given the opportunity to present their opinions on the proposal for a regulation on the common organisation of the market in fishery products. i'm satisfied that the final text includes the measures intended for the fleet. these measures are perhaps the most beneficial to fishermen and i believe they can really help to preserve the sustainability of fisheries. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the measures in the fisheries sector, in particular the implementation of the new rules on the conservation of fishery resources. the financing of farming activities, the financing of diversification of activities and the processing of fishery products is particularly important, and i welcome the increase in the percentage of financing for small sectors and the measures taken under local initiatives as well as the recognition of the specificity of the islands.
written. - although slavonia, where i come from, is landlocked, i am aware of the importance and impact of the common fisheries policy on economic, social and environmental developments in croatia and the european union. one thing we can all agree on is that the way fish stocks are managed in the eu's seas must change. resources are stretched to the limit and i welcome any move that will lead to a reduction in the number of outbreaks. the state of the seabed and the fishery on the eastern, croatian side of the adriatic is, according to most indicators, better than on its western side. new regulations to maintain or even correct such a situation were welcomed. but people in the industry, especially small-scale fishermen, need to be able to continue to live off fishing or to offer an alternative. the market for fish, shellfish and other seafood needs to be regulated and producer organisations can be a factor, but it should be borne in mind that there are large differences between member states in terms of their numbers and organisation.
written. - fishing is a centuries-old tradition in croatia and as such is a key part of our culture and economy. by joining the european union, croatia has brought a large number of laws into line with the european legislative framework through the implementation of the common fisheries policy, but it has also encountered difficulties that indicate that there is still work to be done. first of all, i believe that the needs and problems of small-scale fisheries should be prioritised within the framework of the emff, bearing in mind that in the union it is the small-scale fleet that employs the largest number of people per catch. support for small-scale fishing is of particular importance in order to respond to the problems specific to that fishery and to support the local management of those fishing zones and ultimately to achieve their sustainability. i supported this report because i believe that cooperation is a key factor in tackling the problems of fisheries at all levels and in promoting sustainable development that would ensure the protection of the wealth of the sea and the economic and environmental sustainability of the sector.
written. - i support the adoption of a new maritime and fisheries fund, in particular the parts relating to subsidising the purchase of new vessels and the employment of young people in this sector. with a budget of eur 6,5 billion for the period 2014-2020, the fund will help eu fishermen to make their activities sustainable, while also financing projects that create new jobs to improve the quality of life along the coast. the eur 40 000 from the fund will enable fishermen over 50 to offer two years of paid work to young people under 35. fishermen will also receive subsidies to replace their old boats with less polluting ones. i hope that by implementing all the useful provisions of this fund, the specificities and differences between species and fishermen will be recognised and protected, such as the small-scale fishermen in croatia and the many fishermen for whom fishing is first and foremost a lifestyle and only then an activity.
written. - i accept the amended proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the european maritime and fisheries fund and repealing council regulations (ec) no 1198/2006 and (ec) no 861/2006 and council regulation (eu) no xxx/2011 on an integrated maritime policy. i consider that the emff should contribute to the objectives of promoting environmentally and economically sustainable and socially responsible fisheries, aquaculture and similar processing or marketing activities; promoting the balanced and inclusive territorial development of fisheries and aquatic areas; encouraging the implementation of the cfp, including its regionalisation and implementation and encouraging job creation in order to prevent the disappearance of fishing communities and to create better skills and working conditions in the fisheries sector.
written. - the maritime and fisheries fund is scheduled to run from 2014 to 2020, replacing the european fisheries fund. however, due to a dispute over the allocation of funds, the trialogue negotiations were temporarily suspended before christmas and implementation was delayed. the final compromise was reached in january 2014 and a compromise solution was identified by the commission, the council and the parliament. i support reforms to increase efficiency and access for potential beneficiaries such as fishermen and coastal communities. each member state received a share in the fund which depends on the size of the fishing industry in a particular member state of the union. i am pleased to note that the fund is not aimed at helping and encouraging the big fishing powers to increase their fleets and build even bigger vessels, but at equity and greater sustainability. i particularly welcome the amendment incorporated in the final text which states that the fund should take full account of the problems and specific needs of small-scale fisheries, bearing in mind that in the union it is the small-scale fleet that employs the most people per catch. that's why i voted yes.
written. - i supported this report because it is necessary to secure the seat of the european police college in order to ensure the survival and further operation of this agency, taking into account its essential role in training and bringing together police officers across europe. the eu should support operational police cooperation and training of law enforcement authorities. it is also necessary to ensure a smooth transition of cepol to its new location, also resulting from the duty of sincere cooperation as set out in the treaties, in the sense that all appropriate measures are taken to ensure compliance with the obligations arising from the acts of the institutions of the union. in view of the growing need for additional police forces and law enforcement officers, an independent and efficient european police college composed of the best qualified professionals is essential for the internal security of the eu and its citizens.
the european police college is an important agency bringing together european police officers and supporting national and cross-border cooperation in the fight against crime, the maintenance of public order and general security. in order to provide the european police college with the necessary stability and permanent residence, and the current situation with the area in the uk is controversial, it was decided to move the seat to budapest, whose government had proposed it. i agree that it is specified that the change of seat is only temporary and that the effectiveness of the regulation will be assessed at the latest 18 months and that the regulation will be revised by 2019 at the latest, including the implementation of a thorough cost-benefit analysis on the basis of which potential amendments would be submitted.
written. - in view of the fact that the united kingdom has decided that it no longer wishes to have cepol's headquarters in its city, i believe that the question of the future location of cepol should be resolved as soon as possible so that it can continue to function properly. because of the uncertainty surrounding the location, it has become a real challenge for cepol to attract and retain motivated personnel. the commission notes that the capital injections were made in the form of a capital injection of eur [...] million. the proposed building meets the requirements of the cepol secretariat, will offer some services and equipment free of charge and i consider it to be the best location for the future headquarters of cepol.
- the european police college (cepol) is currently based in bramshill, london. the commission notes that the taxable income of the company is not the same as that of the company in the form of dividends. the commission notes that the uk authorities have not provided any evidence that the sale of the assets of the company was carried out by the same company. the member states agreed (unanimously) within the council that cepol would be relocated to budapest, hungary, due to the best application and facilities offered. however, the european commission and the european parliament took the view that a formal decision and agreement on his relocation should be reached between all institutions, not just within the council. furthermore, several mps' clubs took a very negative stance on the relocation of cepol to hungary, and some would rather choose the hague for the new seat because of the previous criticism that the european parliament had addressed to the current hungarian government regarding data protection and fundamental rights, etc. however, europol and the member states considered that the relocation of cepol to the hague would be a step towards the merger of europol and cepol, which was not desirable. after a very quick trialogue and considerable political division, it was finally decided that the new seat would be in hungary, as agreed in the council.
on behalf of the ecr club. mr president, i fully support this proposal because the objectives it sets are a necessary prerequisite for the establishment of a genuinely free market, which is one of the reasons why this community was created. but there must be certain political and legal preconditions for such a high-quality directive to be implemented across the european union tomorrow. the commission has also taken the view that the commission's approach to the question of the compatibility of the aid with the internal market is not in line with the principles of the common market and that the commission's approach is not in line with the principles of the common market. unfortunately, i have to say that in a few member states these assumptions are not met, so i expect that a directive of this quality in those parts of the community will remain a dead letter on paper for some time to come. my croatia is just one of many countries where the political establishment has for years favored the big players in the market at the expense of the small ones that are systematically destroyed. this is not a coincidence, but a clear conflation of politics and big business that is manifested in unjustified laws and their selective enforcement. without judicial reform as a prerequisite for a genuine fight against corruption, this high-quality framework will not produce significant results, and the market will remain polluted for some time with those who, through political bargaining, gain a significant advantage over honest smes. i'm gonna support this proposal anyway because we have to start somewhere.
mr president, the european long-term investment funds put at the forefront what national governments often forget, long-term projects with the goals of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. in the political game, unfortunately, the short-term often has the advantage over the long-term because it's easier to score political points. such thinking, coupled with the resulting lack of any national strategy, has brought some member states to the brink of economic ruin. while citizens wait for the political elites to become aware and accountable in their political work, these funds will help to facilitate the achievement of essential infrastructure and economic objectives that guarantee the sustainability of national economies in the future. however, i believe that without providing stability for investors, these funds will not be of much help. judicial reform, the fight against corruption and the promotion of transparency on the one hand, and a stable fiscal policy with minimal regulation on the other, are the only real guarantee of getting the european economy back on track.
written. - the european asylum support office was established to strengthen practical cooperation between member states in the field of asylum, to implement the common european asylum system and to provide support to member states whose asylum and reception systems are under particular pressure. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council. the final text of the draft agreement with norway was initialled on 28 june 2013. i would point out that norway is not a member of the european union, but it is a member of the schengen area and therefore issues schengen visas. in conclusion, i support the conclusion of an agreement with the kingdom of norway on the modalities of its participation in the european asylum support office. the european union's migration policy is of great importance and cooperation with the countries around us needs to be clearly defined.
written. - the european asylum support office (easo) is tasked with supporting member states in their efforts to implement a consistent and fair asylum policy. since december 2011, liechtenstein has been an associate member of the schengen area and has been fully participating in the dublin system dealing with asylum applications. i support the report by my colleague ms metsole on the agreement with the principality of liechtenstein on the modalities of its participation in the european asylum support office and therefore the agreement itself. the support office shall be open to the participation of iceland, liechtenstein, norway and switzerland as observers. arrangements shall be made specifying in particular the nature, extent and manner of the participation of those countries in the support office. such arrangements shall include provisions on participation in the support office's initiatives, financial contributions and staff.
written. - in order to put the european economy back on a path of sustainable and inclusive growth under the europe 2020 strategy, it is essential to promote long-term financing as a key tool to achieve the goal. the european long-term investment funds (eltifs) provide long-term financing for various infrastructure projects, unlisted companies or listed smes that issue equity or debt instruments for which there is no direct buyer. in doing so, they contribute to the implementation of union policies and to the financing of the union economy. eltifs also offer excellent opportunities to increase the value of capital over time for those who do not have a stable and secure income stream. i support the draft of this proposal and hereby welcome the new possibilities of the funds. it is important to ensure that the fund is attractive to investors and competitive with other types of investment. small investors will now be able to redeem the fund before the end of the maturity in exceptional circumstances. the commission notes that the capital injections were made in the form of a capital injection of eur [...] million. this proposal aims to stimulate long-term investment in europe and thus boost the economy, and deserves our support.
written. - maritime spatial planning and integrated coastal management will contribute to promoting the sustainable development of maritime and coastal economies and the sustainable use of marine and coastal resources, and to opportunities for public and private investment, which will have an impact on all sectoral policies related to maritime and coastal space. the maritime space as a key element for renewable energy sources, oil and gas exploration, maritime and fisheries activities, ecosystem and biodiversity conservation, aquaculture facilities, tourism and fisheries resources needs coordination, linking or integration of spatial plans, integrated strategies and coastal area management. this would ensure the sustainable use of maritime space and the management of coastal areas. but social, economic, and environmental factors and goals must also be considered. therefore, i agree with the european commission that member states must designate competent authorities responsible for cooperation with other member states or non-eu countries in order to implement as well as possible programmes and exchange of good practices that contribute to positive processes for the development of strategies and plans for coastal and maritime spatial management.
written. - taking into account the example of the republic of croatia, where the management of the coast and the maritime area with over a thousand islands and over 4000 kilometres of extremely indented coastline is a very complex process containing many specificities compared to other member states, it is clear that creating an integrated coastal management process that would work for everyone is extremely difficult. the commission shall, by means of implementing acts, lay down the rules for the implementation of the union's integrated maritime policy and the rules for the implementation of the union's integrated maritime policy. of course, when these plans are being drawn up, it is important that the member states cooperate with each other, and i am therefore pleased that this is also highlighted in the report.
the european parliament and the council have agreed to adopt a directive on the establishment of a framework for maritime spatial planning and integrated coastal management. this will provide more flexibility for member states to choose how to implement icm and will allow them to decide for themselves whether to pursue an integrated approach to maritime spatial planning and coastal management or to make these strategies separate. i am voting in favour of this directive because it will meet european objectives as well as national objectives, which is of great importance not only for croatia but for all countries that want to preserve sustainable tourism and protect cultural heritage.
written. - i voted against because i believe that the commission proposal unnecessarily interferes with the competences of the member states of the union and in doing so violates the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality. the proposal aims to establish a procedural framework for the creation and implementation of maritime spatial planning and integrated coastal management strategies in the member states of the union. the same processes are the exclusive competence of individual member states of the union, while the proposal calls for the union to assume minimum competences such as mutual coordination and integration, a six-yearly review and the consideration of all relevant marine and coastal activities. i firmly believe that maritime spatial planning is the exclusive competence of each member state of the union in particular and that union action in this segment should not be present even in the minimum requirements. i also object to the concept of "essential ecosystem components" because i believe that they would place an excessive and unnecessary burden on local government.
written. - under union law on compensation for infringements of union or national competition law, each member state must have procedural rules to ensure the effective exercise of that right. the commission has also concluded that the aid granted to the beneficiary of the aid is compatible with the internal market. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the measures in question are imputable to the state. in order to ensure that the infringement of the rules is punishable by a fine, the commission should be able to impose fines on infringing undertakings for infringements of the rules. it is therefore necessary, given the often cross-border nature of large-scale infringements of competition law, to ensure a level playing field for undertakings operating in the internal market and to improve the conditions for consumers to exercise the rights arising from the internal market. the harmonisation of those rules will contribute to preventing major differences between the rules of the member states on compensation procedures in competition-related cases.
written. - union legislation is the embodiment of democracy and equality in the member states. the role of the union is to protect its citizens and i believe it is high time that we put an end to the irresponsible behaviour of the various companies operating in the union. appropriate support should be provided to victims and the main obstacles to effective compensation for victims should be removed. infringements of eu competition rules, such as price cartels and abuse of a dominant market position, may cause direct harm to defendants, customers and competitors (e.g. higher prices, lost profits). this directive aims to ensure that any citizen or company that suffers damage as a result of such infringements is entitled to compensation from the infringer. i support the commission's proposal because such a regulation is quite new and brings many benefits that protect consumers, but i express concern about certain items and insist on further revision and improvement of the regulation. it is in everyone's interest to prevent consumers from being harmed in any way by inadequate regulation and companies from taking advantage of this situation.
written. - each of europe's more than half a billion citizens generates more than half a tonne of waste per year in their homes every day, a huge number, not to mention the manufacturing and construction sectors. the european union as a whole produces around three billion tonnes of waste a year, which, as expected, creates a huge environmental problem, from pollution and greenhouse gas emissions that affect climate change, to financial and material costs. the commission should be able to verify that the waste is transported in a way that is compatible with the waste hierarchy. in order to contribute to the solution of this problem, the commission proposes that all member states make a publicly available inspection plan and set the strategy and objectives of inspections of waste shipments and the necessary resources. for environmental as well as economic reasons, i fully support the commission's objective and the rapporteur's proposals to further reinforce this objective, such as the proposal to make the plans and results of inspections by member states permanently available to the public, to increase the powers of the competent authorities and to increase cooperation between member states. i hope that this regulation will help us to tackle this environmental and economic problem in the context of increasing the efficiency and sustainability of the european union.
written. - new unknown psychoactive substances are a growing threat to european youth. their affordability, coupled with the fact that they are not listed as illegal substances, lures unsuspecting youths. the statistics indicating that as many as 5% of young people across the union have tried this type of drug are worrying. the lack of general public knowledge and awareness of the risks associated with their use contributes to the seriousness of the problem. since those substances are used for research purposes and in the manufacture of various products such as medicines and cleaning products, their restriction could have implications for various industries, while not contributing to the solution due to the speed of the emergence of new substances on the market. it is therefore of primary importance to establish a common union response that preserves the health of citizens while avoiding distortions of the internal market. i therefore supported this proposal which aims to provide support and resources at union and national level to facilitate regular and systematic cooperation between the emcdda, national focal points, healthcare and law enforcement representatives at national and regional level and bodies with relevant expertise, thereby preventing the misuse of new psychoactive substances and creating a safer and more productive community.
written. - the increasing variety and speed with which new psychoactive substances are appearing on the market poses a risk to citizens who are not fully informed and aware of the risks associated with their consumption. it is therefore important to establish a robust mechanism for the exchange of information between member states, the commission and the competent agencies in order to decide on a joint response to the emergence of new psychoactive substances on the market. it is particularly important to keep in mind children and young people who are a particularly vulnerable group to the dangers posed by new psychoactive substances on the market whose risks are not yet known. i am therefore pleased that parliament has included amendments which specifically draw attention to their safety and call for the necessary awareness-raising of children, adolescents and young people at school and at the wider educational level.
written. - in the last few years, the focus has shifted from conventional drugs like heroin, cocaine and marijuana to new psychoactive drugs. these new substances are confusing to lawmakers, police, and doctors because they abound in a number of variations of chemical formulas that the law cannot cover at the same speed. the list of new psychoactive substances is getting longer and more imaginative every day. they are emerging rapidly and spreading even faster across the european union and pose a serious threat to public health and safety. i therefore welcome this report, which calls on member states to cooperate with each other against the emergence and spread of psychoactive substances and to criminalise the production and trade of these substances. it is of the utmost importance that member states communicate to each other all relevant data such as newly discovered production facilities or retail prices. in addition to preventing production and trade, it is also crucial to inform the public, especially young people, about the harmful effects of new psychoactive substances.
written. - psychoactive substances, along with a number of other drugs, pose a threat to society because they interfere with rational behavior and common sense. they directly affect brain functioning resulting in the production of unwanted symptoms such as changes in consciousness, behavior and cognition. i support the report on criminal offences and legal penalties in the area of illicit drug trafficking. i consider that the establishment of minimum common rules throughout the union on the definition of criminal offences and penalties in the area of drug trafficking should ultimately contribute to the protection of public health and the reduction of the harmful consequences associated with drug trafficking and consumption. i agree that there is a need to provide evidence-based and useful public health information to eu citizens and to act preventively in a way that warns users early to reduce and protect against harmful effects. i also welcome the proposal that the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction should support member states in collecting and sharing accurate, comparable and reliable information and data on drug supply. croatia has a developed institutional framework for the implementation of preventive and educational programmes and its police cooperate with member states, neighbouring countries as well as the police of the united states and south america.
written. - the european union and japan have been strategic partners since 2003. i support the report on the negotiations on the eu-japan strategic partnership agreement as i believe that it would further enhance relations through the timely conclusion of the negotiations. the european union and japan share values that we consider to be core values of the union such as democracy, the rule of law and the promotion of human rights and i call for a reaffirmation of common values. i also call for strengthening political dialogue on bilateral cooperation and sectoral dialogues. i consider it necessary to improve cooperation, as set out in the report, on political, security and peace-building issues, including information sharing, non-proliferation, disarmament, destruction of weapons of mass destruction, cyber security and the fight against international crime such as trafficking in human beings and drugs, piracy and terrorism. croatia has been developing diplomatic relations with japan for many years, and significant political cooperation between the two countries is carried out through the cooperation of the croatian and japanese parliaments. bilateral relations between croatia and japan within the croatian parliament are promoted by the croatian-japanese inter-parliamentary friendship group.
written. - it is important to remember the slogan of the european union - united in diversity. religious differences have been used for centuries to justify the bloody wars in europe. since religious intolerance is totally unacceptable and irreconcilable with the objectives of the european union, it is our duty to defend these values while respecting the other values of the union, but also respecting the other countries of the european union. i therefore support the view of the committee on foreign affairs, of which i am a member, that we should make it clear that fundamentalist and exclusive interpretations of religion that result in, for example, the death penalty are incompatible with the values of the union and that we must oppose them with the same resilience with which we would oppose any repressive political regime.
mr president, i see that the majority of the speakers are from the greek-speaking area and that they are discussing internal greek problems. i would like to thank mr samaras and the greek presidency for their efforts, which despite the internal problems that greece is currently facing, have managed to deal with the general european problems and with all the values that we all stand for together. so i thank you, mr. samaras. i spoke at the beginning of your presidency and i was pleased that you put the emphasis on maritime policy, as i come from croatia, from a region close to you. you also failed to mention in your introduction the establishment of the adriatic-ionian macro-region. i'd love to continue working on this together. i look forward to the italian presidency, as we are neighbours, continuing to work on this project, and as regards all the other achievements you have mentioned, i welcome both the banking union and the common market and all that you have done in economic terms. however, it should be noted that youth unemployment and unemployment in general has not decreased and that this remains a persistent problem and i agree with president barros who said that we should continue to work on this because europe now has a set of instruments that it can use, which did not exist before, and i believe that we will continue to work together on the same problem with the italian presidency.
mr president, i thank prime minister samaras for his comprehensive report and i would like to say that, since greece held the presidency in 2003 when croatia applied for membership, it is nice that at the end of your second presidency we are sitting here after other european elections as a full member. i would like to congratulate you on the adoption of the european union maritime strategy, which was a horizontal priority of your presidency, and in particular in the context of the adoption of the adriatic-ionian macro-regional strategy, which i believe is equally important as it is a priority and links four countries that are members of the european union and four countries that are not, and in this regard i expect exceptional cooperation from croatia and greece. i also appreciate the efforts to complete the banking union and to adopt the statute for european political parties, which is also a great achievement after these elections and will contribute to strengthening european powers in the european parliament and in europe.
mr president, mr prime minister, the european union is still waiting to recover from the crisis. and the crisis is both an economic crisis and a vision crisis. it is therefore justified to develop innovative programmes for economic growth during the presidency, as well as to encourage an open debate on concepts for the union itself. this presidency falls in a transitional period because the new commission will not be appointed until the end of your term. however, you can also use the chairmanship to give your full commitment to existing programmes. one is the adriatic-ionian initiative. over 70 million people gravitate to this space, and the initiative already includes priorities like investment and energy independence. it links four member states and four countries that wish to become member states. a similar model of community between member states and neighbours would also be beneficial for the union as a whole, as the recovery of the european project depends to a large extent on the stability and european perspective of our neighbours. i'm a representative from croatia, which has a lot of ties to italy. yet what connects us best is our adriatic sea. i call on italy to show, during its presidency, additional sensitivity to the proud community of small-scale fishermen and to adapt european legislation to their needs, traditions and lifestyles. allow me also to express my deep regret at the recent immigrant tragedy off sicily, in which 35 people lost their lives. it's a reminder that unfortunate people from unfortunate areas have been losing their lives for years trying to get to europe. it is also a new alarm that immigration and asylum seeking in the european union are not properly coordinated or defined. mr. prime minister, i want the italian presidency to be as convincing to the citizens of the european union as the policies of your government are to the citizens of italy.
floods in the republic of croatia in may affected 35,000 people, 13,000 of whom were evacuated. many of these people lost almost all their possessions and still live with relatives or friends. over 8,000 hectares of farmland were flooded, and more than 10,000 animals died. although it has been almost two months since the floodwaters washed over the town hall, life has not yet returned to the abandoned villages. despite the great solidarity of the rest of croatia and the enormous energy that volunteers and humanitarians have invested in helping the victims, the question remains open as to when the housing and economic capacities will be ready to receive their tenants and users again. i would therefore like to appeal to the institutions of the european union to help rebuild the flooded areas of the republic of croatia and thus ensure that the victims return to their homes as soon as possible.
speaking of ukraine today, pessimists claim that post-revolutionary ukraine has been engulfed in a dead-end civil war, sponsored by russia. some add that russia's goal is not to annex parts of ukraine but to permanently destabilize the whole country, blockade the european path and strengthen the union's energy and thus political dependence on moscow. it is precisely for these reasons that the recent signing of the brussels-kiev association agreement should be welcomed. this has largely removed the dilemma of ukraine's future. it is not a valid part of some post-soviet space but a country in the regular process of joining the european union. the european union is committed to the principle of subsidiarity, and the european union is committed to the principle of subsidiarity. i believe that the association agreements signed at the same time with moldova and georgia have also removed the shadows on the question of their future. the so-called guam countries have been exposed for too long to the negative consequences of the tensions between the new east and the new west, as well as the pernicious rule of domestically corrupt regimes.
mr president, commissioner füle, thank you for your report. ukraine and the crisis in ukraine today is a real test of the credibility of the european union's foreign policy and its holistic approach, from our values, violations of international law, respect for the territorial integrity and integrity of ukraine to economic relations, enlargement policy, energy policy, relations with strategic partners. coming from croatia, it's not hard for me to recognize what's happening in ukraine today. the parallels with the aggression against croatia in the early 1990s and what is happening today in ukraine, the support of the rebels by the russian federation in relation to what was in croatia and the support of serbia are quite clear and very transparent. what we need to do today is to continue to put pressure on the russian federation with further restrictive measures, to pursue a coherent, clear foreign policy of all actors, and under the leadership of both the high representative and the commissioner, but also to say clearly to the association agreement and to improve and accelerate the ratification process and to support president poroshenko's peace plan with ukraine's right to exercise control over its territory.
the situation in ukraine has not improved much since we last discussed this subject. unfortunately, i foresaw such a turn of events because it was clear that due to particular interests the european union would not take more decisive action towards russia. russia has knowingly undermined the sovereignty and territorial integrity of ukraine, of which it is itself a hostage under the budapest agreement. it makes moscow a completely unreliable interlocutor in international affairs, and it requires us to take a different stance. crimea is rarely mentioned in the context of an open issue today, which is shameful from the perspective of a free-loving and democratic community such as the european union claims to be. i call for tougher sanctions and an urgent agreement among member states on a unified approach to russia so that we can finally put an end to the instability in the east of our continent. we do not need further integration, common institutions or an eu army, but only a little good will and common sense.
member of the commission. - madam president, what shall i begin with after this very long debate – a very rich one also? it seems to me that several debates are mixed up: the debate on whether or not you are in favour of trade; the debate on whether or not you consider the united states to be a fair partner; and the debate on whether or not negotiations are sufficiently transparent. let me start with the first one: for or against trade. i realise after this debate – and i have to say also before the debate – there are a number of members in this parliament that i will never persuade that trade makes sense. i will never convince them because they are against trade so what can i change about that? i could reply with a question: can you give me an example, be it by the far left or the far right (which by the way has disappeared – they are not there any more, they have left in peace) of a country, of a society that has been able to develop without trade? if you give me some of those examples then i am ready to discuss further with you. secondly, the united states: i already mentioned in my introduction that this looks a little bit to me like a kulturkampf, for or against the united states. i find this a rather strange debate, because obviously we differ on a number of issues with the united states – as i do myself as well, and i largely prefer the european way of life to the american way of life – but is that what it is about? i thought it was about trying to work together so that we can create jobs and growth in our own countries. i thought that was what it was about. i do not want to be the same as the united states’ citizens, and most of them do not want to be like europeans either, or at least like some of us. it is about finding solutions together, to grow, to have more impetus in our economy. that is what it is about; it is not about changing american society, it is not about changing our society. we are different and we want to be different, but does it mean we cannot work together? if we cannot work together with the united states, with whom then can we work together? they are different from us but are all the rest then closer to us? the agreement with canada has also been mentioned today, which is in fact ready apart from a couple of lines, maybe not even that. that agreement too is now called into question. we have made an agreement with singapore. are we going to relinquish it? last week we initialled the economic partnership agreement with ecowas, with the west of africa. can we still speak with them? today the epa agreement with sadc has been initialled. do we refuse to even discuss that because they are not the same as we are? what is the sense of that? it is about working together; it is not about being identical. please! then there is the discussion on transparency. there has never been a trade agreement conducted in as much transparency as this one – never! for a number of reasons: it is only since the treaty of lisbon that this parliament has the competence to ratify agreements. as long as you did not have that competence obviously that was different, and now we have to adapt to that new situation, but i would claim that we have been doing this with a lot of diligence. our positions, the positions of the commission, you can read them on our website. if you read them all you are going to spoil your summer holidays you can be sure of that, because there are thousands and thousands of pages there. at the start of this commission we agreed that all the documents that we give to the member states and to the european council, we would also give to the european parliament. that has never happened before, you know, and again with ttip negotiations we have been doing that in a very diligent way. now there are of course a number of difficult problems in this. for example the council – and i am pleased that they are finally are present – refused to make the mandate public. i asked – no, let me start a little bit earlier. madame bricq, the former french minister of trade, wrote me a letter some time ago saying: why don't you make the mandate public? it was their mandate, it is not mine. it is a council document. it is not a parliamentary document. and again in may we had the discussion at my request with the council, a very long discussion by the way, to make the mandate public. again there was no majority for doing that. now it seems that finally they have come to the conclusion that maybe it is not such a bad idea to make it public. by the way, everybody has it. it is on the internet. so what are you talking about? it is on the internet. you are questioning me on the basis of texts that you have, but that obviously you have not read, because if you had read those texts you will see that we are not going to change the phytosanitary norms, the norms for the protection of the environment, for labour rights and whatever. it is explicitly in the mandate that you all have, or at least you should have read before starting this debate. on the problem of the reading rooms: i am against reading rooms. i do not like them. what is the problem with this? the problem with this is that the united states – which is also a big economy, they are also negotiating a lot of trade agreements, for example the trans-pacific partnership with a lot of countries in asia – the way that they inform their members of parliament is by inviting them to a reading room, having the documents at their disposal. they can read them, they get information about it, they can ask questions about it, they cannot take copies and hopefully they leave happy. that is the practice on the hill in washington. you should understand from me that it is rather difficult to convince the americans to give to us more than they give to their own members of parliament about their text. because our texts are known, our positions are known. it is about their positions. if they give us a document saying: ‘you can only make it available to your parliamentarians the way we make it available to our parliamentarians’, i cannot change much about that. but can you call that secrecy? really, anybody who wants to follow what happens – i hope he or she does not get bored, that is something else – can amuse themselves every day with it. every day there is something new about this. it must be fascinating, because so many people are interested in knowing something that does not yet exist. because everybody is against this agreement to my knowledge – and i should know – but there is no agreement yet. we started the negotiations a year ago; we have six rounds of negotiations, the sixth one is ongoing at the moment. we have had two political stock-takes. we are making progress on a number of issues but we still have an enormous number of difficulties: with respect to market taxes for example, where we say that we need much more market access for public procurement, much more; where we say that not all tariffs will disappear, that there will be a number of sensitive agricultural products where the tariffs as such will not disappear. probably there will be a system of what they call trqs, tariff rated quotas, but we are not going to give that up. we are not negotiating about lowering standards in these negotiations. for example, we are negotiating how we could make a number of regulations more compatible by sticking to the levels of protection that we presently have in the european union. that is what we are doing, with a lot of time and effort, with dozens of people continuously working on it. and yes, making progress, but also realising that this will be a very difficult agreement, because we have a lot of offensive interests in this agreement, on everything: on market taxes, on tariffs, on services, on public procurement, on investment, on regulations. but we have also defensives on almost everything, and you can imagine that this is not the most comfortable position when you are a negotiator. so these are difficult negotiations and we are working hard on it but please, as a lot of members have been saying at the end of the intervention, judge on the result. do not forecast a result that i do not have the faintest idea about myself, because we are in this process of negotiation. there has been a specific question and maybe i should say something about it, about national parliaments. will the national parliaments have to pronounce on this? i think so, for the very simple reason that this will be a mixed agreement. if it comes about it will be a mixed agreement, and if it is a mixed agreement then national parliaments also have to pronounce. but we are not making those rules, read the lisbon treaty and you will see that for a pure trade agreement you only need the agreement, the ratification by the european parliament. if it is mixed, it is also the national parliaments, and we comply with the rules that exist and that we respect. yes, we will continue to make initiatives to get more transparency into the process. i can tell you that over the last months i have spoken, i do not know how many times exactly but certainly more than 100 times, about ttip in all kinds of places that i had never been before. on isds, please give me a little bit of time to respond to about 50 interventions that have been made, because if not, they will say afterwards that i have not been transparent. we received 150 000 replies to our consultation on isds: 150 000, that is a lot. but tens of thousands of these replies are identical because it is obvious that there are people in europe that are very good at working with all these tools and obviously they have found a way of entering a reply without getting into the system. normally you have to get into the system and then you have to read 12 questions and you have to answer 12 questions and then you have to send your reply. a way has been found to circumvent this and give replies without getting into the system, with the result that tens of thousands of these replies are identical. so we will now analyse all this very scrupulously, qualitatively and quantitatively, and we will see what is in it. once we have that we will make a report on it, and once that report is ready it will be at everybody’s disposal, yours first of all, and then we will discuss this with member states in the council of ministers and with the european parliament, and then the commission – probably the next one – will make up its mind about what they will do with isds with the rest of the negotiation. that is the process that we will follow. it will take time. it will take a lot of time and i think some officials in the commission can forget about their summer holidays. let me just tackle one more issue that has been mentioned – it is very interesting for the climate in which all this is happening – and that is geographical indications (gis). we get attacked because maybe gis will not be protected, and this would be terrible. by the way, this european commission has been doing more than anybody else to protect gis. in all the agreements that we have been concluding – with canada, with singapore – there is now a full protection of gis in the epas, so we have really fostered that idea. whatever we get in this agreement with the united states on gis, it will be more than we presently have. do not start from the assumption that at present gis are protected in the united states. what we will try to do is protect them in the united states and we will make sure that it happens, but presently this is not the case, so you should rather be in favour of ttip if you are for the protection of gis. let me finish, madam president, because i see that you are going to interrupt me very soon and i have a lot of understanding for that. let us try to be a little bit more rational in this whole discussion. i have participated in the european elections not in an active way but in a passive way, and i am very happy to say that today, finally, i can also participate in an active election campaign meeting. but that is what a parliament is for. what parliament is also for is looking at the arguments, listening to the arguments and discussing on the basis of arguments, and then of course in all freedom, in full sovereignty, voting on what the commission finally, sooner or later, will propose to you.
written. the transatlantic trade and investment partnership is a rapprochement between two economic superpowers that can boost growth, development and jobs on both sides of the atlantic. no one in their right mind can be a priori against negotiation and the potential it holds. what we can't afford is for the sake of a free market, we sacrifice the freedom of choice and give up the right to say no to things we don't want. no gmo, no meat treated with chlorine and hormones, no vegetables filled with pesticides, no new actas. we cannot expect the european union to get everything it wants at the negotiating table. however, european consumer protection and food safety standards must be a line that cannot be crossed, conditio sine qua non. this is our obligation and responsibility to european consumers, producers and farmers. yes to overseas trade, economic growth and jobs, not to under-the-table trade, uncontrolled imports and the deepening of the eu's democratic deficit.
written. the five rounds of negotiations so far have raised at least as many questions as they have answered. the reason for this is, apart from the divergence of the positions of the two parties, the lack of available information on the content of the negotiation process. it is therefore frivolous to accept or reject a treaty that is still being negotiated when we know very little about it. what is known is that with each new round it becomes clearer that the goal of an early conclusion of the negotiations is less likely, all the more so as we are in the eu in the process of constituting a new mandate of institutions and in the us closer to the elections in the autumn. i think that the european negotiators should not be burdened by the time limits set. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the conditions for the participation of third countries in union programmes in the field of research and technological development. the free movement of citizens on both sides of the atlantic should be a prerequisite for the free trade of goods, which is not the case for nationals of the five member states of the union. the expected values can only be achieved through high-quality agreements that preserve european social and cultural values, environmental standards, geographical origin, the right to oppose genetically modified organisms, cloned and hormone-treated food and the protection of private data.
madam president, i have taken the withdrawal of this directive as the beginning of a new conversation and the basis for a new directive. so i support the withdrawal of the directive because it has clearly not taken effect after five years. five years was enough time to come to some common solution. since that has not happened, i think it is up to us to answer what subsidiarity is, and when you mention mr juncker, let me answer you, he said that he would give as much power as possible to the national parliaments and that he would deal with the big projects. so we have to decide what we are going to deal with here in the european parliament and what we are going to deal with at home in the national parliaments. of course it would be nice to reach a compromise, a minimum of agreement, but so different are our countries, our peoples, our levels of development, so different is our demographic picture of individual countries that it is really very difficult to reach a common solution that will satisfy us all. i'll give you an example from croatia, where i come from. you have six months, which means 24 weeks of mandatory paid leave and the next 24 weeks, which means six months of half pay. it's almost impossible when we have to implement these structural reforms to stay on this model, but of course we all stand for mothers, for the protection of mothers, women and of course, the protection of workers.
madam president, the maternity leave directive was supposed to guarantee mothers in the european union a minimum duration of maternity leave with adequate remuneration, following good practice, which has not been done. maternity benefits vary across the eu member states and can be said to be generally more flexible and dynamic, albeit with significantly shorter maternity leave than in croatia. unfortunately, in some lands maternity leave is so short that it prevents mothers from being with their child during the time when the child needs it most, and in some lands women return to work very soon after giving birth because they are not expected to be there or because the benefits are substantially less than their salary and cannot cover the costs. i am in favour of ensuring that women are given an adequate length of maternity leave, that they are paid full pay during maternity leave, that they are guaranteed a return to their old jobs. but i want to stress that the bad demographic trends in the european union cannot be stopped and reversed in a positive direction by these measures alone. there is a need for thoughtful, systematic, long-term interventions, from the local community to central government institutions.
thank you, madam president. the eu's youth unemployment rate is still too high. i'm glad that in this house, there is a recognition of this problem and a consensus that it must be treated with the utmost seriousness. but unfortunately, we have not yet reached a consensus on measures that would be effective and beneficial for all member states. in fact, i think we are going in the wrong direction in trying to find a universal solution without taking into account the specificities of each member state. from the perspective of poorer member states, youth mobility is a disastrous solution that only improves statistical indicators in the short term. for example, if germany needs workers, while in some member states many young people are unemployed, then logic dictates that they should seek happiness in germany. this is good for germany, of course, but it is disastrous for the poorer members who are thus heading for economic and demographic collapse. if we want a healthy union of sustainable economies, we need to address this problem at member state level. first of all, we need to work on further linking the education system and the real sector so that young people can meet the needs of the labour market after leaving school. i also believe it is crucial to encourage the entrepreneurial spirit of young people and to make it as easy as possible for them to start private companies. europe today offers countless opportunities for young people. the only option that young people from the poorer member states currently lack is the very possibility of surviving in their own country, among their loved ones. if we want a europe of equality, solidarity and a bright future, we must make that possible.
mr. president, unemployment and youth unemployment are alarming and we need to respond with stronger and more concrete measures. it's important to provide the funds, but it's also important how the funds are spent and whether they actually deliver results. in defining measures, we need to listen to young people, involve them in decision-making. what are the young people telling us? young people want incentives for entrepreneurs, for job creation, they want incentives for self-employment and youth entrepreneurship, for start-ups. what don't young people want? they don't want social security, and they're getting it most of all. we can't be passive and bring young people to the wall to enjoy social measures because there is nothing else. for example, in croatia, the government has introduced vocational training measures. young people work for 210 euros a year and a few stay employed. employers are not motivated to hire a young person after this measure because they are not entitled to the benefits they normally receive for their first employment. the young are not for this, but they are in a hopeless situation they were against its abolition because the government had no intention of introducing a better quality replacement measure. they made the young think, "at least something is better than nothing". the young didn't deserve that. we need to change and work with young people to design and implement programmes and measures to improve their employment and education.
written. we are aware of the dramatic increase in youth unemployment and i am therefore particularly pleased that this topic has taken its place at the beginning of the new ep session, and it is also commendable that the newly elected president of the commission, juncker, has identified tackling youth unemployment as one of his priorities. it is good that there is a european social fund, a youth guarantee and a youth employment initiative. all these are tools to help solve this big problem, but it's a real solution in creating a culture that is conducive to the development of smes, creating a conducive economic environment that can create growth and development, in creating a flexible labour market, and in removing bureaucratic obstacles. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the environment and its implementation in the member states. the sad fact is that today we are talking about the 29th member state, and that is the country of the unemployed. we must therefore do everything we can to make the economy work for people, not the other way around, and to make it the main lever for the employment of young people. i have to mention croatia as a negative example because youth unemployment has been around 50% for several years so the policy has failed both on the test of using european instruments, but also on the plan of implementing reforms and strengthening the croatian economy.
the euro is the official currency of the european union. the persistence of structural reforms and fiscal consolidation in lithuania has resulted in the fulfilment of the euro adoption criteria. inflation was 0.6% in april this year, well below the reference value of 1.7%. the government debt stood at 39,4% of gdp at the end of 2013 and the central government deficit at 2,1%. the commission notes that the lithuanian authorities have not provided any evidence that the measures in question were necessary to restore the long-term viability of the bank. thanks to the efforts made by lithuania in recent years to implement the convergence rules, lithuania will become part of a society in which it will participate in decision-making that will help strengthen the euro and secure the benefits of the euro as a currency. transaction costs, the reluctance of credit agencies (the entry into the eurozone will raise the country's credit rating) are a thing of the past. the fall in prices, the increase in competitiveness and exports are the benefits of the euro. it is up to croatia, as well as the other member states, to make additional efforts to meet the convergence objectives and secure the benefits of euro area membership.
in writing. at today's meeting, i supported the report on the adoption of the euro in lithuania. i respect that the decision to adopt the euro in lithuania was taken by the democratic authorities of the republic of lithuania. personally, i prefer that my country decide to adopt the euro in a referendum, but the form of adopting the euro is a matter for each member country and its citizens.
written. - i welcome the efforts made by the lithuanian authorities in the past period as lithuania has emerged as a serious country when it comes to implementing reforms. this is confirmed by the fact that of the eight eu countries assessed by the european commission, including croatia, only lithuania meets the convergence criteria for adopting the euro. i hope that the council of ministers will also confirm the commission's recommendation and that lithuania will adopt the euro on 1 january 2015 because for a country like lithuania, but also croatia, joining the eurozone brings more benefits than costs, as lithuania is highly 'euroised'. the consequence of high 'euroisation' is that citizens hold savings in euros, and the currency clause and exchange rate differentials have a negative impact on the population, but also on the economy, because they are exposed to exchange rate risk. for example, citizens in croatia, which is under an excessive deficit procedure, are currently "paying" the price of not being in the eurozone, and so, because of exchange rate differences, housing loan rates, as well as other types of lending, are often extremely high. the introduction of the euro would avoid such a possibility. therefore, for the sake of lithuanian businessmen and citizens, i welcome the introduction of the euro and hope that croatia will follow lithuania's example and meet the criteria set to join lithuania and the other members of the euro area.
mr president, the crisis we have with the remaining outstanding payments is a recurring crisis, one we talked about last year and which was in some ways part of the compromise in the adoption of the multiannual financial framework. we know that the announcement of this scenario and our colleague lewandovski already in april very clearly foreseen. the problems we have with payments for both research and employment and for cohesion policy, education, commitments in the implementation of foreign policy, fisheries are essentially the key problem of what the european union should be, which is added value for investment, for work, for employment. so i think we need to find a solution as soon as possible. i would like to make a special appeal to the council, since the funds that have already been allocated in some way must be paid - this is important for the credibility of the european budget, for the fulfilment of the commitments undertaken, but also for the new spirit after these european elections, where we all, as newly elected members of parliament, are obliged to take care of the efficient financial management of the european union.
written. - most importantly, the signing of the association agreement with ukraine, which should be a turning point in political life. the european money of 11 billion euros is needed to be used to stabilize the country and implement reforms. the eu's foreign policy influence in the case of ukraine should be reflected in respect for european values, but also in the enlargement of the neighbourhood policy, energy policy, but also in relation to the violation of territorial integrity and violation of international law. it is necessary to pursue a clear foreign policy and to continue the pressure and restrictions on russia. i want to welcome the peace plan of president poroshenko and its most important point, that is the right of ukraine to control its territory. i also want to support the ratification and the swift implementation of the eu-ukraine association agreement.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i supported the adoption of this resolution on youth employment in order to finally, seriously and effectively encourage the solution of one of the biggest problems facing the european union today, namely the high level of youth unemployment. the situation is most alarming in southern europe, and the republic of croatia is not exempt from the difficulties caused by the economic crisis, which has unfortunately hit young people on the threshold of their working life the hardest. as many as one third of the unemployed in the republic of croatia are young people between the ages of 15 and 29. young people are also leaving croatia for other countries because in the republic of croatia they cannot exercise their right to work, and the right to work is a human right and if it is not ensured for everyone then it is the result of the wrong policy. i welcome the call in the resolution for effective monitoring of the implementation of the youth guarantee, because of the 6 billion euros spent so far, almost nothing has been spent in the member states of the european union, and the problem still exists.
written. - i supported the resolution of my colleague case on youth unemployment. the eu faces a high youth unemployment rate of 22.5%, while in croatia unemployment among young people under 25 is as high as 48.7%. the issue of youth unemployment is important in the context of achieving the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy which aims to increase employment among 20-64 year-olds to 75% and reduce early school leaving to 10%. the member states have a great responsibility to focus on designing concrete measures for youth employment to help young people not to be socially excluded without work, education or training. youth unemployment in croatia has become a social and economic problem, and the government has offered one-off and insufficient measures of a social nature that will not affect higher employment in the long term. i believe that the education system needs to be brought into line with the requirements of the modern labour market. the union's macro-financial assistance should be directed to the following priority areas: i expect the government to make effective use of the €125 million available by the end of 2015 under the youth guarantee facility for youth employment.
in this case, madam president, the commission has responded really quickly and well to the embargo imposed by russia, the assistance provided directly or indirectly is absolutely necessary and there is clearly political will in this house to support the commission's policy to the end. exports to russia in percentage terms don't even seem to be that big. however, for some countries it is extremely high, and for any farmer who experiences a disaster, it naturally puts his survival in question. so i ask the commission what we will do if the embargo continues, what is our response in a strategic sense to this question and i suggest that we first look for new markets, that we go aggressively to new markets and it is good to invest in marketing in this sense. second, that all the countries and the member states of the european union really get involved and third, that this is really "taken advantage of", implemented and brought to schools. finally, i would like to say that the embargo concerns products which we will soon be charging, and so in many mediterranean countries we will soon be charging for mandarins and other products, and i hope that the commission will have the same attitude towards these products as it has had up to now. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
the question he raised by raising his blue card. mr. jakovcic, i listened to your presentation very carefully. i'm curious, do you personally think and believe that these economic sanctions can affect russia's imperialist policy and are farmers the ones who should feel the first sanctions, and here i am thinking particularly of farmers from croatia. you mentioned the tangerines. the commissioner just said that it's not a perishable fruit, citrus is exempt. how can we influence citrus fruits to fall into this category and to become perishable fruits, because they are.
answer the question posed by raising the blue card. mrs. šuica, it's a political crisis, so it's about the fact that politics has led, in this particular case, russia's politics to this situation. we're talking about politics here. we are talking about agricultural producers and if there is the political will, and i think there is the political will in this house, to help all the farmers who are going to be in trouble because of the fact that we have an embargo, i believe that we can help them with citrus fruit. i think the commission has shown that so far and i expect it to continue with this policy.
madam president, the deterioration of relations with russia and the introduction of economic sanctions have hit the agricultural sector hard across the european union. the exclusion of mandarins from the subsidised products is a particular problem for croatia. more than 2 000 family farms are directly affected by the sanctions, i.e. almost 20 000 people who are subsistence dependent on this production. direct subsidies are never the best solution, especially if they are not distributed fairly. in emergencies, the market proves to be a poor manager. in order to keep money within the european union, it is necessary to create demand on the european market by encouraging the purchase of fresh products and their processing within the union. it is necessary to create instruments for indirect market stimulation with the aim of creating demand on the european market. i have already drawn the attention of the commission by asking a question that these are fresh products and that immediate measures are needed to allow the purchase of fresh mandarins on the internal market of the european union or their processing into semi-finished or finished products. any other long-term measures are commendable, but too late for this year's harvest.
madam president, i must point out that this is not an agricultural crisis, but a political problem, and i therefore believe that the damage caused to farmers by the russian embargo should be compensated outside the agricultural budget, which is already insufficient to cover all the needs of european farmers. the commission has not yet taken measures to cover all agricultural products which also account for a significant part of exports to russia, such as milk, meat and citrus fruit. i have already called on the european commission on several occasions to help the dairy farmers who are already in a serious crisis and whose wound has been softened by the conflict with russia. for us in croatia, as well as in the other mediterranean countries, an important part of exports to russia are mandarin oranges which were not included in the list of products for which compensation will be paid, and i hereby publicly call on the european commission to make accurate calculations taking into account the specificities of the member states and to provide funds for all farmers who, through no fault of their own, have found themselves in a difficult situation. the european union must find a way to protect its own food production, and caution is needed when concluding new trade agreements that could ultimately be unfavourable to european farmers. one of the most attractive markets for milk, fruit and vegetables is certainly schools, so the european commission should increase the financial resources that subsidize so-called healthy meals for children in schools. i would like to remind you once again of the need to change the criteria in order to allow croatia, as a new member state, to participate in these programmes, because the current criteria are discriminatory for us and our children.
madam president, the ban on exports to russia is a major blow to european agriculture, as last year alone the european union exported agricultural products worth 12 billion euros to russia. the commission has not received any comments from interested parties. in particular, i would like to highlight the small producers who are not price competitive with the big ones, with almost dumped prices for their products, and whose quality is often questionable. they have a harder time adjusting to exports to other world markets because they don't have enough resources. and it is the small farms in croatia that account for as much as 90% of the total. mandarins are the only croatian product not included in the compensation list, and almost 40% of the total production was to be exported to the russian market. apple producers are also strongly affected - the sanctions have also seriously affected croatia, which is why more adequate solutions must be found.
madam president, the last meeting of the council of ministers showed that the measures decided by the commission are not sufficient in terms of either the resources or the scope. in addition, measures to help producers of certain fruit and vegetables worth eur 125 million were suspended due to an overload of applications. two things are crucial in situations like this: elaborate measures and quick reaction. it is in our mutual interest to work together to resolve this situation as quickly and as efficiently as possible, but i stress, respecting each other's specificities. croatia exports 1,3% of its agri-food products to the russian market. we are particularly concerned about the export of fruit, especially mandarins, which have increased several-fold in recent years. however, citrus fruits are not included in the commission's scheme at present. i consider it necessary to respond as quickly as possible to the specific requests of all member states because of the existence of an economy that depends on a timely response, but also because of the fact that market disturbances in one member state spill over into others, thus increasing their consequences.
madam president, the russian response to the sanctions comes in the form of this ban which is very painful for european food producers. many of them will probably ask the question: 'did the european union need to engage in ukraine, which is costing us quite a lot now?' i believe it did, because i believe that we should do the right thing despite the consequences. i welcome the commission's package of intervention measures in the fruit and vegetables sector and i believe that we must not allow this burden to fall solely on the shoulders of european producers. i also call on the commission to include mandarins in the package, as croatian mandarins producers will be particularly affected by this ban. in particular, 50% of croatian mandarins exports go to the russian market, which means that in the current circumstances croatian producers will lose more than eur 10 million. such a loss can have devastating consequences for the agricultural sector in a small country like croatia.
madam president, speaking of women's rights, i think that in the so-called arab spring, women played a very important role, but unfortunately later it didn't go in the direction it should have. in any case, i am in favour of this agreement - the creation of a zone of peaceful neighbourhood, because it is a framework for resolving conflicts. we need to help countries in transition, and i believe that the economy should be at the service of politics. strengthening cooperation is a priority, and the basis for all this was the barcelona process in 1995. i would like to stress cooperation in all areas, but particularly in the area of the environment, because we have not mentioned it much, and i believe that we all share a common concern to take care of the mediterranean sea and to preserve the environment. i think there is a lot that individual countries can do at national level, but regional cooperation is also very important and we are looking forward to the outcome of the meeting on 30 september, which will show what can be done at the level of local government, self-government and regions.
mr president, i was delighted when the union for the mediterranean initiative was launched, i also had the opportunity to work within arlem, to represent europe in this area and i must say that i have become well acquainted with all the needs of our friends in the southern mediterranean. i definitely support this agreement, i support the negotiations, but it is absolutely right and necessary that we also protect our interests, both global and general, from human rights to everything that is european values, and also to those that are very, very concrete and i will be very, very specific - the olive oil problem, for example, is one of those problems that exist when we talk about the competitiveness of our product on the world market, or rather, in our europe itself, because i know that a lot of olive oil is imported from the southern mediterranean, mixed with our olive oil and then sold as european olive oil. of course, i'm talking about quality here. there are certainly other examples of this, but i know this one, and that's why i want to emphasize that it's very important to know the country of origin of each product.
mr. president, according to the un, child labor has been in steady decline since 2000; it's been reduced by a third. and as we make progress globally in this area, the bolivian congress passed a new law on children's rights on july 2 this year, lowering the minimum age for employment from 14 to 12 and for self-employment to 10. this makes bolivia the only country in the world that allows 10-year-olds to work. these children in bolivia are doing, in some cases, heavy physical labor, like working in sugar beet fields or in mines. the bolivian government's argument for passing this law is that child labor is necessary in bolivia to reduce poverty. but child labor may seem to some to be a solution - it may be only a short-term solution, because in fact, such a solution only amplifies, only increases poverty in the long run. unicef, therefore, expressed concern about the inconsistency of the bolivian law with the international convention on the minimum age for employment. and it is one of the conventions that countries must ratify if they want to meet the criteria for obtaining and using the gsp, or general system of benefits. bolivia has ratified the minimum age convention and has enjoyed customs privileges since january 1 of this year. however, shortly after using the customs privileges, the government of eva morales changed this law, leaving the impression that the european union and the european parliament were deceived. so we from the european people's party have sent this question to the european commission, i'll read it in the original in english: does the commission believe that this new legislation prima facie puts bolivia in breach of the minimum age convention, which is one of the conventions that must be complied with in order to benefit from gsp+? furthermore, can the commission indicate whether it will analyse in detail the content of bolivia's new children's rights bill, taking this analysis into account in bolivia's gsp+ scorecard in order to decide whether or not any serious failure has been identified in its effective implementation of this convention?
mr president, although it is quite clear today that we will not have new colleagues in our mandate, i.e. the process of negotiations on enlargement will obviously last all these 5 years, we still think that we must not stop enlargement, or the negotiation process. in fact, i think we need to intensify it because the countries in south-eastern europe have concrete ambitions. of course, i am thinking primarily of serbia, montenegro and albania, and the talks i had with prime minister vucic and prime minister djukanovic this summer show a strong desire for serbia and montenegro, and of course we know that the same situation exists in albania, especially our colleagues in parliament, to have female mps. of course, that means meeting all the obligations they have, and that's not up for discussion. i believe that the balkans need peace, and peace can be called the european union. so i call on the citizens of these countries to give us our perspective.
mr. president, tonight i want to emancipate the issue of the rights of croats in serbia, croats as a minority who according to the 2011 census number just over 57,000. the reason is the recent donation of the president of serbia, nikolic, of textbooks for croats bunjevce in subotica and primary school students in cirilica. it is a move that represents the continuity of the water supply of the croatian corps and the croatian minority in serbia. we believe that this is not good; this is the policy that has been pursued since the early 1990s, i believe that the european commission should insist in the framework of the accession negotiations - chapters 23 and 24 - that the issue of respecting the bilateral agreement between croatia and serbia of 2004 be one of the constituent elements for serbia's further path towards the european union. we expect to see croats in the representative bodies of serbia and to ensure funds for the language, education, culture of croats in serbia.
mr president, as the newly elected chairman of the european parliament delegation to ukraine, i would like to send a message of support and solidarity to our friends in ukraine who have very clearly chosen europe. this choice of theirs implies our responsibility, responsibility at a time when ukraine is facing aggression from russia, when its territorial integrity is threatened. today's ratification of the association agreement is truly a historic event in the relations between ukraine and the european union and i believe that this new framework, in which we as the european parliament will also play an important role through the parliamentary association committee, will help ukraine's reform agenda in the years ahead. i want the trade part of the agreement to come into force as soon as possible - one neighbouring country cannot dictate the path and development of another. in this respect, i want a ceasefire to be implemented, president poroshenko's peace plan to be respected, and i am sure that croatia's recent experience in peaceful reintegration of the occupied territories can be a very useful move in the coming months of resolving the ukrainian crisis.
mr. president, by voting for this agreement, we are first and foremost supporting something that is necessary, but at the same time we are resisting something that is unacceptable in international relations. this is a key contribution to removing the dilemma about the future of ukraine. it is not and should not be a vital part of some post-soviet space in the making, but a country in the regular process of joining the european union. our support for the association agreement is a signal that the european parliament sees ukraine as a partner capable of implementing reforms. the european union is committed to the principle of subsidiarity and the principle of subsidiarity must be respected. however, the crisis in ukraine and the crisis in relations with russia is also a moment of truth for international organisations, especially those whose purpose is conflict prevention and security. the global security system established in san francisco in 1944 and adapted in helsinki in 1975, primarily designed to prevent conflict between states, needs serious reform. a new deal for the 21st century might have to be negotiated in kiev itself, based on the tragedy that is constantly unfolding.
written. - i voted yes because it's a long-awaited agreement that creates a european perspective for ukraine. the european parliament has also contributed to peace building in ukraine. i would add that i have publicly advocated within the alde group the need to follow best european practices in protecting ethnic and linguistic values in ukraine, as this is also a crucial element for stabilising the situation in ukraine.
written. - as president of the delegation for cooperation with ukraine, i supported the simultaneous ratification of the association agreement in the european parliament and the verkhovna rada. the political symbolism of the association agreement is important in supporting the european path chosen by the ukrainian people. the agreement will provide for the establishment of a european union agency for asylum and will provide for the establishment of a european asylum support office. it is of particular importance to the european parliament that the part of the agreement relating to the parliamentary association committee, the main objective of which will be to support the ukrainian colleagues in upgrading and implementing reforms, is provisionally applied from november. i expect the terms of the implementation of the free trade part to arrive soon.
written. - the european union's association agreement with ukraine is indeed a major and significant step in relations between the two countries and represents a historic moment for the whole of europe. in view of the previous enlargements and the particularly rich experience of the republic of croatia in the long and difficult membership negotiations, i would like to stress that the european union must also pursue a consistent policy in this process and persevere in fulfilling and achieving all the highest european values. the parties shall endeavour to cooperate in the implementation of this agreement and in the implementation of the relevant international instruments. ukraine shall implement the political, socio-economic, legal and institutional reforms necessary for the effective implementation of all the objectives agreed in this agreement. as this agreement places particular emphasis on cooperation in the field of environmental protection, energy security and a commitment to sustainable development, which are at the heart of european values, i support its ratification as i firmly believe that cooperation in these areas is crucial for the well-being of all our citizens. i would also like to stress that in implementing the objectives of this agreement, the european union must continuously take into account the views of russia in order to ensure a prosperous future for citizens on both sides of the border.
written. - i support the european parliament's resolution on the conclusion of the association agreement between the european union and ukraine and consider it to be a correct and necessary step to help ukraine in its current difficult situation. the association agreement builds on the improved eu-ukraine relations and replaces the partnership and cooperation agreement, which has been in force until now. the resolution clearly supports ukraine's european path and its approach to the eu's internal market. the resolution sends a strong signal of support for ukraine's territorial integrity and its growing role in the security of all of europe. ukraine has shown by its actions so far its willingness to move closer to modern europe, and it is up to all of us to make its transition to the modern european society it deserves as smooth and successful as possible. this resolution is a step in that direction. the association agreement provides for a number of measures to strengthen human rights and democratic principles. the difficult current situation in ukraine is well known to us from the recent croatian past, when all external assistance was welcome, so it is necessary to provide assistance in the best possible way. we're sending a message of responsibility, the trade part of the agreement should come into force as soon as possible, and i fully support president poroshenko's peace plan.
written. - i voted in favour because it is a long-awaited agreement that creates a european perspective for ukraine in terms of addressing the issue of third-country nationals, given the current political situation in the european neighbourhood and the desire to strengthen ukraine's ties with the european union.
written. - the european union's association agreement with ukraine is the first such agreement concluded with an eastern partnership country and thus represents a historic step forward for the european union in interstate relations. as the necessary procedure under article 218 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union has been completed and as i consider the free movement of persons to be one of the highest values of the european union, i fully support this report. i would also like to point out that there are still certain restrictions on the employment of workers between member states themselves, including the employment of croatian nationals. in the context of building the european research area, and in line with the objectives of the agreement covering scientific and technological cooperation, we need to pay particular attention to the mobility of researchers and scientists and to facilitating their entry, as scientific cooperation is the foundation of economic development and the backbone of smart, inclusive and sustainable growth.
written. - given that the association decision between the european union and ukraine is divided into two important decisions, the first of which, as the accession treaty, contains no provisions on third-country nationals legally employed in the territory of the other party, this decision, which is adopted in parallel with the first, concerns precisely the procedures for third-country nationals legally employed in the territory of the other party, namely ukraine. the european parliament has also expressed its support for the efforts of the ukrainian authorities to establish a democratic and peaceful society in ukraine. the agreement governs the rights and civil liberties and the relations with third-country nationals and allows them to operate normally within the association agreement. these issues are the subject of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe) which also expresses strong support for ukraine in the process of approximation and eu accession, which i also support.
madam president, we want a more innovative, competitive and faster-growing europe. we want to hire more. we all agree, but what are we doing and what does this council proposal bring? we're slowing down investment in growth drivers. we first wrongly reduced the 2013 pre-financing of projects, and now the council wants to further slow down over 600 projects by reducing the allocation for payments. we're putting off future projects, and we want growth now. it doesn't go together. the budget cannot be a promise. and a common scenario is "promise to a crazy cheerleader". we must see the budget as our obligation to citizens, to scientists, to entrepreneurs, to young people. i agree that we must not blame each other, but let us find a solution that does not give up on our commitment to creating an innovative and creative europe in which our children and our citizens have a future.
mr president, the establishment of a digital single market is definitely the space for such desirable economic growth. we live in the age of information technology. the stronger and better the better in that area. the different rules in internet business are creating obstacles and preventing member states from benefiting from new modern ways of working. by onlineising the business of smes, we will make them more competitive and their services and goods more accessible. it'll make life easier for the citizens. the digital single market will enable them to experience the benefits of living in the european union without having to travel physically. now a question for the european commission, for the commissioner: regulations have been adopted, agendas and action plans written. what's the plan for more decisive and faster execution?
mr. president, we can ask a question at the end of this debate, since i'm the last. what is the digital economy and what is the digital market? we are constantly talking about a future, i would say, not a future market but a present market and i want to thank commissioner barnier who has worked very intensively on this dossier and that it was part of his portfolio and i want to believe that the new commissioner will continue to do so well. however, this project must be completed, it must be completed, i see in mr juncker's proposal that this is one of the main points of work of his commission and i believe that we will all succeed together. however, what i am interested in in this file is roaming and i want to thank and express my joy on behalf of thousands of citizens and voters that on 15 december 2015 we will have equal roaming throughout the european union. i think that concerns many new citizens of the european union.
madam president, climate change and its slowdown is a key political issue today. the negotiations so far have shown that, despite the awareness of the need to reach an agreement on reducing greenhouse gas emissions, there is still no consensus on how commitments should be shared among countries. europe is working hard to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, while encouraging other countries and regions to do the same. but are we doing enough and doing what is needed? my view is that we need to do a better job of preventing climate change, but not by shifting production to other countries or trading emissions as our main mechanism, because that doesn't help the economy or the environment. i am committed to stronger support for low-carbon and green economies that create jobs, protect employee social security and protect the environment. better to prevent than to cure, is an old folk saying. we should listen to the people and take concrete action now so that tomorrow is not too late for us, our children, our planet. because climate change is happening today, it's happening to us, and its negative impact includes the damage caused by more frequent and more powerful natural disasters. for the third time this year, croatian citizens are experiencing terrible and unprecedented floods. many of them were left homeless by the serbian aggression, and now their homes and land have been destroyed by floods. so i call for solidarity with the croatian people, but also for a fair balance of burden sharing between the industrialized countries and those that contribute very little to greenhouse gas emissions, and suffer from them, because they face a lack of capacity and resources to be able to adapt to them.
madam president, i'm a little more optimistic about this, but maybe we could give the title "from copenhagen and cancun to new york and lima to paris". we see for ourselves that the climate is changing faster than expected and the effect is worse than predicted. the un climate change conference in new york should make all participants aware that fighting climate change has far more positive effects than it can at first glance. here, first of all, i'm thinking of the green economy being lightly promoted as one of the main generators of economic growth. reducing greenhouse gas emissions, increasing the share of renewable energy, increasing energy efficiency is the only right way if we want to leave this world to our children. binding targets are needed, not just between the eu countries, but also worldwide. europe is one of the important global players on the world stage that must show by example that fighting climate change can create jobs. i am also talking about mr juncker and his programme, in which one of the very important points is a solid energy union with an advanced climate policy. and he calls for a green economy. i believe we'll have a five-year period to prove it. in any case, this fight should be seen as an opportunity, not a threat, because i think we are witnesses - storms, floods, sea level rise, droughts, etc. have been mentioned, especially in my homeland croatia, this has happened several times in a year, causing immeasurable economic damage - so i appeal to all of us to join hands and protect our planet so that we can hand it over to those from whom we borrowed this country. finally, i would like to thank commissioner hedegaard for her tireless work and i am positive.
madam president, i support the reports submitted by the council representative and the commissioner and welcome the continuation of cooperation within the framework of the un climate conference convened in new york by un secretary-general ban ki moon to ensure that a final agreement on greenhouse gas emission reductions is reached in paris next year. the issue of climate change is a global issue where the european union is not only a leader in achieving emission reduction standards, but also in developing innovative green technologies that should enable the transition to a low-carbon economy. it is evident that we are working towards the 2020 targets. croatia is a good example that has already exceeded the kyoto protocol targets and, by adopting a low-carbon development strategy by 2050, has ensured the continuation of the same policy. i think our support for developing countries of 4.5 billion euros from 2007 to 2013 was very important. at the last summit, we started to work on a framework for the european union's climate and energy policy until 2030 and i believe it is important that we complete it soon. i expect the messages of the new york climate conference to be a good basis for reaching a final international agreement.
answer the question posed by raising the blue card. madam president, what i was talking about, i was talking about croatia adopting a low-carbon development strategy by 2050 and ensuring the continuation of the policy, which is the policy of fulfilling the kyoto protocol. it's been in the works for a few years. what you said is about exploration of the adriatic that has been in the normal process for several years.
member of the commission. - madam president, linda mcavan asked how the eu will act in new york. i have already stressed it, but president barroso will address the plenary, and he will do so as the first speaker in that plenary. that also says something about how the world perceives europe’s role in international climate change. he will also bring messages – not only on our 2030 intentions and what we are planning to do and hopefully adopt by october – but he will also bring messages on financing and other key issues. he will also focus on what will come from the eu budget when it comes to international climate finance. i will, of course, also be there and will be participating in some of the thematic groups, while commissioners cioloş and piebalgs will attend different side events. we will therefore have a strong representation there. furthermore, 19 eu heads of state and government and of course the italian presidency will also be present. i must say that i am confident that the eu’s contribution on that day will help the un secretary-general to make the strongest possible résumé by the end of the day, with a view to pushing forward to lima and from there on to paris. we also have a lot of other things planned on the sidelines of this major event. there is a major economic forum taking place, and the european union has invited our good friends and allies from durban. we will have a meeting of the progressive countries. a lot of things will take place that will, together, hopefully create momentum. mr pargneaux asked about the green climate fund and how it is that we – that is, the commission – cannot pay money through a fund where we are not on the board. as far as i have understood it, it is an established practice, which is also accepted and endorsed by the european parliament, that community money can only be spent through international institutions if we actually have first-hand knowledge of how this money will be spent. that is a guarantee to european taxpayers. that is why, but it definitely does not mean that we will not give a lot of money to international climate finance through the eu community budget, and this will also be made very clear in president barroso’s speech. now, just one comment: i know that mr helmer has gone and i know that, even if he had been here, i would not be able to persuade him about climate change. but there is one thing i simply do not understand: how is it that efforts to reduce europe’s energy dependency be blamed for rising energy prices in europe? it could be that one of the reasons why we have higher energy prices in europe than in other regions is that we have to import around 60% of our energy, meaning that today we are spending around eur 400 billion each year. this is money that we send out of europe to pay for our imported fossil fuels. of those eur 400 billion, eur 140 billion is sent to putin’s russia. that is almost eur 3 billion each week. maybe that could also be an argument for european citizens being interested in knowing where their money is going. finally, thank you very much for the many kind words. i would like to reciprocate them by thanking many of you for the good cooperation over the years. i sincerely do hope that this new parliament will help my successor to keep climate change high on the commissions agenda, as well as on the eu’s agenda as a whole – including on our growth and economic agenda, which is where it really belongs. i really do believe that the world needs a strong european climate policy, and that it has to be very visible in the run-up to paris next year. there will be a lot of work to do, not only for the commission and the council, but also without doubt for this new european parliament. (applause)
president of the council. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, very few words in conclusion. first of all, i would like to thank commissioner hedegaard, also for the way in which he has effectively summed up the european position on this subject and the position we will take as a union to new york next week. it was certainly an open debate. we are encouraged that today's debate also shows a majority consensus - not unanimous, of course, but a majority - of views among the actors of the european union - parliament, the commission and the council. i would like to stress one point that has been raised and which we particularly appreciate: the effort and the call for the effort to raise awareness among all europe's partners worldwide, in the differences we know economic, growth and even pollution levels the effort to involve all partners. the presidency therefore intends to continue this exchange and to cooperate closely with parliament in the preparatory phase of the lima conference in order to achieve the best possible results in view of the decisive paris conference next year, for which we hope for success, and for the success of which the european union will spare no effort.
written. climate change is affecting the daily lives of citizens around the world more than ever. i therefore believe that environmental protection issues must become an integral part of the union's security strategies. achieving a low-carbon society by 2050 is one of the strategic directions, and the road ahead requires even greater commitment and commitment to smart and sustainable growth and competitive markets based on innovation and knowledge. according to the latest eurobarometer survey, the level of environmental awareness among european citizens has increased significantly despite the economic crisis, thus providing a fertile ground for the implementation of sustainable development policies, which are also strongly reflected in the europe 2020 strategy within the european union. while recognising the interdependence of national economies, the fight against climate change creates the necessary synergies of sustainable economic development and meeting the environmental targets that the eu has always been a leader in. the un summit in new york is a call to make a clear 'yes' to stronger implementation of measures to combat climate change and protect the environment. this is just a preview of what we're going to be facing in paris in 2015, when we have to come up with a binding global climate agreement that is acceptable to all parties. the clock is ticking and europe must take the lead in the negotiations and take responsibility.
member of the commission. - madam president, honourable members of parliament, after five years of intensive negotiations, the chief negotiators have finished their work to deliver a comprehensive economic and trade agreement between the eu and canada. the committee on international trade (inta) immediately received the full text, and it will be made public shortly. canada is the first g8 member with whom we have agreed on a comprehensive trade deal. the agreement is crucial for the credibility of our trade agenda, because it confirms that we can do deals – even very good deals – in this case with a developed economy with its own established approach and regulatory framework. hence the challenging times during the negotiations. the agreement is also very valuable in its own right; it creates opportunities for our business. canada offers a sizeable market for european products and services. the operators get the same treatment, which is even better than that received by us competitors. this is an important achievement, sustaining our quest for more jobs and growth in europe when you consider the uncertain economic backdrop on our continent. politically, canada is an important ally. it is also an important destination for european investments, and it also invests massively in the eu, creating jobs and wealth. canada is rich in natural resources and raw materials and is a significant source of know-how. in short, through ceta, both sides will eliminate almost all customs tariffs (with very few exceptions). at the same time, a few very sensitive agricultural products will remain protected. the outcome concerning services and investment market access puts us on an even better footing than the us under nafta. it will also in no way affect the ability of eu governments at all levels to provide and subsidise public services. we have also achieved an unprecedented result on public procurement. under ceta we receive significant access to public procurement markets in canada at all levels of government. on investment, the agreement establishes a system that sets a new standard for investor-to-state dispute settlement procedures. we are well aware of the concerns that exist. this agreement directly addresses all the concerns that have emerged so far. also i want to highlight the result on geographical indications. we have achieved very extensive protection in canada of the designations of europe’s high-quality agricultural products, be they parmigiano reggiano, schwarzwälder schinken, bleu d’auvergne or 132 others which are fully protected. this is one of the parts which most visibly show how ceta can also benefit small and medium-sized operators across europe. the eu-canada trade and investment relationship will not come at the expense of environmental or social and labour standards. we are both aware that we have a responsibility here. we have a higher standard in trade agreements, and it is more than canada has done before. in terms of what happens next, president barroso and the canadian prime minister, mr harper, intend to publicly announce the conclusion of the negotiations at the eu-canada summit in ottawa on 26 september. further to this, both sides will submit this text to their respective legislators for verification and ratification. in the case of the eu this means to the council and parliament. because legal verification and official translations take so long, i would expect signature and formal transmission of the text to parliament to take place well into 2015. coming this far, at a pace which has been punishing for those involved, is an important achievement which the commission is proud of, and i look forward to this legislator’s support for ceta’s contribution to the creation of more jobs and growth in europe.
on behalf of the ecr club. madam president, we have already discussed in this session the negative effects of the cooling of relations with russia. while i'm afraid the latest russian bans on agricultural and food products are not the last we'll see from putin, this example does show clearly how damaging it can be to close a large market for our products and services. but despite the alarming situation in trade relations with russia, the european union has a fantastic opportunity to finally improve its relationship with the world's other great power and tempting market - canada. under this agreement, canada will open its public procurement market to european suppliers for the first time, and the expected increase in trade in goods and services of 23% should lead to a visible reduction in unemployment and an annual gain for the eu of more than eur 10 billion. this is great news for europe, which is in dire need of new partners on the global stage at this moment. i understand the reservations about isds, the legal safeguards, but i don't see them as justified. the isds instrument is also available in the united states for the purpose of the exchange of information between the member states and the commission. to my knowledge, there have been no problems so far which would lead to the conclusion that such an instrument is harmful to the member states. the isds balances the right and need of the state to regulate the market and the rights of investors to protection against possible arbitrariness or discriminatory behaviour of national governments towards foreign investors. the isds does not favour foreign capital over national sovereignty, as those who fear the application of this instrument think, but simply ensures respect for international law. i believe you will agree with me that the role of national government is not to oppose profit, but rather, by ensuring a level playing field in the market, it participates in its creation. the isds instrument provides private investors with a guarantee that national governments will indeed fulfil such a role, making the european market safer and thus more attractive to foreign investment. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
answer the question posed by raising the blue card. colleague, these may be problems, but not so big that we stop this big market with canada. we lost russia, we're gonna lose canada, we haven't established any better markets. so we may stick to our principles, but we'll lose jobs and markets.
member of the commission. - mr president, on behalf of my colleague commissioner borg, i would like to think that the commission shares the general concern regarding the affordability of new medical products and the related risk of inequalities arising in access to care. the commission is committed to helping member states respond to this challenge. this commitment was highlighted in the commission’s communication of april this year on effective and resilient health systems, which, among other things, focused on increasing accessibility to health systems. the communication stressed the need for improved cooperation, ‘increased transparency and better coordination to minimise any unintended effects that current national pricing systems may have in terms of accessibility throughout the eu’. at the health council in june, the french delegation raised the specific issue of the new improved hepatitis c treatments which have recently received marketing authorisation in the european union, expressing concerns in relation to achieving equitable access to these treatments. tomorrow member states’ experts will meet to discuss the new improved hepatitis c treatments. there will be a follow-up meeting with member states’ competent authorities next month to discuss pricing and reimbursement. of course, the discussion on the impact of prices on the affordability of medicines for public payers and patients goes far beyond the specific case of hepatitis c treatments. the commission is therefore looking forward to the debate planned by the italian presidency on therapeutic innovation at next week’s informal council of health ministers. the outcome of this debate will help inform the new commission about the interest of member states in continuing an eu debate on the affordability of innovative health products. as regards support to research and development, the commission is hopeful that the ongoing innovative medicines initiative will help speed up the development of better and safer medicines. eu pharmaceutical legislation contains a number of tools to facilitate early access to medicines for patients with unmet medical needs. in addition, in terms of success in helping the development and the placing on the market of medicines for rare and life-threatening diseases, the commission has already authorised 106 of such innovative treatments. the commission has, however, no competence to regulate the level of prices of medicinal treatments. these are determined by member states individually. thus there can be no price caps imposed by the commission. however, the commission can offer help, for example, by pursuing improved exchanges of information among member states on their pricing policies with a view to minimising negative effects on the accessibility of medicines in the eu. another way in which the commission could assist would be by further exploring the use of the joint procurement mechanism to obtain more advantageous price offers from the pharmaceutical industry.
mr president, with the advancement of medical science, extremely effective and expensive drugs are emerging. when a drug comes on the market that guarantees a 100% cure, i'm sure there's no doctor who wants to choose between the welfare of the patient and the savings in the health budget. if we're talking about the cost of health care, in this case an expensive drug that completely cures hepatitis, i ask the question: how much does it cost society for all the hospitalizations that this man will experience without treatment, all the diagnostics, how much does it cost for all the therapy, the absences from work and of course most importantly how much does it cost human life? it bothers me when billions of euros are spent on bailing out banks, and when it comes to a cure, everyone's worried about the cost. but on the other hand, i'm aware that we have to think responsibly about a sustainable health care system. so one possible solution, when expensive drugs are involved, is to pay pharmaceutical companies from public funds only when a cure is found. furthermore, there is the possibility of shortening the term of a patent because once it expires the price of a drug falls rapidly. after all, i must express my disappointment that medicines and medical devices will be under the commissioner for industry and entrepreneurship in the future commission instead of the commissioner for health. it's a step backwards and unfortunately a signal that patient safety is losing ground to economic calculation.
written. i am pleased that all member states have submitted operational programmes and that all the funds from the youth employment initiative, totalling eur 10 billion at eu level, will be contracted by the end of 2015. this is encouraging in the light of the data we have so far, because in practice implementation does not seem to be successful. it would be good if these funds were also paid by the end of 2015 because young people need urgent support. last year, i visited more than 20 universities and held conferences on the possibilities of using eu funds and union programmes. i have spoken to young people and come across many examples of young people who have: completed a semester in a member state through erasmus, then completed a state-funded further education after graduation, been on a vocational training course with an employer - so they have gone through measures that can now also be funded from the youth employment initiative - and after all that are now unemployed again. the economy is down, there are no new jobs, which is why these measures of additional education and temporary employment are not producing the desired, longer-term results. we need to help young people to get into long-term employment and to allocate more measures and resources to entrepreneurship centres, youth incubators and self-employment.
written. i support the council and commission report and the support they give to young people as a group particularly hard hit by the recession. statistics from july 2014 show that we currently have 5 million unemployed young people under 25 in the eu28. statistically, at eu level, a positive trend in youth employment is evident, as the number of unemployed young people has decreased by 563 000 compared to july last year. that certainly is cause for optimism. however, a detailed look at the data by member state and particularly by region tells us that there are regions that have a very negative youth employment outlook. for the above reason, i support the european youth employment initiative for 2014-2015 and its definition of a threshold of over 30% of the growth of youth unemployment in 2012 in the member states and a threshold of over 25% of youth unemployment at regional nuts 2 level as the basis for entering the aid package. the council's proposal for the european youth initiative calls for a total of €6 billion over the period 2014-2020, of which €3 billion would come from the european budget and another €3 billion from the european social fund. i welcome this strong signal to young people, but also the european parliament's resolution of july this year and i hope for the introduction of minimum standards for traineeships and for adequate remuneration for youth work.
written. i have repeatedly welcomed the decision of the european council on the youth employment initiative, which is aimed at young people living in regions with an unemployment rate of over 25%, unfortunately including croatia. the harsh reality is that 2014 is coming to an end, many eu member states, as well as croatia, are not withdrawing available funds, and unemployment is not decreasing. it is unacceptable that those least responsible for the economic crisis should pay the most, and that is precisely the young. the youth guarantee is a good thing, but it should not be the only instrument for employment, but should be complemented by good macroeconomic policies and an additional boost to youth employment. we need reforms, we need an efficient and competitive europe, and that means new jobs. how can we justify employment policies when 5.2 young people in the union - what we can freely call the 29th eu member state - are not working? i think the education and competence of young people is not in question, and the real problem is that we don't have enough strong and competitive economies. the policies have been voted and that is why i am now appealing to the member states to mobilise and activate, and here i regret to mention croatia, which is at the top of the youth unemployment rate, and at the same time has not launched the youth guarantee instrument.
written. - as the commission is using technical assistance to support member states and improve the use of the european globalisation adjustment fund, thereby speeding up the transfer of financial assistance to displaced workers, and as the cost of technical assistance in 2014 was reduced compared to the previous year, i supported the report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for technical assistance. the european globalisation adjustment fund was established to provide additional assistance to workers made redundant and self-employed persons whose activities have ceased as a result of globalisation. this report seeks to provide eur 330 000 for the preparation, monitoring and exchange of information, knowledge base building, administrative and technical support, which is of the utmost importance for a faster and better implementation of the fund.
the european parliament, in its resolution, endorses the measures proposed by the commission to be financed by the european globalisation adjustment fund, which are a necessary tool for making the best and simplest use of the funds for helping member states. parliament and supports the commission in its work to standardise procedures for simpler notification, faster processing of notifications and better reporting in order to reduce the administrative burden on member states. the importance of raising public awareness of the role of the egf is also underlined. the resolution calls on the member states to draw on and exchange the positive experience of those countries, regional and local authorities, which have ready assistance programmes for situations falling under the intervention of the egf. the decision to extend the criteria to seek additional assistance to countries and regions with low population density is welcomed, although this can still be worked on. the resolution is particularly significant in that it refers to the extension of the offer of assistance to self-employed persons, but also to persons not in employment or in education or training, under 25 years of age or if a member state decides to set the threshold at 30 years. this is a significant measure in the fight against the growing youth unemployment. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
written. - i supported the report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund to help recruit workers made redundant by nutriart s.a. and other associated companies and self-employed persons in greece. the european globalisation adjustment fund was established to provide additional support to workers declared redundant as a result of the global financial and economic crisis in order to assist them with their reintegration into the labour market. this report seeks to mobilise eur 6 096 000 for job counselling, job search assistance, education and training and financial support during the job search period, all with a view to re-entering the labour market and speeding up greece's exit from the crisis.
written. - by this resolution, parliament takes into account that the surplus of employees in nutriart s.a. and its 25 suppliers and downstream producers, as well as the 24 self-employed persons whose business has been suspended and who are directly dependent on the business of nutriart s.a., are the consequences of the global financial crisis, which is particularly felt in greece, where the unemployment rate is at a record high. the commission notes that the greek authorities have not provided any evidence that the bank of greece has been able to obtain a loan from the state. these are circumstances which are present in a significant number of member states. parliament welcomes the efforts of the greek authorities in preparing and providing assistance to the unemployed through this programme, and in particular the fact that the individual access to assistance co-financed by the egf will be extended from 508 persons to a further 505 persons under 30 years of age who are unemployed or not in education or training. it's a direct way to help the young and the unemployed. the allocation of a maximum available amount of eur 15000 to 150 selected workers to start their business is hereby approved. parliament stressed the importance of the possibility of recognising the skills acquired during working life when applying for a job. in addition, the gender equality policy and the principle of non-discrimination in the application of the provisions of the egf are welcomed. the case in point illustrates how egf assistance is possible for a number of cases.
written. - due to the structural changes occurring as a result of the increasing trend of globalisation, i supported the report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund with the aim of providing a financial contribution to romania for the redundancies in the trading company mechel camptia turzii sa. the european globalisation adjustment fund was established to provide additional support to workers declared redundant as a result of structural changes in world trade patterns caused by globalisation and to assist them with their integration into the labour market. this report seeks to mobilise eur 3 571 150 for vocational guidance and counselling, education and assistance in setting up a business.
written. - i voted in favour of a resolution in which the european union set up legislative and budgetary instruments to provide support for workers who have been made redundant or declared surplus as a result of the financial and economic crisis. i agree with the commission that the conditions of the egf regulation are fulfilled and that romania is therefore entitled to a financial contribution under that regulation. the commission also found that the union industry had suffered material injury during the period considered. the commission notes that the câmpia turzii is a small steel producer with a large number of employees and a large number of employees. therefore, i support the fact that the romanian national employment agency, as well as other local and regional authorities, will be associated with the cooperative that will be established to provide support to the dismissed workers. the egf is intended to cover the financing of the purchase of buildings, the purchase of equipment and the purchase of equipment for the construction of buildings.
written. - due to the global economic and financial crisis, i supported the report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund to assist the aragon region on the request submitted by spain. the european globalisation adjustment fund was established with the aim of providing support to workers declared redundant as a result of the global financial and economic crisis in order to assist them with their reintegration into the labour market. this report allocates eur 960,000 for counselling, job search assistance, education and training and support for redundant workers, all with a view to re-employment.
written. - i voted in favour of a resolution in which the european union set up legislative and budgetary instruments to provide additional support to workers who have been made redundant or declared surplus as a result of the global financial and economic crisis. i agree with the commission that the conditions of the egf regulation are fulfilled and that spain is therefore entitled to a financial contribution under that regulation. the spanish authorities argue that the main factor in the increase in redundancies is the significant decrease in the consumption of food and drink, above all food not consumed at home, as a result of negative economic developments, the increase in tax revenues, primarily vat, and the reduction in wages. the additional redundancies of 904 people will have a negative impact on unemployment in aragon, where the rate rose sharply from 4,2% in december 2007 to 18,4% in december 2013. therefore, i would like to stress the importance of increasing the employability of all workers through tailored training programmes and by recognising the skills and abilities acquired by the worker during his career. measures to assist workers, such as guidance, counselling and job searching, and training and retraining, are expected to be adapted not only to their needs but also to the actual business environment.
written. - in view of the world economic crisis and the change in bank policy which has tightened the conditions for granting mortgage loans and credits and significantly reduced their supply, i supported the report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund to assist the dutch regions of gelderland and overijssel on the application submitted by the netherlands. the european globalisation adjustment fund was established to provide additional assistance to workers made redundant and self-employed persons whose activities have ceased as a result of globalisation. this report seeks to provide eur 1 625 781 to help displaced workers to find work and further education.
written. - i support the resolution in which the european union has established legislative and budgetary instruments to provide additional support to workers who have been made redundant or declared surplus as a result of the global financial and economic crisis. i agree with the commission that the conditions of the egf regulation are fulfilled and that the netherlands is therefore entitled to a financial contribution under that regulation. the redundancies in 89 nace-compliant companies, concerning the construction of buildings in the neighbouring dutch regions of gelderland and overijssel, are linked to the financial and economic crisis. the commission notes that the bank's lending to the private sector has been limited to the minimum necessary to ensure that the bank's lending to the public sector is not distorted. government austerity measures to reduce the national debt and budget deficit have reduced public spending and caused property prices and values to fall, making it difficult to buy and sell houses. the unemployment rate in these two provinces accounts for 39% of the total number of over-employed in 2012. i consider the implementation that the dutch authorities have decided to launch to be a good step in the fight against unemployment. it refers to helping workers find jobs, educational measures, and other factors that would alleviate the plight of those who are unexpectedly unemployed.
written. - in view of the major structural changes in world trade flows that are occurring as a result of increasing globalisation, i supported the report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund to assist the region of castilla y leon on the request submitted by spain. the european globalisation adjustment fund was created to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of structural changes brought about by globalisation. this report allocates eur 700 000 to help redundant workers to facilitate their reintegration through counselling, education and entrepreneurship.
written. - i support the resolution by which the european parliament approves the mobilization of funds to help the dismissed workers in spain, a country with a high unemployment rate. the commission notes that the restructuring plan for the three companies in the nuts ii region of castilla y leon, which is based on the restructuring plan for the wood processing sector, is based on the restructuring plan for the wood processing sector. the commission notes that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have taken the necessary measures to ensure that the aid is compatible with the internal market. in the resolution, parliament reiterates the importance of improving employment opportunities through tailored training programmes and the recognition of skills and knowledge acquired during working life, in addition to direct financial assistance. the commission has also requested the european parliament and the council to provide the european parliament with the information it needs to assess the impact of the proposed measures on the environment and to provide it with the information it needs to assess the impact of the proposed measures on the environment. it is stressed, however, that the egf support measures do not serve short-term objectives but are only used to finance active labour market measures leading to permanent, long-term employment.
president of the council. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the recent ebola outbreak in west africa is the most important of its kind. this is a public health emergency of major international concern. the ebola outbreak is having an unprecedented public health and humanitarian impact on the affected countries and the entire region. the council is gravely concerned about the consequences for the socioeconomic and security situation of the west african countries affected. at the same time, we would remind you that according to the european centre for disease prevention and control, the risk of being infected by the ebola virus for residents of the european union and those travelling to the affected countries is low, provided that the recommended precautions are followed. the european union has taken a leading role within the international community in responding to the epidemic. at their meeting on 15 august, the foreign ministers called for a careful follow-up and a coordinated international response. the extraordinary european council of 30 august 2014 also stressed the importance of providing coordinated international support as quickly and effectively as possible. he called for greater coordination at eu level and called on the council to adopt a comprehensive eu response framework to deal with the situation. what was our follow-up in this case? as regards humanitarian aid, the european union and its member states have responded to the ebola crisis from the outset. this includes financial support to health and humanitarian actors and un organisations. we pay tribute to the extraordinary commitment of these field workers, commitment which some of them paid with their lives. in close coordination with the commission, member states have regularly carried out joint analyses and assessments of humanitarian assistance needs. the civil protection mechanism was activated at the request of who and the un office for the coordination of humanitarian affairs. the emergency response coordination centre, which is operational 24/7, contributes to the coordination of assistance. since the crisis has worsened, member states have stepped up their support and expressed their readiness to provide further assistance and to mobilise experts and medical staff. let me give you a few examples. the uk has started setting up a treatment centre near freetown, sierra leone, with the first phase expected to be operational within eight weeks. austria and france have offered in-kind assistance in the form of medical equipment. germany has taken in a who staff member who contracted the virus. italy has supported the world health organisation since the start of the crisis, making an initial contribution of eur 200 000 to the who's activities in guinea in april. a further eur 240 000 has recently been allocated. in addition, we have just approved a total of eur 1.2 million for the prevention and treatment of the virus. the council is currently working on a framework for the european union's overall response to the crisis. this framework will also address the coordination of air transport, which currently represents a critical gap and limits access for medical and humanitarian personnel and resources. the presidency is well aware of the need for more to be done. the eu must help rebuild health systems that have collapsed as a result of the ebola crisis. if we do not, there is a real risk that the humanitarian crisis caused by the ebola epidemic will spread to other countries on the african continent. the presidency, in conjunction with the commission and the eeas, will help coordinate the collective response of the european union in partnership with the who and the un. on the public health front, the eu response framework is in place and sufficient to protect human health in the union. eu member states have national preparedness plans to respond to possible health threats. at european level, member states, in cooperation with the commission, coordinate their responses to serious cross-border threats to health within the health security committee. a network of national competent authorities, the commission and the european centre for disease prevention and control, managed and coordinated by the ecdc, are responsible for the epidemiological surveillance of communicable diseases and related special health problems. a high-level meeting was held in brussels on 15 september to coordinate further steps in the eu's response to the ebola outbreak in west africa. in addition to the relevant commissioners and several ministers of health and development of the member states, the high-level coordinator of the un system for the ebola virus disease response, as well as representatives of the world health organisation and the ngo doctors without borders, attended the meeting. the meeting paved the way for greater coordination of the international effort needed to combat the epidemic. the european union's health ministers will discuss the issue at the informal ministerial meeting in milan on 22 and 23 september, with particular reference to the following actions: medium and long-term follow-up; information for travellers and citizens; medical evacuation; the need to share resources in complex emergencies; actions to improve the availability of ebola treatments and vaccines; the need for further support to affected countries, who and relevant non-governmental organisations, and the need for the eu to support the strengthening of global leadership and operational coordination of the who and un in the crisis response. president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i thought it important to speak about the commitment of the presidency and the council to coordinate the eu's efforts to help the affected countries and international organisations in the fight against this serious epidemic.
member of the commission. - mr president, we have heard a very comprehensive presentation from the council. i would like to contribute to the discussion by elaborating further on three points: first, the character of this epidemic; second, what we are doing at the commission to advance a coordinated response; and finally a few words about the approach we are taking to protect our own population, the citizens of europe. on the epidemic itself: it is unprecedented in two ways. firstly, this is a pandemic which is taking place in countries that had very weak health systems to begin with. in the past, if pandemics occurred they were mostly in middle-income or high-income countries where the health systems could be mobilised to respond. this is not the case now. secondly, at no time before has an ebola epidemic lasted so long, and it is not yet contained. so we are in a very unusual and very dramatic situation. as was mentioned, the un senior coordinator for the fight against ebola, dr david nabarro, who is extremely competent, told us that not only do we have 4 963 cases and 2 453 deaths today (that is actually as of yesterday) but that the most important and troubling fact is that figures for the number of cases are nearly doubling every three weeks. if we do not act decisively now, there are three major risks stemming from this. one is that in the three countries which are the most affected, guinea, liberia and sierra leone, the spread would be such that containing it would become extremely difficult. it is already difficult but it would be extremely difficult. secondly, we may not be able to protect other countries in the region from the spread of the epidemic. the worry then, of course, is that it may go further. and the third and most dangerous risk, i believe, is that the longer we fail to get on top of the epidemic the greater is the risk that the virus may mutate. what its impact would then be is hard to predict but it could be quite dramatic. we are not talking anymore just about a health emergency in the three countries; we are talking about an impact on their economies and their societies that is quite dramatic. growth rates have dropped significantly. we are worried about the political and security implications, and let us remember that these are countries that experienced civil wars in the 1990s and 2000s. they have just emerged from this, rebuilding their societies, and now they are being tremendously badly hit. we talk about fighting ebola on the front lines but this is not your usual humanitarian emergency where we can mobilise humanitarian staff, send them into the field and then they deal with the problem. this epidemic requires highly competent professionals in the health field who know how to deal with it. we are very constrained in terms of personnel, equipment and transport. going on to my second point: what are we in europe doing in terms of being on the front line in fighting ebola? of course we are mobilising money. i am proud to say that the commission, with eur 150 million, is leading in the financial response to this crisis. we have just received a figure from the united nations revised upwards: close to a billion dollars is now necessary, but we are putting our funding together and we will do more. on monday our member states had pledged up to eur 78 million. many of them, however, are working on raising their financial contributions so we can be more and more effective. much more important than money is mobilising assistance in kind and deploying teams. we have laboratories in the affected countries and, as we have heard, our member states are providing new hospitals and new treatment centres to provide beds. but let me tell you what the reaction of médecins sans frontières (msf) was to our numbers, which are in the high hundreds. they said high hundreds is good, but what we need is in the thousands if we want to stop the epidemic, because they are still sending people who are coming to treatment centres back to their communities, with all the risks that this creates. we are very focused on the critical issue of medical evacuation. for many health workers, one concern about going to the affected countries is ‘what would i do if i am impacted, would there be any help?’ we are working in europe to create a medical evacuation capacity so that that concern, and the health of medical workers, are addressed. last but not least, we understand how critical it is to invest in research, in vaccines and in treatment, and also to build a wall against any future ebola outbreaks. there was a discussion here in parliament on this topic with tonio borg in early september in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety. the third point is: what do we do about the safety of our own citizens? here we have received the message very loud and clear, and i want to split this into two points. one, we are saying let us stop the virus, isolate it and fight it back, but let us not isolate the countries. i want to pay tribute to brussels airlines and to air france, european companies that continue to fly back and forth to the region – absolutely essential. secondly, we have taken measures collectively to make sure that this is not going to bring the virus into europe. i can stand here in front of you and say we are doing this. a huge amount of work is going on at the moment to make sure that our laboratory system is ready to carry out testing in all member states and that those with fewer capabilities can count on the support of others; that we have suitable treatment facilities; that we coordinate our preventive measures; and also that we communicate with one voice so that we do not confuse people. i want to end by saying that i was very encouraged at the meeting on monday to see europe coming together as one. i heard a member state that would not normally say such a thing asking ‘please, coordinate usʼ. we want to act together and together we will act.
on behalf of the ppe club. mr. president, as we heard from the commissioner, the virus is spreading at a truly exponential rate, and at that rate, according to the world health organization, we could have as many as 20,000 cases by the end of the year. so ladies and gentlemen, what we need today is a serious and responsible debate, not sensationalism or unnecessary intimidation of our citizens. but we must say, loud and clear, that the international community has underestimated the danger of the ebola epidemic. we must make it clear from here that the ebola crisis is not just a west african problem, but a global threat that requires a decisive response from the european union. i welcome the efforts of the member states and what the european commission has done with about 150 million euros, these are good moves, but it is clear that this is not enough. our partner organizations on the ground are pointing out the fact that in addition to money, we need more than organizational capacity to isolate and treat patients. it includes everything that you said, commissioner, including human resources and logistics and technological capacity, medical equipment. in west africa, we have a really big shortage of qualified personnel, adequate training for health workers, and what may be sorely needed, we have no broader information for the local population. we therefore call on the european commission to continue its efforts. we also heard that we're having a meeting of health ministers in milan. we are also asking them to draw up an urgent action plan for the member states, coordinated by the european commission, and of course under the auspices of the united nations. the european union must show leadership on this issue, not only out of solidarity with west africa, but also for its own security, for the security of our citizens. there is no time, a decisive response from the european union is needed now.
ladies and gentlemen, first of all, i would like to thank all those people who are selflessly on the ground today, in countries where we have a pandemic today, really doing good for those who are infected and preventing further spread of the disease. but what we have to admit to ourselves is that this pandemic has caught us by surprise, and as it has caught us by surprise, we may also be seeing problems in coordinating the fight against this pandemic. and this is how on our continent, in europe, in the european union itself, i would say with other partners in the international community outside the european union, because this is a question of the whole world, it's not just a question of europe or just a question of west africa. so i am in favour of really investing as much as possible in research and really trying to prevent it as soon as possible, and i support everything that the commissioner has said and i believe that the commission really has the best intentions.
mr. president, first of all, i would like to extend my condolences to the family of david haines, his wife and daughter who are our fellow citizens in croatia. the video of his brutal execution is yet another proof of isis's criminal policy. this criminal organization is now increasingly referred to simply as the islamic state, indicating that it does not want to be limited to iraq and syria but that it dreams of establishing a caliphate in a wider area that includes some of the member states of the european union. perhaps one of the best answers to this madness was given by the mufti of the islamic community in croatia aziz efendija hasanović who said that isis is a mockery and a disgrace to the entire islamic world. mufti hasanović advocated tolerance, dialogue and cooperation between christians and muslims. but unfortunately, these calls have no resonance in those areas of iraq and syria where christians are persecuted just for being christians. the persecution of christians, mr. president, sometimes seems to be indifferent to some in europe. indifferent to the thousands of people who are labeled as christians, as nazarenes have this particular mark that you see here and that's why they are also the target of isis, that's why they are put in front of the choice to convert to islam or they will lose their lives. what are we doing about it in the european parliament? today, we had to discuss the situation in iraq and syria, but with a special focus on the persecution of christians. why are we ashamed of that? of course we must speak of all minorities, of every endangered human being, but why are we ashamed to mention the name of christians in a debate or in a resolution? are we ashamed of the christians in iraq and syria? whether you are a christian or not, whether you are a believer or not, if you are on the side of man, if you are on the side of humanity today you must be on the side of the christians in iraq and syria.
mr. president, i believe we are all shocked by the atrocities of isis whose scale is increasing day by day. but sadly, few realize that our countries are complicit in this crime. i would not like to take this opportunity to go into the previous international interventions in this area that left behind the situation they left behind, but i would like to emphasize and draw your attention to the fact that our countries have done too little to keep muslims living in the european union away from this bloodshed. the media are reporting the death of a 15-year-old austrian citizen of bosnian origin who was taken from austria to syria without her parents' knowledge. how is it possible that minors on our soil are being enlisted en masse for the purpose of international terrorism and are being sent to the other side of the world without their parents' knowledge or accompaniment? and what are our states doing to stop it? these are the questions we need to ask ourselves, and more importantly, we need to act urgently to end this horror.
thank you, vice-president rehn, honourable members of the italian presidency, mr della vedova, honourable mr vimont, today's debate on this extremely serious political and security crisis in the middle east, which puts at the heart of our deliberations and our resolutions the consequences of a terrorist organisation, namely the islamic state, iraq and syria, which, by its unprecedented actions and its atrocities against minorities, particularly the persecution of christians, and its overall destabilisation of the world, has put us, the european union, in a position to react firmly and forcefully. i therefore join in the great condemnation of all our colleagues for all that we have witnessed in the past few months, and i believe it is incumbent on us to support the conclusions of yesterday's conference in paris, which made it quite clear that the solution to this problem cannot be found by political and diplomatic means alone. we have seen the brutal murder of two american journalists, and unfortunately we have also seen the murder of david haines, a british humanitarian, and also a man who started his family in croatia, and to his family i extend my condolences here. these are all activities that are highly unacceptable and that require a great deal of engagement and coordinated engagement by the international community, and in doing so i believe that the united nations, in particular the security council, must also respond and authorize activities in ireland and syria. so it's up to us in the weeks ahead to make the maximum effort to essentially eliminate the global threat of isis. the mistakes that were made in iraq itself, and also the influence of some other countries on the former government in iraq, are partly responsible for the radicalization of the sunnis in iraq, and in that regard, there are great expectations from the new government that it must be much more inclusive and in a much more cautious way to address this issue.
mr. president, i would like to point out that just as the nazis marked the homes of jews in world war ii, and the rebelling serbs marked the homes of croats in the homeland war, so isis is marking the homes of christians in iraq and syria, the oldest countries of christendom. christians are being driven from their homes and subjected to genocide. christian girls are sold in the market for a hundred dollars. sexual violence, the rape and recruitment of children, kidnapping, the execution of christians, forced conversion to islam have become the signature of isis. after surviving for 2,000 years, iraqi christians are now forced into exile as the islamic state, a spin-off of al-qaeda, has taken control of the territory. the jihadists don't just take on christians. they're also taking out moderate muslims. so it's not enough for the international community to say that things are bad. we need to take concrete action. isis is the most vicious terrorist group in human history and they are clearly non-negotiable. if we do nothing, our hands will be stained with the blood of christians in iraq and syria. i call for action.
written. in the short term, terrorist financing should be blocked and the arrival of foreign fighters, and especially their return from where they came, stopped. those who buy oil from terrorists are complicit in the murder of david haines and other hostages. in the long run, what is needed is to create a development strategy for iraq and the surrounding countries. military victory over dictators is never enough in itself because it's easier to remove the top of a regime than the political, economic and social circumstances in which it was maintained. there is an almost uninterrupted series of crises and conflicts from ukraine through the middle east to mali. so i'm advocating an upgrade of the existing global safety system that was created in the middle of the last century, but it's clearly not effective in stopping these kinds of accidents in dysfunctional countries in the early 21st century. for example, analysts note that there are as many as five different wars going on in syria alone right now. extremist activity is already being felt in libya with a tendency to spread terror all over north africa from where we can expect even more desperate people to flee to europe and drown at sea.
mr. president, i was in morocco when the arab spring began with the events in cairo and i was warned by my interlocutors in morocco that of course it was good, but that the question was how it would end. and that's kind of how it goes, we often know what we don't want, we know what we want, but we often don't know how to do it. today we have total chaos in libya and we need to be absolutely clear about this and we have no solution for libya. malta, italy, all of europe has big problems. first of all we need to show solidarity and i am absolutely in favour of solidarity, but we need a new kind of policy, like the union for the mediterranean was a good idea, but it didn't work, it practically doesn't exist today and we need to talk about it, we need a proactive policy for the southern mediterranean because if not, everything will be reflected back to southern europe and then of course to the whole of europe. and i want to end by expressing my deepest sympathy and solidarity with all the victims and the families of the victims.
mr. president, the recent escalation of violence in the gaza strip began as an act of revenge for civilian casualties, and the subsequent flare-up of the conflict has claimed many more innocent lives. i believe therefore that our priority must be the protection of civilians who are the target of indiscriminate and disproportionate armed action by both sides in this conflict. hamas' military doctrine includes hiding behind civilian populations and deliberately exposing them to israeli counter-strikes. such tactics are anti-civilization, but unfortunately they are proving successful when it comes to western sympathy for the palestinian cause, so i don't expect the use of civilians for propaganda purposes to stop anytime soon. but that doesn't absolve the israeli government, which also has the luxury of neglecting the safety of civilians in this conflict. there is no justification for killing civilians, an innocent victim is an innocent victim and it doesn't matter which side he's on. for years, we've been hearing and talking about the israeli-palestinian conflict, and we've never moved toward a solution. it's time to put lives, especially children's lives, above politics.
madam vice-president, i welcome commissioner mimic, with whom we are now debating in a different context after the one on the various sides of the european parliament election campaign, but now we are on the same side of protecting human rights in the world and, above all, of ensuring that human rights are respected within the member states of the european union. i also appreciate the efforts and work of the special representative for human rights, mr lambrinidis, over the last two years in the protection of human rights, their universality, multilateral cooperation, in particular with the council of europe, here in strasbourg, whose main activity is human rights and their protection, and with the united nations. it seems to me that human rights and their protection must be a permanent and mandatory, continuous part of all the activities of the european union's foreign policy, that we must take this into account in all instruments, and we have provided sufficient funds for their protection for the next seven years. i also believe that we must make a special effort to protect the christians in iraq and syria.
madam president, i take this report positively, i take it optimistically and i think it is well put, because europe must definitely be the main promoter of human rights in the world. objectively, apart from our continent, we can say in a way, there is no one else who is really up to the end sincerely, and in the way that we do, fighting for human rights everywhere in the world. however, there is another fact that needs to be said. the human rights situation in the world has probably never been worse. we have really nasty situations, terrible situations, but i wouldn't just talk about the most difficult situations. we'll also talk about those situations that are so-called minor human rights violations, but for me there are no major or minor human rights violations. there is a human rights violation. and so i would just like to remind those who are the most vocal in this parliament that i have won elections a dozen times with the slogan: diversity is our wealth, tolerance is our strength. i hope others will do the same.
written. - i voted for it because i believe that ukraine deserves a european perspective. i tabled an amendment in which i demanded that the process of decentralization or devolution of ukraine incorporate the need for european best practice in protecting ethnic and linguistic differences. unfortunately, my amendment was not accepted.
written. - i support the european parliament resolution on the situation in ukraine and the state of eu-ukraine relations. the resolution also calls on the eu to take all necessary measures to ensure that the peace process in the region is not compromised. it is important to condemn the role of the russian federation in this conflict, from the use of regular russian forces in combat, to the arming of illegal paramilitary units as well as the denial of its role in all of this. the european parliament hereby reaffirms its commitment to the preservation of ukraine's territorial integrity, inviolability of borders and autonomy, as well as to ukraine's choice of the european path. it should be emphasized that such artificial creations as the donetsk republic or the illegal secession of crimea are not and will not be recognized by the international community. i welcome the simultaneous signing of the association agreement in the european and ukrainian parliaments, which represents a strong will on both sides to successfully implement the provisions of the agreement. we also strongly advocate further and even stronger sanctions against russia for violations of international law in the matter of ukraine, with increased monitoring of their implementation. we call on the commission to monitor closely the impact of russian counter-sanctions on eu markets, so that appropriate measures can be taken, in particular on agriculture and fisheries issues. this resolution is of great importance for the stability and security of europe as a whole.
written. - i voted for the resolution because it's the only way for the european parliament to get involved in the fight against ebola because it was agreed to put in place better coordination of the fight against ebola and to invest more money in research for a cure. it is also important that we show our support for all those who unselfishly help those affected by ebola.
written. - i support the report of the council and the commission, as well as the european union's response to the ebola outbreak in west africa. the death toll has passed 2100 and there are already about 4000 potential cases. the situation is all the more alarming because there is no clinical treatment or proven vaccine that works, which is why the mortality rate is 25-90%. following this, i call for the close monitoring of the situation by the emergency response coordination centre (ercc), the health authorities of the member states, the european centre for disease prevention and control (ecdc), the world health organisation (who) and all other relevant international institutions. i welcome the commission's willingness to commit eur 156 million to date to fight the epidemic, of which eur 5 million has been directed to the newly established african union (au) mission 'ebola support west africa'. unfortunately, even these significant resources have not brought the epidemic under control, which is certainly a consequence of the lack of basic medical and security infrastructure that prevents health care and migration control in the affected, often border areas. for these reasons, i consider the deployment of expert personnel and the development of primary medical infrastructure in the west african countries a priority. it is our moral responsibility to continue to provide support to the affected countries and at the same time to continue to closely monitor the course of an epidemic that is a serious threat to our citizens, but also a problem that requires long-term international cooperation and humanitarian support.
written. - faced with an ebola epidemic of unprecedented scale, the european union must do everything in its power to contain further spread in cooperation with the world health organisation (who). the obligation of each member state is to introduce, in addition to adequate humanitarian assistance, maximum protection and prevention measures, in particular with regard to the screening of travellers. i hereby welcome the decision of the european commission to provide €140 million in development assistance to the countries of west africa currently affected by the ebola virus, while stressing the importance of an efficient allocation of funds. i also believe that efforts should be made to find means to effectively prevent and control the ebola virus. i take this opportunity to commend the courage and dedication of the relief workers on the ground who put their lives on the line every day to help others. i am pleased that the european union is actively monitoring developments in the affected countries through its experts on the ground, carrying out assessments and coordinating with other health organisations.
written. - i am voting for a resolution whereby the european union as a whole, together with un coordinators, is investing its efforts to provide aid to ebola patients in guinea, sierra leone and liberia. the virus is spreading rapidly, and unless a quick and effective response is taken to stop it, it is estimated that up to 20,000 people could be infected by the end of the year. unfortunately, the threat of ebola has been underestimated by international organisations and a decisive response from the european union is needed. i want to stress how critical it is to send as much humanitarian aid as possible as the medical systems in the infected countries collapse. mobile hospitals and laboratories, medical equipment and, most importantly, doctors, which are sorely lacking, must be provided. i would also like to express my sincere gratitude to the doctors who are now on the ground and who are making every effort to help the sick, despite the inadequate conditions in which they work. i believe that more money should be invested in scientific and medical research to find a vaccine against the ebola virus. this is not just a west african problem, but a european and a world problem. so it's important to support the affected countries, to show them that we're with them and that we're going to help them get through this.
madam president, i have supported this resolution by my signature and vote, because in the last few months we have witnessed serious human rights violations and bloodshed in the middle east. we know that in iraq alone, the persecution of innocent people, especially the christian minority, is appalling and brutal. some 1.2 million people have been displaced, and 1.5 million people are in need of urgent humanitarian assistance. forced conversion to islam or the expulsion of those lucky ones who are not killed is a daily occurrence. as the chaldean patriarch of iraq, louis sako, pointed out, this kind of islam would be a disgrace to all orthodox muslims. what more do we need to add to this to do everything we can to end this kind of war suffering in iraq, syria and the wider middle east. faced with such torture, it becomes crystal clear once again that freedom of belief, freedom of thought and conscience are inseparable from man, and any deprivation of these rights is a violation of basic human rights. any regime, any ideology that takes away that right, even suppresses it by force, is doomed.
written. - i voted yes because basic human rights are being threatened in iraq and syria. the ruthless war being waged in these areas is a great danger to all ethnic and religious minorities and this is an additional motive for my support for this resolution.
written. - the current situation in iraq and syria is a serious case of the threat to basic human rights and to the lives of many people, as well as to the territorial integrity of these countries. i strongly condemn the terrorist acts by isis and other militant groups against the iraqi and syrian populations, and in particular the persecution of religious minorities. such radical ideology has particularly targeted religious minorities, especially indigenous christians, but also moderate muslims, as well as other minority groups such as yazidis. all of them are threatened with total persecution or extinction. i call for a coalition of countries united in the fight against isis, for decisive action to protect human rights, to prevent the persecution and killing of the population and i call on the international community to monitor the activities of these residents in the event of their return from the security aspect of european countries. i believe that in the fight against terrorism, decisive joint action by international and regional organisations is needed to successfully prevent, disrupt and stop terrorism.
written. - i voted for the resolution because libya is in chaos and with this resolution the european parliament has taken a clear position on the situation in libya and called for a solution.
written. - as a co-signer of the resolution on behalf of the epp club, i supported the european parliament resolution on the situation in libya as it calls on the parties in libya to reach an agreement on an immediate ceasefire, cessation of hostilities and inclusion in a comprehensive national dialogue. the current situation is not only threatening libya but also the neighbouring countries and european countries because of the migrants, weapons and ammunition that are in the hands of terrorists. it is necessary to engage in political dialogue and not to take actions that could exacerbate existing divisions and undermine the democratic transition. i would like to underline the eu's commitment to libya's transition and the importance of continued eu involvement in the building of a democratic libya. i also welcome the efforts of the united nations support mission in libya (unsmil) and hope that this mission will contribute to the development of the national dialogue. in addition to these efforts, i welcome the extension of existing international sanctions against libya through un security council resolution 2174. in order to ensure the security of the region, it is important to involve all actors in order to stabilise the libyan authorities and institutions and to establish the rule of law. as the number of civilian casualties and human rights violations continues to rise, i hereby call on the libyan parties to cease fire and engage in a comprehensive national dialogue to avoid further casualties and achieve peace.
written. - i voted for the resolution because i support peace in the middle east. the european union is a key player in the peace process, and the european union's position should be a credible mediator.
written. - as a co-signer of the resolution on behalf of the epp group, i supported the european parliament's resolution on israel and palestine after the gaza war and the role of the eu. the war in gaza resulted in over 2,000 deaths on both sides and extensive material damage to civilian facilities and infrastructure. in view of the appalling loss of life, i welcome the ceasefire of 26 august and hope that this agreement will be the basis for progress in the peace negotiations to be held in cairo at the end of september with the support of egypt. i support the efforts of the security council and the un to reach a consensus and a resolution that would provide an international framework for the normalisation of the situation in the gaza strip. i believe that a lasting ceasefire and normalization of the situation is the basis for the consolidation of the palestinian authority as well as the continuation of the reconstruction of the belt and the further inflow of humanitarian aid. i would like to stress the importance of the eu bam rafah and eupol copps missions, but also call for a stronger eu presence and role, in particular with regard to the flow of continued humanitarian assistance and the reconstruction of destroyed infrastructure and civilian facilities. i call for the resumption of dialogue, the normalisation of relations and the demilitarisation of the gaza strip and hope that the foundations for long-term security and peace have been laid.
mr president, croatia and our neighbouring countries, bosnia and herzegovina and serbia were the scene of almost biblical floods this spring. in this context, i would like to alert the european parliament and the european public that i am convinced that we need to make serious moves to help countries that do not have sufficiently established cross-border cooperation and that still in some way benefit from cooperation. in this case, we had a situation where the damage was hundreds of millions of euros, maybe billions of euros, we had a loss of life - dozens of people were killed or disappeared. the tragedies are truly great, for the citizens, for their property and for their general farming, especially tomorrow, as the fields have also suffered enormous damage. what i am proposing, of course, is that we should create a system - and this is my first proposal - that will be able to intervene immediately from the solidarity fund, at least with some minimal resources. within 24 hours, 48 hours, we have to act immediately, because then we show our efficiency and our seriousness. when we act like this after four, five, six months, people get frustrated, they forget who helped them in the first place, where the funds came from. i therefore propose that we create a group of people who can act immediately at european level and be sent to certain areas, because it is often the national countries or regional authorities that are the ones who know how to schedule. and my third proposal is a joint european monitoring for all those areas that we know could have major damage from flooding.
mr president, the commission's proposal for a directive from 2005 states that coordination should also be with non-eu countries, i.e. countries belonging to the same river basin, which is of course very logical, because this coordination reduces overall costs. i took the floor when mr jakovčić, the rapporteur of the european parliament for the adriatic-ionian initiative, proposed to him, the commission and parliament that this dimension of cooperation within the adriatic-ionian initiative should also be used to better coordinate the efforts of the member states in this initiative, but also to better coordinate their efforts with the member states of the european union.
written. i welcome the commission's decision to allocate eur 80 million in aid to the flood-affected areas of croatia, bulgaria and serbia. i support simplifying the rules and conditions for accessing the solidarity fund with a view to providing more effective and timely assistance to vulnerable populations. it is important that the affected countries have a full understanding of the criteria of the european solidarity fund. this is the only way to give the commission a good presentation of the situation on the ground and thus to achieve the maximum possible financial assistance. the commission should be involved in the discussion from the outset and not act before the deadline itself. the green party conference in macedonia concluded that the natural disaster that hit areas of south-eastern europe conceals responsibility for climate change. for this reason, we must combat the harmful effects on the environment and make a serious commitment to promoting and financing preventive measures to reduce natural disasters. the green parties of the balkans will advocate for a sustainable and secure future with an emphasis on a healthy environment and human life in the same. the concept of an ecosystem approach is not sufficiently recognised by the member states and the commission, even though the approach itself shows better results than traditional technical solutions. i call on all stakeholders to use this sustainable way of preventing and dealing with the consequences of floods and other natural disasters. effective prevention is always cheaper than rebuilding the affected areas.
, written. the existing ad hoc european solidarity fund, which was recently established, is part of the regional development policy, and far more important than compensation from this fund is timely prevention, which includes the construction of embankments and dams in accordance with the strategy for flood protection and risk management, which unfortunately croatia does not have. the damage in croatia caused by floods in may, in which as many as 26 000 people were evacuated, is estimated at €297.6 million, while croatia will only receive €8.96 million under the package proposed by the ec's regional development commissioner, johannes hahn. the amount provided is insufficient for the reconstruction of housing, business, municipal and infrastructure facilities in croatia, as well as for compensating injured farmers and cattle breeders and for the destroyed electricity supply network, but also for roads. this is an opportunity to call on the commission to increase the amount of funds from the solidarity fund for croatia, while at the same time i call on the government of the republic of croatia to develop a flood protection and risk management strategy as soon as possible in order to avoid such disasters in the future. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the eu-funded actions in the field of water policy, including the implementation of the eu-funded actions in the field of water policy.
mr. president, the ebola epidemic must be stopped where it started, and that's in west africa. so all of our efforts, and this discussion today, must be focused on west africa. of course we can and must talk about prevention measures here in europe, but we must not lose sight of west africa. if the ebola outbreak is not brought under control there, then our preventive measures in europe will not be enough. so we must act on the ground with more energy and determination than ever before. i appreciate commissioner georgieva's timely reaction back in march this year, but member states must do more. it must not happen again that when a nurse from europe becomes ill, no member state is able to send a special plane to pick her up, but we have to wait for others to do so. so, aside from the procedure and my question, do we now have an identified aircraft and crew, any progress on that? i think that's the key question for the success of all our efforts. one final thought: we want and we need to isolate the ebola epidemic, but we don't want to isolate sierra leone, guinea, liberia. we do not want and cannot turn our back on west africa and that is why our candidate for commissioner is christos stylianides who has promised here with us that his first official trip will be to west africa. i think that's the right example and the right approach to how we have to conquer fear, that's exactly how we can defeat ebola.
written. the ebola epidemic began in vulnerable and poor countries in africa but has spread to other continents. reassuring and optimistic are reports that the ebola outbreak in senegal has been successfully contained. on the other hand, there is concern about media reports that the world health organization has failed to respond effectively to the ebola epidemic. we live in a time of great scientific advancement, and we cannot accept that the epidemic will stop sooner or later without our intervention, as has happened with many epidemics in history. but, of course, research and relief costs money. given the gravity of the situation, i call on the european commission to activate all financial, political and health mechanisms to protect citizens. as long as there is no cure or vaccine, i believe it is vital to work on raising awareness and knowledge of the ways in which ebola spreads, so that there is no panic, but an accurate and timely response.
madam president, the youth guarantee scheme as a new mechanism is a response to the economic crisis, a kind of fire-fighting measure. but it's not just the crisis that's responsible for youth unemployment, because the roots of this problem, i believe, run much deeper. therefore, only strong cooperation and partnership between the european, national, regional and local levels can really deliver results in this case. but also a sincere partnership with the education system and of course especially with the private sector where i particularly emphasize small and medium-sized enterprises. i would like to add three incentives to this: firstly, the creation of a really effective mechanism for self-employment of young people; secondly, the mobility of young people within the european union; and thirdly, the conclusion that the digital market and energy as a sector for the employment of young people is something that is topical, as i heard from mr della vedova, but i add also agriculture and tourism.
, written. unemployment in the european union has been at record levels for the past five years, particularly youth unemployment. urgent measures to stimulate job creation are necessary. the commission notes that the aid granted to the beneficiaries of the measure is limited to the minimum necessary to achieve the objective of common interest. the commission should also be able to provide the necessary information to the member states and the commission on the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance. the eu funds are still too small to be directed directly to entrepreneurs' projects and to strengthening entrepreneurial infrastructure. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the aid granted to the beneficiary of the measure is compatible with the internal market. the european commission should actively encourage member states to implement youth measures and use youth allocations more quickly. young people need jobs today, not in the future. many talented and bright young people leave for other continents. europe, which is aging at a galloping pace, has become a hotbed of young talent, and our economy cannot bear that. the conferences are important and i support their holding, but if they are not followed up by measures and their implementation in practice, they become meaningless, and we do not want that.
mr vice-president, the european semester is conceived as a comprehensive framework which, by means of refined criteria, will ensure better coordination of the economic policies of the member states. it is therefore essential that we clearly identify the weaknesses and the opportunities for improving this visionary framework in the first half-yearly evaluation reports for the new financial period. it is important to include sustainable development objectives in this framework, which aims to measure the success of european economic policies, and the committee on the environment, public health and food safety has therefore expressed its opinion on the report in this respect. it is essential to include in the recommendations to member states evaluations and recommendations aiming at energy efficiency, increasing the share of renewable energy sources and reducing co2 emissions by 2020. the commission should recognise at all departmental levels the importance of these objectives as key to achieving local jobs and sustainable green growth. energy security and sustainable development are the only guarantees for the long-term and successful economic recovery of the member states of the european union. in this light, it is essential to involve environment ministers, environmental policies and awareness raising on the importance of moving to a circular economy as a new paradigm for waste and energy management in this overwhelming economic debate. we need to become more efficient in managing the resources we have and turn to energy connectivity and energy independence as the keys to successful economic growth.
mr president, i would like to congratulate my colleague rapporteur, mr de backer, and all the colleagues who have made a great contribution to the preparation of this concise and substantive report. a lot of activities and measures are being taken at the european union level on the monetary policy side. for progress, growth and development, we need strong fiscal policy actions and measures. this is precisely the role of the european semester, which encourages member states to reform, strengthen competitiveness and thereby economic recovery. the report stresses the importance of linking cohesion policy with the implementation of the european semester recommendations. the funds should be directed to financing the reforms requested by the recommendations. investing in change and development projects, in research, innovation, education and skills are key to achieving the growth we all want, and this is what this report highlights. that's why i support him completely.
written. - i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution because the financial contribution from the european globalisation adjustment fund will help the 633 dismissed workers in the valencian community who are in a state of uncertainty and in difficult life situations. i also support the rather quick reaction of the european commission which responded promptly to the request of the spanish authorities to re-integrate them into the labour market, given that the finished metal products sector is one of the main suppliers of important eu sectors of the economy (e.g. construction, shipbuilding). the unemployment rates in the eu have reached historic levels as a result of the economic crisis, and therefore concrete measures (such as vocational training) need to be implemented, in addition to the egf, which constitutes exceptional assistance, in order to make a strong contribution to the economies of the affected regions.
written. - i have decided to support the report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund to assist the comunidad valenciana region, where 633 workers were made redundant from 142 companies operating in the finished metal products sector. the european globalisation adjustment fund was created to provide additional support to workers made redundant as a result of the global financial and economic crisis, in order to support their reintegration into the labour market. this report seeks to mobilise eur 1 million for affected workers to provide them with professional guidance, employment mediation, education and training for new jobs, promotion of entrepreneurship, entrepreneurship and employment incentives, compensation for job-seeking and travel costs to work, all with a view to re-entering the labour market and increasing the level of employment.
written. - as last year's rapporteur for the mobilisation of egf funds for the construction sector in valencia, i supported the report by my colleague ms šulin on the allocation of € 1 019 184 to spain. i supported the overall european union initiative to create a european globalisation adjustment fund. i also welcomed the decision of the european commission to allocate funds to spain to enable the retraining of metalworkers and their reintegration into the labour market. i think it's extremely important to stimulate the labour market in this way, because in the wake of the financial and economic crisis, many people have become operating surplus. the question of unemployment is one of the most important issues of our time and a major problem facing the countries of the european union, of which i am extremely aware, especially because of the number of unemployed people in my country, the republic of croatia. to overcome the crisis and get the economy going, we need to work on reducing unemployment, and i think that can be achieved with initiatives like this. i hope that the measures provided by the european globalisation adjustment fund in this case will be implemented as soon as possible on the basis of the principle of equality and fairness.
written. - as spain is one of the european countries hardest hit by the crisis, i welcome this decision in which the eu has established legislative and budgetary instruments to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade flows and to help them reintegrate into the labour market. the redundancies in 142 enterprises operating in the sector of the production of finished metal products in spain are linked to the global financial and economic crisis which has affected the whole of europe and caused problems of a social character. employment in this region has been severely affected by the impact of the crisis on the traditional sectors. i support the decision to prevent the dismissal of 633 workers because any further redundancies at the comunidad valenciana will worsen the already difficult situation created by the unemployment problem. i welcome any proposal that could enable the economy to start up and re-employment, such as the intention to allocate eur 3 000 to 20 beneficiaries, which could greatly help their return to the labour market by setting up their own businesses, as well as a proposal for vocational training, higher qualifications, learning additional skills that can adapt workers to the future needs of the metal industry.
written. - i support the use of the european globalisation adjustment fund egf/2014/004 es/comunidad valenciana metal from spain. the report we received from the rapporteur clearly shows that the closures in 142 spanish companies involved in the production of metal products are linked to the global financial crisis. the commission notes that the spanish authorities have not provided any evidence that the measures in question are imputable to the state. spain is one of the member states most affected by the crisis, which has led to a fall in demand and thus a fall in the production of metal products. the commission notes that the valencian authorities have not provided any evidence that the measures in question were necessary to restore the viability of the company. the number of jobs in the said industry decreased to 20 873 by 2012, representing a decrease of 43%, which is eight percentage points higher than at national level. i believe that the mobilisation of this fund will help to alleviate the difficulties caused by the dismissal of 633 workers from 142 companies in the comunidad valenciana. that is why i support this report.
written. - i voted against the proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, based on a request from spain (egf/2014/004 es/comunidad valenciana metal) for a financial contribution of eur 1 019 184 from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf), following the redundancies of 633 workers in 142 enterprises active in the manufacture of finished metal products. in my view, such packages of measures are merely firefighting measures that offer no long-term solution to the redundancies on the one hand and to the poor economic situation in the crisis-hit sectors on the other. in particular, i believe that member states must provide their companies with a sound business framework that will enable them to compete on the global market, which presupposes the tax burden and the removal of bureaucratic barriers that hamper investment and business. in the case of spain's request, i welcome the fact that the proposed package of tailor-made services includes, inter alia, the promotion of entrepreneurship and the incentives for business start-ups. however, there are questions about the prosperity of new small businesses in a sector that has long been facing difficulties. on the other hand, measures to encourage entrepreneurship must be one of the pillars of any economic recovery and employment policy, and not just one of the services offered to workers after their dismissal.
written. - i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because it supports the labour market of the province of flanders, where ford genk is the largest employer, and which will have a significant impact on the unemployment rate following the two additional waves of layoffs that are foreseen. it is of the utmost importance to provide effective and concrete assistance from the european globalisation adjustment fund, given that as many as 98,1% of the workers made redundant are aged between 25 and 54 years and as the eu's market share in passenger car production is declining. it is also important to protect the local economy and stimulate its growth as much as possible. i also support the fact that the flemish government, in the case of ford genk, has taken targeted measures to address this issue, such as the setting up of a special working group and the consultation and participation of the social partners in the established committee for monitoring the egf application.
written. - in view of the unfavourable situation of the automotive sector in the european union and the constant fall in passenger car sales affected by the economic crisis and the decline in production as a consequence of structural changes in world trade flows, i supported the report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund to assist belgium in connection with the redundancies at the assembly plant of ford-werke gmbh located in genk (ford genk) and the redundancies at 10 suppliers. the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of structural changes brought about by globalisation. this report seeks to mobilise eur 580 000 to help redundant workers to reintegrate more quickly through job search assistance and training and retraining.
written. - i supported the report of the reporter paul rübig. in today's world of pure market economies and globalisation, many companies and their workers are undergoing structural reforms aimed at eliminating unprofitability and misallocation of resources. i support the proposal of the european commission and the council to grant financial assistance to the workers made redundant at the ford genk plant in the amount of €570 945. the process of helping dismissed people to seek employment and counselling is very useful, as are the proposed retraining measures. the data showing the level of seriousness is the fact that for every 100 workers laid off at the ford genk plant, there are 137 workers laid off by related companies. the commission notes that the belgian authorities have not provided any evidence that the aid is compatible with the internal market. faced with a difficult economic situation in the production and marketing of new cars we must refocus our attention on mitigating the crisis.
written. - i support the decision to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund in accordance with point 13 of the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2013 between the european parliament, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline, on cooperation in budgetary matters and on sound financial management. in the context of high unemployment and low economic growth facing the european union, i particularly welcome the efforts of the belgian authorities to help workers more quickly to launch the implementation of services tailored to the needs of the affected workers on 1 july 2014, well before the final decision on the allocation of egf resources for the proposed harmonised package. the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was established to provide additional support for workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in the passenger car industry affecting the labour market. i also support the co-financing of a package of services tailored to the needs of the 479 redundant workers to re-integrate them into the labour market, including retraining, recruitment through individual vocational training, a vocational training course. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules. the institutions should also make greater efforts to improve procedural arrangements to accelerate the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund.
written. - changing global trade routes due to globalisation and a drop in new car sales within the european union have led to the loss of 512 jobs, and two more waves of layoffs are expected due to the closure of ford's genk factory. this will have a negative impact on the local labour market in the flemish region, which already has a high unemployment rate and low education and work skills. for every 100 jobs lost within ford genk, an additional 65 jobs are lost at the suppliers in linsburg, and another 72 at the suppliers in the rest of the flemish region. in order to avoid many of the problems that have arisen in the past with the redundancies caused by the closure of the ford plant in genk (strikes, social discontent, etc.), i consider it extremely useful to use the european globalisation adjustment fund, as we will thus reduce many of the social problems caused by the redundancies. this will give workers time to adapt to the new situation and allow them to make an easier transition to the labour market. for the above reasons, i support the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund egf/2013/012 be/ford genk from belgium.
written. - i voted against the proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, based on the application from belgium, registered as egf/2013/012 be/ford genk, to finance an egf contribution of eur 570 945, following the redundancies of 512 persons, 479 of whom should be subject to measures, at the plant for the establishment of ford-werke gmbh. in my view, such packages of measures are merely firefighting measures that offer no long-term solution to the redundancies on the one hand and to the poor economic situation in the crisis-hit sectors on the other. in particular, i believe that member states must provide their companies with a sound business framework that will enable them to compete in the global market, which presupposes the tax burden and the removal of bureaucratic barriers that hamper investment and business. in the case of belgium's request for ford genk, i object in particular to the proposed package of services because belgium did not use the possibility of financing incentives for the creation of own enterprises, i.e. did not include in its package measures to encourage entrepreneurship which should be one of the pillars of the employment policy of the member states.
written. - i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution because the dismissal of 939 workers from carsid sa will have a significant impact on unemployment in the area of the belgian city of charleroi (near which the company is located), where the long-term unemployment rate has exceeded 20%. the commission also found that the union industry was not able to fully benefit from the measures in force. the redundancies at the carsid production plant are a major problem for the local population and the financial assistance from the european globalisation adjustment fund is an adequate measure to alleviate this situation.
the commission has also decided to initiate the procedure laid down in article 108 (2) of the treaty in respect of the application of the provisions of the treaty on the functioning of the european union to the measures provided for in article 108 (3) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. the european globalisation adjustment fund was established to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of structural changes brought about by globalisation. this report seeks to secure €900,000 to help displaced workers in the form of individual job search assistance and training and re-skilling for new jobs, and i supported it.
written. - i supported the report of my colleague petri sarvamaae. unfortunately, the number of redundancies is increasing daily due to structural reforms in the metalworking industry. this proposal to mobilise the egf of € 911 934 aims to repair the damage caused by the redundancies of 752 workers. the package is intended to subsidize the retraining of workers in the metalworking industry and to help each worker individually to find a new job. i support the process of accelerating the withdrawal of funds from the egf. it took several years to approve aid to this enterprise. unfortunately, this crisis is caused by a crisis in new vehicle sales. the main exporters of carsid are the big car manufacturers. they're currently in declining demand for cast steel. the union industry's sales volume and market share developed over the period considered as follows: the world steel market did not experience a decline but increased by 25,1%. the competitiveness of the european union has been greatly reduced. i support close cooperation between the social partners and the european institutions. the role of trade unions in negotiations is very important in order to find common ground on the way to help the dismissed workers. the city of charleroi, with these layoffs, is coming up with an unemployment rate of 21.6%. this is well above the national average unemployment rate of 11.2%.
written. - the eu has put in place legislative and budgetary instruments to provide additional support to workers who have been affected by the consequences of major changes in world trade flows, but also to help them reintegrate into the labour market. the union's financial assistance to workers made redundant should be made more dynamic and available as quickly as possible, in line with the joint statement of the european parliament, the council and the commission adopted on 17 july 2008. i support the proposal because it reflects the agreement reached by parliament and the council on the reintroduction of the criteria for mobilising the funds in the event of a crisis, but also because it is about increasing efficiency in the handling of requests for mobilisation. belgium has submitted an application for financial assistance from the egf, following the redundancies of 939 workers, of which 752 are expected to be covered by the measures, in connection with the closure of the production plant of carsid sa. i should point out that there is a danger that the layoffs in carsid will cause unemployment in the city area to rise significantly. the commission has also received comments from the belgian authorities, which have not provided any information on the application of the egf regulation.
written. - given that belgium has applied for financial assistance from the egf following the redundancies of 939 workers and 752 persons are expected to be covered by the measures relating to the closure of the production company carsid sa, i consider it necessary to reduce the duration of the start-up period in order to allow the egf to act as quickly as possible. however, it is important to note that the egf was established to provide support for workers made redundant as a result of structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation, and that it can only co-finance active labour market measures leading to long-term employment and should not replace activities for which undertakings are responsible under national law or collective agreements, nor restructuring measures. in view of the above, i support the proposal and the egf should be mobilised in order to provide a financial contribution for the application submitted by belgium.
written. - i voted against the proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, based on the request from belgium egf/2013/02 be/carsid for financial assistance from the egf following the redundancies of 939 workers, of which 752 are expected to be affected by the measures, in connection with the closure of the production plant of carsid sa (carsid) located in marcinelle. in my view, such packages of measures are merely firefighting measures that offer no long-term solution to the redundancies on the one hand and to the poor economic situation in the crisis-hit sectors on the other. in particular, i believe that member states must provide their companies with a healthy business framework that will enable them to compete in the global market, which implies tax relief and the removal of bureaucratic barriers that hamper investment and business. in the case of belgium's carsid request, i am particularly opposed to the proposed package of services which does not include measures to encourage entrepreneurship among dismissed workers which should be a pillar of any economic policy. it would also be desirable to make the financing of such packages conditional on the adoption of long-term measures that will allow growth in sectors affected by the crisis, since we cannot blindly finance the retraining of workers made redundant as a result of poorly managed economic policies and the inability of the state to ensure for its companies the conditions that will allow them to compete effectively on the global market.
written. - i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution to allocate resources from the european globalisation adjustment fund to the benefit of the dismissed workers of peugeot citroen automobiles, whose dismissal is further aggravating unemployment in the regions where the two affected plants are located, namely in île-de-france brittany. the decline in vehicle production in france, as a result of the fundamental changes in the world market, has had a significant impact on 6120 peugeot citroen automobiles workers who need to be reintegrated into the labour market through the egf with the help of start-up grants. it is therefore necessary to ensure that workers made redundant and self-employed persons throughout europe can count on eu support through support measures such as the egf in similar cases.
written. - i support the report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund to help france following the dismissal of workers from the peugeot citroën automobiles trading company. redundancies are linked to structural changes caused by the increasing trend of globalisation. the european globalisation adjustment fund aims to provide additional assistance to workers made redundant and self-employed persons who have had to cease their activity as a result of globalisation. this report allocates eur 12,7 million to provide measures for redundant workers such as a reception centre and social work with individuals, the involvement of external experts for the guidance of workers, thematic workshops, training, fees for participation in training programmes and start-up grants, which is why i supported it.
written. - unemployment is one of the worst consequences of the economic, social and financial crisis that the whole world has been facing for years. the european union's initiative to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund is one of the projects that can help countries to take care of workers who have lost their jobs as a result of major structural changes. i supported the european commission's decision to allocate funds to the french automobile industry, peugeot citroën automobiles, in particular because the measures will benefit more than 2 000 workers. given that, according to a report by the french government, the largest number of redundancies due to the new situation belong to the older age group, from 55 to 64, it is of particular importance to support their reintegration into the labour market. measures such as retraining, career guidance, career management skills development, further education and training are a way of providing employment opportunities for older workers who are not considered an attractive workforce. in the light of the above, i supported the commission's proposal to allocate €12 704 605 from the european globalisation adjustment fund to france.
written. - in view of the situation of major structural changes in world trade flows that directly affect french automotive workers, i believe that eu financial assistance should be dynamic and made available as soon as possible to help workers to enter the labour market as soon as possible. the conditions of the egf regulation are met and i consider that france is entitled to a financial contribution under that regulation. to date, 21 applications for egf allocation related to the automotive sector have been received, 12 of which are based on the effects of globalisation on trade and 9 on the effects of the global financial and economic crisis. this package of services, adapted to the needs for which co-financing is sought, covers measures for redundant workers. i support the plan to provide interest-free loans to start-ups that could help participants to establish sustainable businesses. i would remind the importance of increasing the employment rate of all workers through tailored training programmes and the recognition of skills and competences acquired by the worker during his professional career. i welcome this decision as the harmonised package of tailor-made services has been designed in consultation with the national representatives of the intended beneficiaries and the social partners, and with the social policy of equality between women and men and the principle of non-discrimination.
written. - given that france has applied for financial assistance from the egf following the dismissal of 6 120 workers and that 2 357 persons are expected to be affected by measures relating to the operations of the manufacturing company peugeot automobiles, i consider it necessary to reduce the duration of the introduction period in order to allow the egf to act as quickly as possible. however, it is important to note that the egf was established to provide support for workers made redundant as a result of structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation, and that it can only co-finance active labour market measures leading to long-term employment and should not replace activities for which undertakings are responsible under national law or collective agreements, nor restructuring measures. the plants concerned may undergo significant industrial conversion, which could encourage a stronger redistribution of labour if they exploit their potential for multimodal transport. in view of the above, i support the proposal and the egf should be mobilised in order to provide a financial contribution for the application submitted by france.
written. - i voted against the proposal for a decision to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund, based on a request by spain for a financial contribution from the egf following 6 120 redundancies at peugeot citroën automobiles, with 2 357 workers expected to be covered by measures to be co-financed by the egf amounting to eur 12 704 605. in my view, such packages of measures are merely firefighting measures that offer no long-term solution to the redundancies on the one hand and to the poor economic situation in the crisis-hit sectors on the other. in particular, i believe that member states must provide their companies with a sound business framework that will enable them to compete in the global market, which presupposes the tax burden and the removal of bureaucratic barriers that hamper investment and business. in the case of france's request, i welcome the fact that the service includes measures for the granting of business start-up grants, but also a plan for the granting of interest-free loans for the establishment of companies. such measures should be the basis for any plan adopted after mass redundancies, rather than unpromising and precarious training measures. however, measures to encourage entrepreneurship must be one of the pillars of any economic recovery and employment policy, and not just one of the services offered to workers after their dismissal.
, written. the five years of the barroso ii commission were marked primarily by the economic and financial crisis. this has, inter alia, resulted in an increased concentration of power in the hands of the commission which has largely followed the corporate agenda. some of the key legislative proposals were withdrawn without adequate explanation of the reasons for their withdrawal. european policy has remained one-sided and has continued to emphasise the market, while neglecting social and employment policy. you started your second term with an economic downturn, and you end it with economic stagnation, record low inflation and the promise of another downturn. the mandate was also marked by problems with transparency. the absence of a commission report on transparency in the eu institutions and the fact that almost two thirds of financial sector lobby groups are not registered undermines the already low level of public trust. transparent access to an eu institution building does not guarantee both transparency and protection against abuse of office. i hope that the poor assessment of your economic and political 'results' will be a good guide for the new commission not to repeat the same mistakes.
mr president, i expect that of the announced 300 billion euro investment in the reindustrialisation of europe, a significant part will be for the energy sector, and of course i support the creation of a common energy union. i also support the efforts of the baltic countries, finland and the efforts that malta is making here, and i want to make it clear that we should also take care of our environment. so i call for a good reflection on whether to build a thermal power plant on the coal in croatia, when already there near immediately to that location we can build an lng terminal that would be much better of course for the environment. what i want to emphasize here is the large reserves of renewable energy in the balkans in countries that are not yet members of the european union, and i believe that we need to find common ground here, because in this way we can get much cheaper energy and renewable energy, and maybe also solve the problem of flooding and other problems that these countries have.
mr president, the russian embargo, climate change, record youth unemployment, unpaid bills, over-indebtedness, failure to meet growth and employment targets are challenges that the 2015 budget must address at least in part in order to meet the targets set for 2020. the common agricultural policy is certainly an important part of the budget and i would be glad if it were bigger and if projects were implemented to ensure that people in the countryside could stay and live in dignity. my view is that special attention should be paid to small family farms which are food producers, conservationists of space and biodiversity, and drivers of development and life in rural areas. and that has to be seen in the budget. the farmers affected by the russian embargo should find their place in this budget, but not in the common agricultural policy segment but within the budgetary reserves as proposed by the chairman of the committee on agriculture and rural development.
mr president, i would like to congratulate you, mr juncker, on the composition of the commission, on the ambitious commission, on the vision you have. i also see that you've had to make a series of compromises, but i also see that you'll lead the commission with no compromise. you will rebuild bridges after the crisis, as you said, and restore the confidence of european citizens. you also said that you would not develop the european union at the expense of the countries, the national member states. i like that approach a lot. you also mentioned mr barroso's commission as a success, during whose tenure 13 countries joined the european union. among them is croatia, my country, and i am very pleased that you have put yourself in the position of enlargement so that mr hahn, who is very experienced, will be the commissioner for enlargement. we are also very interested in the relationship with transport, the adriatic-ionian corridor and the trans adriatic pipeline. these are very important issues when it comes to southeast europe. i also welcome this part where you talk about gender equality. you said, and i quote, 'this is not a luxury, but an obligation for all european politicians.' so not just in your commission, but at all levels, administrative and political in the commission, we expect more women, and i believe you will deliver. i want to tell you that this commission should make the citizens of europe live better. may your investment program succeed. i am convinced that you will increase employment and reduce youth unemployment, which i consider to be a key theme of the european union.
written. i supported the work programme of the new commission of president juncker. as the hdz's candidate in the european elections in the czech republic, i am pleased that we have contributed to the victory of the epp's "spitzenkandidat" as president of the commission. the innovative electoral process has strengthened the democratic legitimacy of the eu institutions, with the ep playing a prominent role. juncker has put together a high-quality team of commissioners who have proven competent in the hearings. the work programme focuses on employment, growth, equity and democratic change. given the problems facing the member states of the union, and in particular unemployment, i expect that the main priority of the work of the future commission will be to strengthen the european economy with a positive impact on the standard of living of citizens. the european union needs smarter investment, less regulation and more flexibility. it is important to build better infrastructure, strengthen industry, create a strong energy union and pursue an active climate policy. i stress the need to boost the internal and digital market, to strengthen the emu as the basis for the union's economic growth. i expect further strong engagement on illegal migration, the fight against cross-border crime and terrorism. at global level, it is crucial to strengthen the eu's foreign policy engagement with partners in the resolution of the crises in ukraine, syria and iraq, and to prioritise the neighbourhood policy. i am pleased that the commission will be working on an eu enlargement policy, particularly towards bosnia and herzegovina.
president of the council. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i note that the european parliament has just adopted amendments to the council's position on the draft budget for the financial year 2015, taking into account the different positions at this point. there was a wide-ranging debate yesterday. as president of the council, in agreement with the president of the european parliament, i hereby announce that the conciliation committee will then be convened as provided for in article 314 (4) (c) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
president of the council. - mr president, just to say that the council notes that parliament's amendments to the council's position have been approved also in respect of amending budget no 2 for the financial year 2014, and therefore also in respect of this amending budget, in agreement with the president of the european parliament, the council will request the activation of the conciliation committee, as provided for in article 314 (4) (c) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
mr president, the dilemmas surrounding the election of mr juncker have reignited the debate on the direction in which the european union should develop 60 years after its foundation. has the recent crisis shown that the european project should be limited to the development of the single market, or is the only answer to the crisis the european union as a deeply integrated political community? jacques delors argued that the european economic model must be based on three principles: competition that stimulates, cooperation that strengthens and solidarity that unites. and the five most pressing european problems that the new commission needs to tackle immediately are: unemployment, social inequalities, member states' public debt, climate change and population ageing. i voted for this european union partly because its president promised in his speech to parliament that he would be the president of the european social dialogue. he should be given a chance as a competent man, as one of the designers of a system that has worked well for a long time, and that now needs to be seriously improved.
written. - the new european commission has the greatest burden of getting the eu out of the crisis and restoring faith in the european project. the last five years of the barroso commission will not be remembered for good, the main associations associated with it are painful cuts and prolonged crisis. mr juncker's commission will inherit that burden, but i hope that in 2019 european citizens will live significantly better. this is crucial for the survival of the european union and the long-term stability of our continent. some commissioners like mr canete and mr navracsics are a bitter pill to swallow, but if we want excellent commissioners like mr timmermans, mr andirukaitis and mr mimica to take up their duties, we must vote for the commission's proposal in its entirety. i expect president juncker to deliver on his promise of a 300 billion euro investment cycle, to be directed towards growth and jobs projects, within a reasonable timeframe. the commission also undertook to ensure that the security and rights of european consumers are not compromised during the ttip and ceta negotiations. i welcome the announcement that mr juncker will abandon his intention to transfer medicines and medical devices to the portfolio of the commissioner for market and industry. it means he has listened to the voice of the european parliament and i hope that this is a sign of the way he will work for the next five years.
written. - i voted for the new european commission as the election of mr juncker as president of the european commission itself expresses the will of the european parliament as expressed by the majority of citizens in the eu elections in may. the commission is politically strong, with several former prime ministers in prominent roles, and balanced in its allocation of responsibilities with regard to the countries from which commissioners come. although i believe that people like the hungarian representative tibor navracsis, who in his political work so far has shown himself to be an opponent of the fundamental european democratic values, have no place in the european commission - i voted in favour of this because i was convinced that the commissioners of the european commission reflect the necessary political compromise, but more importantly, i believe that this composition of the european commission provides a good basis for the successful management of the european union in the next 5 years.
written. - the new process for electing the president of the european commission has strengthened the democratic legitimacy of the eu institutions, with the european parliament playing a prominent role. in the process of hearing candidates for commissioners of the european commission, the competent committees of the european parliament also played an important role in the examination and confirmation of candidates for commissioners. after the president-elect's speech today on the college of commissioners and the work programme, i voted for the new european commission because i believe that jean-claude juncker has put together a quality team of commissioners. it is an experienced team, with several former prime ministers, former ministers and commissioners, and former colleagues in the european parliament. i am pleased that croatia has been given the responsibility for managing one of the most important portfolios, international cooperation and development, and i would also like to congratulate the croatian commissioner, neven mimica, and wish him success in his new mandate.
written. - as the only croatian mep who voted against the new composition of the european commission, i decided to explain my opinion. despite warnings from several political groups, the proposed commissioners have been or are proven to be in conflict of interest, have publicly expressed gender intolerance and have supported violations of civil rights and democratic values which is unacceptable for future public office holders. one of the main reasons i disagree is the future president's clearly stated position on stopping the enlargement policy. the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the eu's new strategy for the region, which is to be submitted to the european parliament and the council by the end of the year. the commission will also significantly weaken the sectoral climate change and environmental protection policies by merging the climate change and energy and environment and fisheries directorates-general. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's energy policy and its implementation in the medium term. the new commission's imagined energy policies are risky enough to discourage private capital and expose europe to energy insecurity. my vote and the vote of my green/ess club colleague does not mean that we are against all the proposed commissioners, but some of the more important guidelines for prosperity and trust are misplaced.
written. - i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because the adoption of amendment no 2 to the 2014 budget would reduce the contribution of member states' gross national income to the eu budget, so that the surplus of eur 1,005 million in 2013 would be entered in the 2014 budget. taking into account the scale of the financial crisis that has affected european countries, but also the structure of the european union, those amendments represent a coherent and balanced approach to the eu financial framework.
the commission has included in its draft amending budget no 2 for 2014 a budget surplus of eur 1 billion, which was generated by revenue increases (+ eur 771 million), lower than planned expenditure (+ eur 276 million) and negative exchange rate differences (eur -42 million). this would mean a reduction of member states' contributions to the european budget by eur 1 billion. as draft amending budget no 2 was adopted in parallel with draft amending budgets no 3 (mobilisation of additional payment appropriations) and no 4 (revision of the forecast of traditional own resources), additional budgetary contributions of eur 106 million (payments by the member state to the budget on the basis of gni) are required to provide the funds for additional payments. i supported this report because it is important for meeting existing budgetary commitments.
written. - i have supported the amendment to the budget of the european union no 2/2014 for the financial year 2014, part iii. commission, the purpose of which is to enter an amount of eur 1 005 million as surplus from the financial year 2013 in the 2014 budget. it is clear that these changes do not address the real problem of unpaid bills, which have reached the level of €25 billion, and i think it is important to highlight the fact that the eu's credibility is once again being called into question. delaying the adoption of as many decisions as possible, as the council proposes, is also not the solution. we must fulfil the commitments we have made in recent years and, above all, during the negotiation process of the new multiannual financial framework. otherwise, it is clear that it will not be possible to implement the agreed mff correctly if we do not respect the agreement in the first year of its implementation.
written. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the amount of the compensation for the costs of the public service obligations. the adoption of this amending budget no 2 would reduce the share of the gni contribution of the member states to the eu budget by eur 1,005 million and thus partially replace their contribution to amending budget no 3 (eur 3 170 million of additional own resources required). i therefore stress the need to implement the procedure for adopting draft amending budget no 2 in parallel with the negotiations on draft amending budget no 3 concerning the mobilisation of additional payment appropriations and draft amending budget no 4 concerning the review of the estimates of traditional own resources, other revenue and the definitive fixing of some penalties, thus allowing for an additional eur 2 059 million of own resources which could further reduce the need for additional appropriations from the draft amending budget no 3. i consider it important to maintain the political and procedural link between draft amending budgets nos 2, 3 and 4, and on that basis i support this report.
written. - i support the amendment of the budget no 2/2014 of the european union for the financial year 2014, part iii. i consider that the amendments made to draft budget no 2/2014 are of high quality and that the entry of eur 1,005 million as surplus from the financial year 2013 into the 2014 budget will help in certain financial sectors within the european union. on the revenue side, the increase is mainly due to penalties and interest accruing, which means that if we add this to the 2014 budget, the contribution that the eu member states themselves have to pay will be reduced. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance in the context of the union's macro-financial assistance. and by doing so, the european union will also move forward in a positive direction. improving the quality of life for every citizen within the european union is what we should be striving for, and the amendment of this budget is another step in that direction.
written. - i voted against the motion for a resolution of the european parliament on the council position on draft amending budget no 2/2014 of the european union for the financial year 2014, part iii. commission, because the rapporteur proposes that instead of reducing the member states' gdp contribution, the member states' contribution to draft amending budget no 3 should be replaced by an amount in excess of eur 1,005 million, and therefore proposes that the procedure for adopting draft amending budget no 2 should be carried out in parallel with the negotiations on draft amending budget no 3, which concerns the mobilisation of additional appropriations for the payment of draft amending budget no 4 concerning the revision of estimates of traditional own resources and other revenue and the definitive fixing of certain penalties. i consider that such a recommendation is unacceptable as it constitutes a breach of the financial regulation and of article 18 (1) thereof, which provides that 'the balance of each financial year shall be entered in the budget of the following financial year as revenue in the event of a surplus or as payment appropriations in the event of a loss'.
written. - i voted in favour of the draft amendments to the draft general budget for 2015 because they represent a balanced and harmonised approach to the parts of the budget in question for 2015. the amendments are aimed at further strengthening and defining the revenues and expenditures of the european union, and it is necessary to take into account the effects of the world economic crisis, which strongly affected the growth and investment of the eu and thus contributed to the definition of the budget for the next year.
written. - europe must have the means to act in favour of growth and employment. this year's budget aims to strengthen those programmes at the heart of the europe 2020 strategy, aimed at boosting growth, employment and competitiveness - such as horizon 2020, cosme, erasmus+, the digital agenda, progress and the social agenda (including eures and the microfinance facility). these programmes are an example of the union's contribution to an innovative and thriving economy across europe. i therefore supported the draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2015.
written. - the union budget must not be seen and assessed as a mere financial item imposing a burden on national budgets, but rather as an opportunity to stimulate initiatives and investments of importance and added value for the union as a whole. i agree with parliament's remark that the eu budget needs to be designed to reflect the current difficult economic situation that citizens across the eu face on a daily basis. in addition, the difficult economic situation in many member states, still reeling from the effects of the recession and the global crisis, requires that the agreed reforms be pursued without compromising legislative execution or disrupting the relationship between the national parliament and the european parliament in order to achieve the desired eu-wide economic recovery. i therefore support the decision of the european parliament that the budget for 2015 should be set on a realistic basis and in line with financial management, and that the budget should cover the planned legal commitments and expenditure for 2015.
written. - i voted in favour because i support increasing funding for programmes that represent the priorities of the europe 2020 strategy, namely the programme for growth, employment and competitiveness, information and communication technologies, energy security and environment and climate action. this is complemented by external policy programmes such as the european neighbourhood policy and support for countries in the union's south-eastern neighbourhood which are in the process of democratic growth and integration. i also support additional support to mitigate the impact of the russian ban on imports of european agricultural and fishery products. it should also be noted that the draft budget for 2015 represents an increase of 1,4% compared to the 2014 budget in terms of agreed payment appropriations, but also a shortfall of eur 2 billion in terms of implementation compared to 2013.
written. - although delays in payments from the european budget have become a major problem for member states, the council has proposed a small increase in the 2015 payment budget. the total proposed amount for payments in 2015 was eur 140 billion, which is only 3,3% higher than the 2014 payment ceiling. the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european union strategy for the protection of the environment against climate change (2014-2020) and the european union strategy for the protection of the environment against climate change (2014-2020). the council proposed a level of eur 145 billion for the allowable commitment and parliament proposed an increase to eur 146,4 billion to increase investment in development projects in science, research and development, job creation and tackling high unemployment, especially among young people. budgetary cuts in payment appropriations lead to disruptions in payments. the commission notes that the aid is granted to the beneficiaries of the measure, which are the beneficiaries of the measure, and that the aid is granted to the beneficiaries of the measure. this budgetary stance creates illiquidity in the member states and loses citizens' trust in the european budget and thus in the eu institutions. i supported this report on the draft general budget of the european union for 2015 as the increases necessary to meet budgetary commitments have been achieved.
written. - this year's draft general budget of the eu is designed to balance the distribution of money between commitments and payments that the eu has committed to its programmes. i support the increase of funds directed towards programmes at the heart of the europe 2020 strategy, such as horizon 2020, cosme, erasmus+, as well as the further strengthening of programmes that are key to the implementation of the union's external policy programmes european neighbourhood policy and development and humanitarian aid. as smes are the main drivers of economic growth in the eu, it is crucial to increase financial support to them as well, which will make a significant contribution to the fight against unemployment. i support and approve additional support to mitigate the effects of the russian ban on imports of certain union agricultural and fishery products. at the same time, i am pleased that the eu has recognised the importance of energy independence and synergies of all member states, and the importance of promoting renewable energy sources and energy efficiency to achieve energy security, especially in the member states that are most dependent on russian gas. the crisis in ukraine has imposed the need for stronger cooperation on all energy sources, not just gas. in view of the above, i am convinced that this draft budget proposal is the right way forward for the eu, and i have therefore supported it.
written. - i believe it is important to align the union's budget with the national budgets of the member states in order to emphasise its role in promoting growth and employment. but given the current economic situation, which requires appropriate measures and programmes to respond, i support the decision to increase funding in the 2015 eu budget for programmes promoting growth, competitiveness and employment, such as erasmus+, the social agenda or horizon 2020. in order to combat inequalities, there is a need to increase funding for programmes and initiatives such as europe for citizens, the fund for european aid to the most deprived and similar programmes. i also support the call for €203.3 million from the european neighbourhood instrument to enable the eu to meet its commitments to its eastern and southern neighbours, which are facing challenges in terms of economic and social development, immigration and stability. in order to reduce dependence on russian gas, it is important to invest in renewable energy sources to achieve energy security and to align the targets for the consumption of energy resources under horizon 2020. i support the decision to increase funding for smes, because it is their innovation that can contribute to the desired economic recovery of the eu in terms of reducing unemployment and stimulating economic growth.
written. - the draft budget proposed by the commission is 2,24% higher than the 2014 budget. this position is consistent with the need to find a solution to the recurrent payment shortfall affecting the eu budget. according to the decision of the committee on budgets, payments should be increased by eur 4 billion compared to the 2015 ceiling and commitments should also be increased, in particular for programmes such as cosme, horizon 2020, erasmus+. i believe that the eu budget complements national budgets and provides a good incentive for growth and job creation. for this reason, it should not be arbitrarily reduced, but in some areas even increased. it is wrong to see the budget as just a financial item that adds to the burden of the national budget, but as an opportunity to promote initiatives and investments that create added value in the eu as a whole. the commission has therefore decided to amend the draft budget for 2015 by adding a new item to the list of items for which the commission has already decided to approve the draft budget.
written. - i voted against the motion for a resolution of the european parliament on the council position on the draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2015 because of two points of particular concern to me. in particular, i oppose the recommendation expressed in the chapter 'addressing recurrent payment crises' where the rapporteur supports the commission's proposal to use the available funds within the 2015 payment ceiling in full, leaving no gap until the 2015 payment ceiling. the commission has also taken note of the fact that the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use (hereinafter 'the agency'), which is to be adopted by the end of 2015. on the other hand, i am concerned that all draft amending budgets should be adopted before agreement is reached on the draft budget for 2015, and i have therefore decided to vote against this proposal.
written. - i voted in favour of the draft additional protocol to the free trade agreement between the european union (and its member states) and the republic of korea, which takes account of croatia's accession to the european union and allows croatia to participate fully in the implementation of the agreement. in a time of economic globalisation and the opening up of world markets, it is of the utmost importance to ensure the sustainability and competitiveness of the economies and trade of smaller eu countries such as croatia.
done at - on 6 march 2014, the council of the european union decided, on behalf of the european union and its member states, to conclude the additional protocol to the free trade agreement signed on 15 october 2009 between the member states, of the one part, and the republic of korea, of the other part. the european parliament has given its consent to the conclusion of this treaty. on 1 july 2013, the republic of croatia acceded to the union and became its 28th member. an additional protocol between the eu and the republic of korea to take account of the accession of croatia to the eu was signed and has been provisionally applied since 1 july 2013. i supported this rapporteur because the current council decision seeks to ensure, in accordance with the act of accession of croatia to the eu, that croatia as a member will continue to participate fully in the free trade between the eu and the republic of korea and, by signing the agreement, contribute to preserving the integrity of the union's internal market. the assent of the european parliament is a mandatory component in the completion of the ratification process of the additional protocol.
written. - i welcome the adaptation of the protocol to the eu-republic of korea free trade agreement to croatia's accession to the union. although korea is not one of the largest trade partners of the republic of croatia, trade between these two countries has significant potential for growth through investment in ports and infrastructure, export of croatian products and through an increase in the number of tourists, who visited croatia last year by as much as 58%. i would like to take this opportunity to recall that this agreement was adapted 15 months after croatia's accession and to point out that many other trade agreements concluded by the eu with third countries remained unadapted, including agreements with some of croatia's most important trading partners such as bih. by acceding to the european union, croatia has taken over the contractual and trade relations that the european union has with third countries and has automatically withdrawn from the existing trade agreements with third countries. however, third countries have not automatically adapted their agreements to croatia's accession to the eu, which has caused significant damage to the croatian economy. i hope that we will vote as soon as possible on the adaptation of the remaining trade agreements between the eu and third countries, so that croatian businesses can participate on an equal footing in the world market.
written. - i would like to thank the european commission, the council and the european parliament for all the efforts made to bring the protocol to the free trade agreement between the european union and the republic of korea into force as soon as possible, taking into account the accession of croatia to the european union. the provisional application of the protocol has enabled croatian economic operators to be more competitive on the republic of korea market and to benefit from preferential customs rates. as a recent example and proof of good cooperation, i can cite the contract for the sale and distribution of croatian beer to the korean market concluded by one croatian brewery on 10 october this year. i am convinced that this is just one of the steps that will help croatia to strengthen its economy and become recognized in markets outside europe. i support the decision of the european parliament to make the application permanent.
written. - as a croatian representative in the european parliament, i support the conclusion of an additional protocol to the existing free trade agreement. the conclusion of the protocol makes croatia a beneficiary of the bilateral trade agreement between south korea and the eu, the implementation of which should contribute to market development and economic growth in both countries. the agreement commits the eu member states and the republic of korea to eliminate 98,7% of customs duties on the value of trade for industrial and agricultural products over the next 5 years. croatia made a profit of around usd 8 million in 2012, mainly from exports of radiotelephony transmitters, turbocharged engines and starch production residues to korea, while in 2013 it made a profit of usd 12 million from exports of mainly the same products, which shows an increase in exports of 50%. on the other hand, korea is the main importer of passenger cars and motor vehicles and electrical appliances. i believe that this protocol opens up many opportunities for croatia, given the size of the market there. i welcome this decision, because the fta increases the turnover of the trade balances between the beneficiary countries and thus encourages the development of both economies. i would like to take this opportunity to call on those countries which have signed a free trade agreement with the eu and have not aligned it with croatia's accession to the eu to do so.
written. - following the council's authorisation to the commission on 24 september 2012 to open negotiations with the republic of korea for the conclusion of the additional protocol to the free trade agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of korea, of the other part, it is necessary to take account of the accession of croatia to the european union (the 'protocol'). the consent of parliament is required for the conclusion of the protocol by the european union. croatia, as a new member of the union, is obliged to implement and respect all the laws and treaties that eu membership imposes, and will gladly accede to the free trade agreement between the eu member states and the republic of korea. free trade allows for a greater flow of various goods, and it develops the market and opens up new business opportunities. i support this protocol because the implementation of the said treaty will certainly benefit croatia as well as the european union. all countries within the eu have equal status, and therefore the vote on this protocol is more formal in nature and is also a symbolic act that shows the equality of all member states.
written. - i voted in favour of the protocol to the free trade agreement between the european union and the republic of korea to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union. the adoption of the protocol is necessary in order to ensure that the said free trade agreement can be applied on a lasting basis to the common market. on the other hand, as a representative of the republic of croatia, i particularly support this protocol because by ratifying it we permanently open another market to croatian entrepreneurs and investors. initiatives have already been taken in this direction, such as the recent opening of a temporary diplomatic office in south korea, focused among other things on economic diplomacy, and for this reason i fully support this new step forward in strengthening economic relations between south korea and my homeland.
written. - i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because i was thereby contributing to the call to the european commission to launch the €300 billion european investment programme as soon as possible, as the recovery from the financial crisis is still fragile and uneven. this is why it is important to insist on the sustainable and smart functioning of the economic and monetary union and to strengthen the coordination of macroeconomic and budgetary policies, alongside the euro area policy, led by the european commission. in this way, i also supported the reduction of unemployment and the strengthening of the competitiveness of member states facing the uncomfortable situation of european gdps. it is also worth stressing the need to make the recommendations of the european semester more binding and aligned with the guidelines set by the europe 2020 strategy.
the european semester plays a key role in coordinating economic and budgetary policies in the member states. this year's european semester of economic policy coordination report is most promoting job creation for the under-24 population. it also supports the eu youth guarantee and the proposed youth employment initiative, which are also key tools in the fight against the reduction of youth unemployment, which remains at a worrying level. it also supports the emphasis on policies that foster competitiveness, support investment and job creation, combat unemployment and improve the functioning of the labour market, particularly in sectors with high growth potential. the recommendations made to each individual member state should not be interpreted as criticism of the work of the government but as an effort to improve economic policy for the benefit of future generations. the commission's data show that only 10% of the 2013 country-specific recommendations have been fully implemented. it is therefore important to encourage the commission to provide concrete recommendations to member states and the eu as a whole, including those in economic adjustment programmes, aiming also at structural reforms that will result in real, sustainable and socially balanced growth, employment and increased competitiveness. i therefore support the quality report by my colleague philippe de backer.
written. - we are in a situation where member states are only applying 10-15% of the recommendations of the european semester. this is in any case insufficient given the key role played by the european semester in coordinating economic and budgetary policies in the member states, but also given that enhanced coordination of member states' macroeconomic and budgetary policies and a comprehensive policy for the euro area are necessary to achieve a stable economic and monetary union. the economic and financial crisis has led to a marked fragility of public finances in some member states. also, if some of the members do not apply the provisions of the semester, the burden is shifted to other member states which is not correct, but we also get into a situation without clear guidelines and order. i therefore support the implementation of the 2014 priorities as the focus is on policies that increase competitiveness, support job creation and combat unemployment, which are key to achieving economic progress and the functioning of the eu labour market. i also support the call for member states to ensure sufficient levels of investment in specific sectors and to start offering vocational training to develop a productive workforce.
written. - given that the economic recovery in the eu is showing signs of slowing down for the first time in two years, is very weak and uneven and must be sustained to lead to long-term growth and job creation, an ambitious initiative is needed to trigger investment across the eu in the form of the €300 billion european investment programme proposed by jean-claude juncker. i consider that the most important objectives of economic policy are to reduce unemployment and restore the competitiveness of the member states, which have themselves undertaken structural reforms in the framework of macroeconomic adjustment programmes. it should also be noted that this is necessary to ensure that the eu does not fall further behind other regions in terms of economic and investment opportunities. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the european semester and the progress made in implementing the priorities for 2014.
written. - i voted against the resolution on the european semester for economic policy coordination because i consider that it contains, among other things, recommendations which are contrary to the national interests of my country. since the beginning of my work in the european parliament, i have tried to draw the attention of my fellow members to the disastrous consequences of the eu's employment policy, which advocates greater labour mobility to tackle unemployment in the single market. the resolution on the european semester, which is a welcome development, stresses that the european union is committed to the development of a european social model, based on the principles of social cohesion and the principle of subsidiarity. i regret that some of my fellow members of parliament see nothing alarming in such a brain drain, but it has very bad demographic consequences for my country, and for that reason not only cannot i support this resolution but i would like to express my deep disappointment and my concern about such a policy. i must say here that i support some of the recommendations of the resolution, in particular those advocating the strengthening of young people's entrepreneurial skills, the removal of bureaucratic barriers and regulations that are not conducive to investment and the reduction of the tax burden on labour, but for the reasons already mentioned i cannot support this resolution.
mr. president, kobane has become a symbol, a symbol of resistance in the fight against the so-called islamic state, and such symbols of resistance give special strength to those who are fighting against a more powerful aggressor. we who still remember the war in our corner of europe also remember the heroic resistance, for example, of vukovar against a more powerful aggressor, and therefore we know how important it is that the international community shows solidarity with the victims, in this case, the people of kobane, who are victims of violence and a new form of extremism. of course, isis is a global security threat and it wants to spread not only in syria and iraq, but the idea of a caliphate goes even to southern europe - it's a crazy idea. however, the very recruitment of fighters on the european continent is already a destabilizing factor. of course, we know that isis controls not only territory but also resources, so it can also finance itself, and the fight against the islamic state has shown that it has limits in our relations with our regional partners, and i agree that we need to revise our relations with turkey, erdogan's turkey and the policy that he is leading from the balkans to the middle east. but what i want to emphasize here is that we also have to look at the humanitarian dimension, and here the european union has a leading role -- 3 billion euros is a package of aid -- from the commission, the member states. europe is providing refugees in kobane and surrounding towns with water, food and medicine. so it is a clear message to the people: you are not alone, europe is with you. i think we need to do our part, through the budget vote for financial aid for the people of kobane, and later for development.
the question he raised by raising his blue card. mr president, mr stier, i would like to ask you if you think, as i do, that the international community, which failed in the vukovar case, we know how much it failed in the srebrenica case, when tens of thousands of people died in the balkan wars, do you think that this scenario is now being repeated outside europe, and the international community is discussing it, but the question is how much it is working?
answer the question posed by raising the blue card. mr. jakovčić, i think that the international community could have done much more, that is, the danger of the islamic state has been underestimated. i also believe that the international community needs to speak with one voice, and that's why when we have situations like the policy that erdogan's turkey has been pursuing, it sets a very dangerous precedent. so we have to work on that, and europe also has to respond unanimously if we want to be effective.
mr. president, i can't help but feel that once again, we know what we don't want, we know what we want, but unfortunately, we don't know how. it seems that some of the situations we have seen in recent months and years in various parts of the world are repeating themselves. i mentioned earlier, when i asked mr. stier, does this situation remind him of what happened in vukovar, which perhaps nobody had even heard of before the conflict in the balkans, did any of you hear of srebrenica before the murder of thousands and thousands of people? i never heard of kobane until recently. i want to call on everyone here to do everything we can to make sure that innocent people, thousands, tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands, don't get hurt, because that's going to be their fate if we don't move.
mr. president, i have signed a petition along with 150,000 other christians asking for mercy for asia bibi, a catholic woman and mother of five, who was arrested in june 2009 and then sentenced to death on the false charge of blasphemy against the prophet muhammad. despite the lack of clear evidence, she has been in prison for five years, falsely accused by her neighbors who insulted her because she is a christian. asia bibi was offered freedom if she converted to islam, which she refused and publicly confessed her faith in jesus christ. the lack of respect for the rights of religious minorities in the area is also reflected in the execution of two politicians who expressed support for her. this calls for concrete action by the united nations and the european union. i ask that the persecution of christians be stopped and that asia bibi be released, because she has spent 5 years in prison for an innocent crime and should not be punished, especially not by the death penalty, for publicly professing her faith in jesus christ.
on behalf of the alde club. mr president, the assessment of experts and competent institutions is that the threat to the european union is great and that the capabilities to defend against it are very small, and according to these assessments one of the reasons is the insufficient cooperation between states and institutions in combating this phenomenon and this phenomenon should not have happened in order for cooperation between states and institutions in the field of security to develop. there was talk here about the need for preventive action in the council of europe's strategy to combat radicalism, and there was talk about the need to educate educational institutions, social and health services, religious communities to fight this problem. of course, it's easy to say, this job is very complicated, the education itself takes a long time and the implementation of what has been learned and the skills learned even longer. but even more important than that is creating the conditions where radicalism doesn't happen. radicalism of all kinds is happening in conditions of social exclusion and especially poverty in these last years of economic crisis. and so the key question is how to eradicate the conditions in which this kind of radicalism develops, but also any other radicalism, and so i remind you that a decade ago european leaders said that they had failed to integrate immigrants into their countries, even those who have lived in those countries for years or generations, and i think that the situation today is no better than in the last decade, and so i call on the council, the commission and the parliament to work to create conditions for social inclusion in europe and to eradicate poverty, which is one of the conditions and fertile ground for the growth of radicalism.
mr president, on the one hand, thousands and thousands of people want to immigrate to the european union and here realize their dreams of freedom and material prosperity. on the other hand, young people born in europe are being recruited as fighters for a terrorist organization that fights against european values themselves. at first glance, this seems to be a paradoxical situation. i think both are actually hungry - some are hungry for freedom and material prosperity, and these others are hungry for ideals. i know some will say that european fighters of the islamic state are victims of perhaps discrimination, deprivation - that certainly helps in their recruitment. however, they are not going to the islamic state to solve their material problems, but, you see, bilal bosnić, the leader of the wahhabi movement in bosnia and herzegovina who recruited over 100 fighters, said, "we believe that one day the whole world will be the islamic state". so, these twisted ideals, this fanaticism is what led him into this battle. who planted this on him and the others? i think that in addition to these questions of intelligence community affairs, security measures, which are of course necessary, we also have to answer certain foreign policy questions. so we have to ask ourselves, do we know what saudi arabia has been funding in bosnia and herzegovina, right on the border with the european union? i think it's a legitimate and important question. of course we also need to strengthen our integration policies, but religious identities are not a problem here - in croatia, a christian or a majority christian country, the islamic community is well integrated. sometimes the bigger problem is postmodern hubris that considers any public expression of faith to be retrograde. but most importantly, we need to strengthen our commitment to our european values of tolerance, values that we must stand up for if we don't want young people to go down every extreme from populism to, unfortunately, this path that leads to the islamic state.
mr. president, statistics do indicate an alarming increase in the number of fighters of european union origin fighting on the battlefields of the middle east. we're talking thousands of eu citizens, reportedly as many as a dozen islamic state forces. most european fighters are first or second generation immigrants from africa or asia. this renews the dilemma of the success of integration policies, but their failure is by no means an excuse for the crimes committed. the problem is leaving, but of course the same danger is their return from the battlefield. i also want to mention the european fighters who are often left out of the statistics. these are citizens of countries that are aspiring to join the european union and that border on the european union. this certainly poses a threat to the security of those countries or of the union as a whole. in the short term, the union should certainly coordinate national responses to these security threats. in the long term, a development strategy for the middle east and north africa is needed. military victory over dictators and terrorists alone is never enough, because it's easier to remove the top of a regime or a terrorist organization than the political, economic and social circumstances in which they've been maintained.
mr. president, according to a study by the university of london, there are currently about 3,000 foreigners from western countries active in the isis group. the military significance of western fighters in syria and iraq is not so crucial, because isis has more than 10,000 fighters in total. but their departure should be of concern to us, as should their return to european soil and the potential terrorist activities they are capable of carrying out. there are many measures that should be taken, but unfortunately, we have not taken them yet. the first thing that needs to be done in my opinion is to stop trading with the sheikhs who are funding isis and thereby allowing them to have money flowing to all of their activities. but i would like to warn that for 10 years there have been crimes against christians in iraq and syria, and the united nations and the european union are just observing and doing nothing. as we speak here, christian children in iraq and syria are crying out for their right to childhood. as we speak, christian mothers are being taken from their children. while we're having this discussion here, we're pretending that these aren't real people, that this is someone else, when in fact, while we were having this discussion, it happened to us, and i think it's time we move from words to deeds.
madam vice-president, with this speech i want to highlight a very important problem in croatia, a problem that has serious and severe consequences for the environment and the health of citizens. responsibility for this unsustainable situation lies with the refinery at bosanski brod in bosnia and herzegovina. the citizens of slavonski brod are daily victims of cross-border air pollution from the mentioned refinery owned by the russian company zarubezhneft. the measuring station in slavonski brod records high concentrations of several pollutants that put the health of citizens in the eastern part of croatia at risk and pollute its environment. given that bosnia and herzegovina has not yet ratified the agreement with the european union, i believe that political pressure is the only way to proceed. we need concrete solutions. the key is to reduce emissions of long-lived pollutants as soon as possible. the equality of all eu citizens and the provision of a healthy and sustainable environment for a healthy and quality life for all citizens should be the supreme value of the european institutions, but also the motivation for stronger and more purposeful action in addressing this serious european problem.
mr president, the food coming to the croatian market from other countries, including the european union, is much cheaper and of much lower quality than the food we produce here. the public has been particularly surprised to find that in recent days, pigmeat, which is more widely available on the market due to the russian embargo, has been frozen for several years, thawed, repackaged and subsequently frozen. it is placed on the croatian market without a slaughter date, but only with an indication of the expiry date, which is apparently fixed for each new freezing and repackaging. if we know that all relevant research shows that meat loses quality if it is dead for more than a year, it can be said that those who place meat on the croatian market up to 7 years old are committing a crime against consumers who consume this meat, without having accurate information about what they actually eat. if such products are not good for the inhabitants of other eu member states, then they are not good for croats either, and i call on the european commission to put an end to such unfair trading practices.
madam president, human rights have been violated before, and as things stand they will be violated further, perhaps worse and bloodier. what does the eu do? he signs and transmits all kinds of resolutions. if someone gets scared, then great. and if not, then nothing. the conclusion of this debate should be that all those who brutally violate human rights will either be threatened with sanctions and then strictly enforced, or the people who are subjected to violence will honestly and honestly admit that we cannot or do not want to do anything and are left to their own devices.
on behalf of the ppe club. madam president, i would like to express my solidarity with the families of the missing students, but also with all the victims of violence in mexico. we must also support the efforts to shed light on this unfortunate case, as well as the efforts of the mexican authorities. mexico needs peace and it needs the rule of law. yes, it's outside the rule of law when student organizations, so-called normalists, go to block roads, steal buses or attack businesses. but there's a lot more to the rule of law than corruption, murder, secret mass graves. so we have to go and modernize the global agreement precisely to help our friends in mexico build that rule of law and then they can ensure both peace and prosperity for all citizens of mexico. i think that is the message we need to send from the european parliament today.
written. - i voted in favour because ukraine is a priority partner country within the european neighbourhood policy and the eastern partnership, and the amendment of the regulation in question, which provides for the reduction or abolition of customs duties on goods originating in ukraine, meets and helps that country in view of the extremely difficult economic and social situation it is facing. the commission also found that the ukrainian exporting producers had significantly increased their exports to the union during the first half of 2014, which was reflected in the decrease in exports to russia. through these and many other measures, the european union demonstrates its support for and support for countries on the european continent that respect the democratic principles of the rule of law, promote respect for human and fundamental rights, and uphold the sovereignty and territorial integrity of national states.
the commission has not received any comments from interested parties on the application of the anti-dumping duty. however, in order to support political and economic stability in ukraine, the european commission has proposed to extend the application until 31 december 2015. the commission proposes to extend the application of the regulation to ensure that the agreement covers the period from 1 november 2014 to 31 december 2015. the european commission's proposal is as follows: :-to extend the autonomous trade preferences until 31 december 2015;-to insert a human rights clause allowing for the suspension or termination of preferences in the event of non-respect of democratic principles, human rights and fundamental freedoms and the rule of law;-to ensure the retroactive application of the extension of the agreement from 2 november 2014. the association agreement with ukraine ensures respect for democratic principles, human rights and fundamental freedoms, as well as respect for the rule of law, and promotes respect for the principles of sovereignty and territorial integrity, border protection, and the prevention of the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, and i fully support it.
written. - i support the proposal of the european commission to extend the application of the regulation on the reduction or elimination of customs duties on goods originating in ukraine until 31 december 2015. this extension of that regulation until the end of 2015 is only a good indication of the support of the eu to ukraine in its difficult political and economic situation. the commission also noted that the union industry was not able to obtain sufficient spare capacity to meet the demand for the product concerned. in view of the current situation in which ukraine is facing unprecedented security, political and economic challenges, parliament's timely and swift approval of the commission's proposal to extend the regulation to ukraine will only prove that the european union can act swiftly, effectively and in line with its promises to help europe as a whole. the eu is committed to achieving a closer relationship with ukraine, with a view to its political association and economic integration with the union, and ukraine is a priority partner country in the european neighbourhood and eastern partnership policy. i believe it is important to engage with ukraine and for this reason i reiterate my support for the commission's proposal.
written. the commission has also received comments from the ukrainian authorities, which have not provided any evidence to support its claim that the measures provided for in this regulation are in line with the union's policy on trade in agricultural products. ukraine is one of the main partners within the european neighbourhood policy (enp). the european union needs to be even more closely linked to ukraine, given its political situation and economic links with the eu. the reduction or abolition of customs duties will allow for an easier and faster flow of goods and thus improve ukraine's position on the european market. i believe that the human rights clause introduced into the european union by this decision will provide additional mechanisms that can improve respect for democratic principles, human rights, fundamental freedoms and the rule of law in ukraine. i would also like to say that it is the common objective of all the member states of the european union to provide assistance to ukraine, which is currently engaged in certain conflicts, in order to preserve democratic order and social stability. the european union must not allow the russian federation to undermine fundamental human rights and freedoms within any state in europe. i support this resolution because the european union aims to support the economic and political stability of ukraine in this turbulent period.
written. - i voted to grant discharge to the office of the body of european regulators for electronic communications for the financial year 2012, as measures have been taken to make the procedures, steps and work processes used by the financial beneficiaries clearer and better structured. although budget management has improved slightly, there is still room for better planning of the same, and for improving control of public procurement and recruitment procedures. i also support the improvement achieved in the office's communication with citizens.
written. - in april of this year, 30 agencies were given a discharge for the 2012 budget. the parliament nevertheless postponed the dismissal of the director of the body of european regulators for electronic communications, berec. the key arguments for postponing the granting of the discharge until october were the difficulties in implementing the activities of the authority itself, shortcomings in the recruitment procedures and the significant room for improvement identified in relation to the procurement procedures. the agency had the whole summer to find a solution to these problems and the committee on budgetary control adopted a new proposal. i supported the report and welcome the measures taken during the summer to address the problems mentioned.
written. - i support the proposal to grant discharge to the office of the european regulators for electronic communications for the financial year 2012, as all the shortcomings related to the recruitment and procurement procedures that initially delayed the granting of discharge have now been addressed. i commend the office for its efforts to address, in addition to the shortcomings mentioned, the shortcomings concerning the legality and regularity of transactions by describing clear procedures, steps and work processes in its financial and accounting manuals. the detailed internal control procedure adopted by the office to record and correct any irregular activities in a timely manner will allow for efficient work. as the body of european regulators for electronic communications was established with the aim of applying eu rules to improve the functioning of the single market, i particularly welcome a series of measures that have seen the overall progress of the office's operations. the measures to improve budget planning and tougher control of monthly and year-end payments, the recruitment of key staff, clearly defined procurement procedures, the inclusion of measurable targets to apply internal control standards relating to objectives and performance indicators, the steps taken by the office to improve communication with european citizens on the impact of its work on them, will certainly contribute to an easier execution of business tasks and a better evaluation of their business activities.
written. - in view of the difficulties the authority has had with recruitment and procurement, i can state that it has successfully used the summer months to try to resolve them and in this regard the cont committee adopted a report proposing to grant discharge to the authority. the report welcomes the measures taken to correct the deficiencies (e.g. the authority's manuals describe clear procedures, detailed steps and work processes to be used by all financial actors, with particular emphasis on the procedures related to the execution of the transfer of funds), and according to this report i support the proposal to discharge the authority from the board of european regulators for electronic communications.
written. - i voted to reject the discharge to the secretary-general of the council for the implementation of the council's budget for the financial year 2012, on the grounds that the council had not responded to the recommendations of the court of auditors which pointed out errors in the design of procurement procedures (such as the application of selection criteria) which should be used for appropriate checks and more efficient management. the cooperation provided by the council on questions of the european parliament is also questionable, given that the parliament is the only institution with the responsibility for giving discharge for the implementation of the eu budget.
written. - following the decision of parliament adopted on 3 april to postpone the discharge to the council and the european council, rapporteur tamas deutsch proposed in the second draft of his report that the discharge should be refused again because the council was ignoring questions put to it by parliament, such as questions on the costs of the europa building and the residence palace and the question on the process of modernising the administration and its measures and the impact on the council's budget. the council shall also not participate in hearings of the committee on budgetary control concerning the financial management by the council. i support the proposal to refuse to grant discharge until the council and the european council start respecting parliament's right to exercise its powers in full and to preserve transparency and democratic accountability towards eu taxpayers.
written. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the proposal for a council directive on the implementation of the european agreement between the european inland navigation association, the european shipowners' organisation and the european transport workers' union laying down certain aspects of the organisation of working time in inland navigation, mainly because the agreement allows member states and/or the social partners to decide on the criteria that are best for workers. it is of particular importance that the views, recommendations and suggestions of the actors directly involved in the field in question are taken into account, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, since they are the ones who best understand the problem and, accordingly, the most useful solutions.
written. - i support the proposal for the implementation of the european agreement concluded between the european border and coast guard association (ebu), the european shipowners' organisation (eso) and the european transport workers' federation (etf) on the establishment of certain aspects of the organisation of working time in inland navigation. i consider that the working hours of inland waterway workers are of the utmost importance for the health and safety of workers in the workplace. it is necessary to lay down minimum standards for the organisation of working time as regards daily and weekly rest periods, the numerical limits of weekly working time, annual rest periods and night-time working, with a view to achieving the best possible performance of the work. i support the working time directive because it covers specific working conditions such as the minimum daily and weekly rest periods and the maximum night working hours because of the specific working conditions and the specific characteristics of the sector. i support the council's decision that a member state is free to define any terms not defined in the agreement, in accordance with its national law and practice. member states may entrust the social partners, at their joint request, with the implementation of this directive, provided that they take all necessary measures to ensure that they are able at all times to guarantee the results set out in this directive.
written. - in the 28 eu member states, over 40 000 people work directly in inland waterway transport (iwt), of whom 31 000 are mobile workers (73%). the lack of eu laws setting the number of hours workers are allowed to work per day makes many local laws difficult for companies involved in the transport of goods and does not provide sufficient protection for workers in many cases. this agreement will further define the rights of workers, their working hours and the days they are allowed to take on leave. the maximum night and holiday working hours will be harmonised. new rules will also be introduced to protect workers and ensure their health. as one of its objectives, the eu is trying to move goods to cleaner, safer and low-energy modes of transport. together with short-haul rail and maritime transport, inland waterway transport can make a significant contribution to the sustainability of the transport system, which will have a positive impact on the european economy. for the reasons set out above, i support the european agreement concluded between the european border union (ebu), the european shipowners' organisation (eso) and the european transport workers' federation (etf) on the establishment of certain aspects of the organisation of working time in inland waterway transport.
written. twenty-five years have passed since a historic event that marked a turning point, a new beginning and a european future for many member states. human courage has succeeded in overcoming the concrete blocks and has set in motion processes of which many citizens, not just german citizens, can be proud. unfortunately, today we are witnessing some new "walls" that are not exclusively concrete, but at least equally effective in keeping many people away from their basic rights. the berlin wall serves as a symbol of the breaking down of barriers among people who have come together to realize their rights, but it should also be a reminder and an inspiration to all who are able to decide that fundamental human rights are no longer threatened by any physical, economic or security divides. twenty-five years after the berlin wall fell and the promise of freedom for millions of people, we cannot allow some new "walls" to keep millions more trapped in poverty and hopelessness.
the fall of the berlin wall on 9 november 1989 ended the bloc division in europe and made possible the reunification of germany. the democratic transition has begun in central and eastern europe, and the lives of today's generation have been radically changed. there is a wide range of political and sociological interpretations of the causes, consequences and significance of the fall of the wall and the collapse of communism. the most important aspect is that the process has been launched towards the realization of the freedom and democracy that the peoples of central and eastern europe dreamed of, who were, by historical circumstances, part of the former communist bloc. the way is also open for the enlargement of the european union. croatia also became part of the continental political project in 2013. membership of the european family was achieved after demanding reforms, but above all thanks to the sacrifices of croatian defenders in the patriotic war. these days also marks the 23rd anniversary of the fall of vukovar - the city symbol of croatian freedom. in view of the fact that 2014 also marks the 100th anniversary of the outbreak of the first world war and the 75th anniversary of the outbreak of the second world war, which brought the greatest tragedies to mankind, it is of the utmost importance to put an end to the hybrid aggression against ukraine that undermines the fundamental values of the global order and international law. the creation of new frozen conflicts could lead to divisions that return europe to the time before 1989.
written. the fall of the berlin wall 25 years ago was a moment of optimism for me as a young man and for my entire generation. new opportunities such as public speaking and freedom of movement and expression have been extremely stimulating across europe. the fall of the berlin wall has led to the construction and restoration of democracies in eastern and south-eastern europe, which has opened up a vast space for the development of civil society, the economy and citizenship. although yugoslavia was not behind the iron curtain, the cold war was its reality. as a buffer zone between east and west, it felt locally the omnipresent global threats. is there still anyone in europe today who thinks about building nuclear shelters? for us, it was just a regular thing. then and now, in the region and in the world, there are forces constantly present who want to build walls. it's not just physical walls, but also various energy, cultural and financial walls of blackmail. sometimes it seems easier to build walls than to build social inclusion. the european union has great potential and power to prevent conflicts in its neighbourhood and to connect states and societies at all levels. the memory of this momentous event of the fall of the berlin wall should be an example and an inspiration to all generations that freedom is the right of every individual not only in our community but also in the whole world.
written. the fall of the berlin wall, the most powerful symbol of the collapse of the eastern bloc, radically changed the world, but also the world public's view of communism and the communist system and created the conditions for democratization and the removal of the iron curtains from the north to the south of europe. coming from croatia, which was under communism for 45 years, i sympathize with and understand the plight of people who lived under that totalitarian system throughout central and eastern europe. the following years saw the collapse of the soviet union and the sfr yugoslavia, and numerous nations gained independence, while the revolutions of 1989 marked a change in the balance of power as well as the beginning of a post-communist era and democracy. in most of the new states, the governments are engaged in establishing a stable market economy, and croatia is at the same time facing war and aggression, while numerous fallen defenders have embedded their lives in the foundations of modern croatia. it is a pity that today there are politicians who look back with nostalgia on that authoritarian system. in the light of the european parliament's resolutions on the need for international condemnation of the crimes of totalitarian communist regimes, i call on the commission to persevere in condemning those who still today glorify and highlight the symbols of totalitarian systems, including communism, taking into account the evil and injustice that system has brought to citizens throughout europe and beyond.
mr president, while welcoming the commissioners, i would like to mention in the discussion of the northern ireland peace process two other important agreements that have ended conflicts in two other european countries. the dayton and erdut agreements marked the end of the war in bosnia and herzegovina and my homeland croatia. summing up their similarities and differences, i would say that both agreements brought peace, but the erdut agreement ensured the full integration of the speech area, the constitutional and legal order of the country, while dayton unfortunately did not allow the construction of a unified and functional state. by the erdut agreement between croatia and serbia, the croatian territory of the danube was peacefully integrated with the mediation of the international community. it was a sort of introduction to croatia's european future. its success, apart from peaceful reintegration, is represented by the fact that over two-thirds of the serbian population remained to live in the mentioned area. that is why i want the spirit of the erdut agreement, as well as the good friday agreement, these examples of win-win concepts in areas affected by long-standing conflicts to be reflected in further agreements between, for example, belgrade and pristina or why not moscow and kiev.
mr president, there is no alternative to peace, there is no alternative to dialogue. diversity of life, the richness of actually living in diversity, the strength of tolerance, all these are terms that i used in the 1990s when the area where i live was, you know, the great wars. there are religious, linguistic intolerance today, but i believe in the courage of the people of northern ireland. i believe in the courage of these european institutions of ours who have done so much for northern ireland and i believe that this resolution is intended to reward diversity, to reward the courage of people who are for tolerance and to reward all those people who want peace and dialogue in northern ireland. so i call with all my heart on everyone in northern ireland to stand with us and to stand with this resolution.
on behalf of the verts/ale club. madam vice-president, commissioner hahn, ladies and gentlemen, i express my deep concern at the problems that have arisen in the exclusive economic zone of the republic of cyprus and have caused the interruption of the negotiations initiated under the auspices of the united nations. in accordance with the values of the european union and the un convention on the law of the sea, i call for a peaceful settlement of the dispute in the context of the new phase of the unification negotiations and the creation of a positive climate for both sides. the investigation of potential oil and gas deposits in cypriot waters is of common interest to the greek and turkish sides, inter alia, because the consequences of the adverse environmental effects may be felt throughout the island. i therefore propose that a solid basis be laid in this direction for future negotiations in order to rise above particular interests and thus build mutual trust for the benefit of all inhabitants regardless of ethnic or cultural diversity, which has always been and is the recognizable wealth of cyprus and thus of european civilization itself. the continuation of negotiations and the finding of a satisfactory solution for all parties is in the strategic interest of both the european union and the republic of turkey.
mr president, i agree with what mr zeller said at the beginning. it's a real shame we're having this discussion so late at night. but on the other hand, it is good that we have this debate at all and that we will bring the appropriate resolution to the european parliament, because i think it sends the right message that the international community must not forget the situation, the civil war, the victims of the civil war and the humanitarian crisis in south sudan. namely, the fact is that other security threats and situations, such as the threat of the islamic state or such as the ebola epidemic in west africa, have in some ways overshadowed this situation in south sudan and if you want to say, reduced the attention of the international community. and that's why it needs to be fixed now, because there is a humanitarian catastrophe in south sudan. so, not only a crisis, but a real catastrophe, when we see that two million people have had to leave their homes. we see the military units getting out of control, not to mention the famine and all the other issues that were mentioned before. so we have the youngest country in the world, south sudan, but it currently exists only on paper, because really the state institutions on the ground cannot provide those minimal functions that the state has to provide to its citizens. so europe and the international community that supported the creation of an independent south sudan have one additional responsibility at this point, and i agree that they need the necessary additional measures, we could summon them, deliver and enable the delivery of humanitarian aid and stop the arms trade.
written. south sudan is the youngest country in the world. and its population is young, half of them just children. but these children, instead of going to school, are now exposed to violence, displaced from their homes, recruited into the military and forced into armed conflict. today, children in south sudan are facing starvation, water shortages, and death from preventable diseases if the conditions in refugee camps were better. south sudan is today hard hit by conflict in which thousands have disappeared and hundreds of thousands have been displaced. fleeing terror, refugees have sought refuge in neighboring countries. hundreds of thousands of people are in refugee camps, which have been flooded by the rains. cholera, typhus, and other diseases broke out, and in some camps, as media reports stated, mothers lined up to bury their children. because of the conflict, the fields are not sown and the land is threatened with famine. according to un estimates, by the end of this year, a third of the world's population will be facing starvation. the people of south sudan need our help. the children of south sudan need our help. i firmly believe that the eu will not fail to help and that we will not let them down, and i therefore support this statement by vice-president federica mogherini.
mr president, the integration of the six western balkan countries is of course in the interest of those countries, but it is also in the interest of the european union. these are countries that are geographically within the european union and border five european union member states. however, these countries have a very large number of people living in several countries and are very interconnected. in order for this integration, which is therefore in the interests of both the european union and these countries, to be successful, a plan must be drawn up for a comprehensive approach to the integration of these countries into the european union so that, after this high-quality integration, we can finally achieve an area of stability, peace and prosperity, which, i repeat, is also in the interest of these countries, but also of the other member states of the european union.
mr president, gender equality in european politics has so far largely rested on party quotas of social democratic options. i wish that quotas would stop being a topic and that women would be high on the lists because they deserve it and because their work is recognized. in croatia, a debate is underway on changes to the electoral legislation that would introduce forty percent gender quotas on party lists. any party that fails to meet the quota will be disqualified from the election. it has been shown that countries where women have equal participation in all spheres of society are more advanced and more successful. the quota is just the first step to bring about positive change, but i also advocate for additional mechanisms to ensure a more equal distribution of women on the list. we need to stop pretending that women are unwilling or unable to influence decision-making processes and to raise awareness of the fact that swift and effective mechanisms must be put in place to ensure their equal participation in society.
mr president, moldova today is getting a new perspective, but we have to say right from the start that everything will depend primarily on the moldovan citizens, on the leadership of the moldovan state, because we only provide one perspective, we provide a value proposition, we provide a market, we provide what we think is good for that part of europe and i am sure that the moldovan citizens will take this offer of ours seriously. of course, in a way, it's also a kind of recognition of the reforms, the progress that's been made recently in moldova and all that that means as security and stability in that part of europe. however, two outstanding problems should be highlighted. one is of course political, and that is all that this will bring in the coming months and years and that is where the european union absolutely must be actively involved, because i believe that only internal moldovan forces will succeed in solving this problem. i think we're gonna have to be as cooperative as possible with our friends here with whom we're signing the agreement. and the second problem is of course the agricultural problem, i know their wines very well and i know that they will not have an easy time on the european market, but the european union must also help moldova in this context.
mr president, first of all i would like to welcome the speaker of the moldovan parliament, mr igor corman, who is with us. i would like to congratulate our rapporteur, mr petras auštrevičius, on the excellent resolution he has prepared. i also welcome commissioner hahn, whose first report is this one, and i am pleased that moldova was the first country he chose for his visit. i would like to point out that for the credibility of the european union's foreign policy and our global role, it is precisely the portfolio of commissioner hahn that is crucial to our policy, to our model of attractiveness, to our model of transformation of the countries that want to join us. in this context, this dialogue today on the association agreement with moldova is of the utmost importance. it is important as a test, as we have to see it in the broader effort of moldova to be more than just part of the european neighbourhood. we are very well aware of its ambition to be part of the enlargement process. therefore, in this new directorate called dg near, moldova clearly wants to move from no to enlargement. what we have to highlight is the context in which all this is happening, we are monitoring the situation and the aggression against ukraine. the frozen conflict in transnistria is extremely important for our broader view of policy towards moldova. it is important that we stand united here and allow the moldovan people to decide autonomously on their strategic orientation, and in this regard i expect the victory of pro-european forces in the elections in a few days.
commissioner, moldova is an eastern partnership country with which the european union has signed a detailed comprehensive free trade agreement, and it is also the first eastern partnership country with the conditions for visa liberalisation fulfilled. in the light of current developments in the region, where the three eastern partnership countries are moving closer to russia, ukraine is in a state of war and georgia is confronting pro-european forces, moldova is becoming increasingly important for the european union's engagement in its eastern neighbourhood. moldova can become a success story for the european union. however, there is still much work to be done in chisinau, building an independent judiciary, success in the fight against corruption, diversification of the economy, defining relations with neighbours, etc. but they have business in brussels, more successful mediation in solving problems. i hope that the very important upcoming elections will allow us to continue our partnership, because the future relationship will depend very much on the results of the elections and the composition of the new government. moldova has often been blocked by political crises, but now would be the worst possible time for it to happen again.
written. - i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution which states that the parliamentary immunity of ms ana gomes should not be waived, because members of the european parliament cannot be subject to judicial proceedings for the opinions they express. the european parliament should therefore ensure the independence of its members in the performance of their duties.
written. - in view of the factual situation regarding the criminal proceedings in which the public prosecutor of the investigation and criminal division in lisbon applied for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of the mep ana gomes, on the grounds of alleged defamatory statements made during a televised debate, and taking into account the laws in force and applicable to all meps, i support the report by heidi hautala that the immunity of the mep gomes is not waived as such a procedure is in accordance with eu law under article 8 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the eu and the principles thereof. the content of this case, in which the mp ana gomes sharply criticizes the work of the minister of defence in relation to the naval construction site during a televised debate, is not a criterion for the waiver of immunity, because today the european union as a modern democracy requires not only political debates in parliaments but also through the media, and also mps can freely raise questions of public interest without restricting comments, and the practice of the eu is not to criminalise the processing of such cases. furthermore, in a 21st century society, we are free to engage in dialogue and meaningful debate and to express our opinions, particularly if it is in the public interest and i believe that this case does not meet the criteria for waiver of immunity.
written. - the report deals with the immunity of congresswoman gomes, who is the subject of a criminal complaint related to alleged libel. the lady made a comment on portuguese television in which she was critical of the minister of defence, in connection with the case of the privatization of the shipyards in portugal. since comments made by members of the european parliament outside parliament may be qualified as immunity if they have a direct and manifest link with their duties as members of the european parliament, i voted in favour of the immunity of ms gomes, since she was invited to the television programme in question in her capacity as a member of the european parliament and since it was on this very subject that ms gomes had previously put a written question to the commission.
written. - i voted to approve an irish application for a financial contribution from the egf to help the dismissed workers of andersen ireland limited. i believe, above all, that the european commission's assessment was carried out in a short timeframe, which is a prerequisite for the eu authorities to act quickly and effectively towards the reintegration of dismissed workers into the labour market. the redundancies in the company will further affect the unemployment rate of the region concerned, which is twice the national average, where andersen ireland was the main employer. the redundancies are also linked to the difficult situation facing the european jewellery sector, which is being overtaken by asian production as a result of global trends in globalisation. i therefore support the aid, which, with the support of the egf, will be directed towards alleviating unemployment and the decline of the local and regional economy. in addition to that, i consider appropriate the support that the irish authorities, before the decision to grant the egf, have launched with the implementation of services tailored to the needs of the affected workers, also targeted at the younger part of the population.
written. - i supported the report of my colleague ivan stefanc. globalization has a number of positive and negative elements. major structural changes in the world's trade flows brought about by globalization often result in the laying off of workers. i welcomed the proposal of the european commission and the council to grant financial assistance to 171 laid-off employees of andersen ireland limited, which requested eur 1 501 200 to provide support to former employees. career planning support activities, training for other jobs as well as support for self-employment are quality measures to help workers. i must stress that the redundancies in the jewellery, imitation jewellery and related products sector are the result of market changes caused by the increase in imports, mainly from asia, and that the unemployment rate in the southern and eastern region of ireland (39,3%) is twice the european average (19%). although the criterion for obtaining funding is the dismissal of 500 workers, we must take into account that these changes will have serious consequences for regional employment and the local economy.
written. - given that ireland has submitted an application to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund for the 171 redundancies in andersen ireland limited, and that this application has been accepted in accordance with the intervention criteria set out in the egf regulation, i consider it necessary to support the mobilisation of the fund. although fewer than the required 500 workers have been made redundant, on the basis of exceptional circumstances and the exceptionally strong impact on employment and the local/regional/national economy of andresen ireland, which was the largest employer in an area with an unemployment rate twice the national average, the application has been approved and payment of eur 1 501 200 from the egf reserve has been determined. for all these reasons, i support this request to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund.
written. - the arguments in this case were that there were extraordinary circumstances, given that the layoffs of 171 workers have a serious financial effect on employment and the local and regional economy. the european parliament has proposed that the globalisation adjustment fund be mobilised in an amount representing 60% of the total cost of the proposed intervention. i'm supporting a fund that helps workers find new skills after job losses caused by changes in global trade patterns. typical examples are the closure of large companies, the relocation of companies or the global financial and economic crisis. however, i do not think that the european globalisation adjustment fund is an appropriate and well-considered way of bringing about economic growth and job creation, or of effectively integrating displaced workers into the labour market. that is why i abstained.
written. - i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund in the case of the greek sprider stores, as the above-mentioned redundancies will further worsen the unemployment situation in greece, which is still deeply affected by the consequences of the world economic and financial crisis. the european union is also committed to supporting the development of the labour market in the countries of origin and the host countries. i also support the fact that the greek authorities, with co-financing from the egf, will step up to meet the unemployed young people, providing them with additional education and training, because they are one of the drivers of the recovery. the commission has also received comments from the greek authorities, which have not provided any evidence that the egf is being used to finance the restructuring of the company.
written. - i supported the report of reporter victor negrescu. in a world of market economies and globalisation, many companies and their workers are affected by structural reforms aimed at eliminating unprofitability and misallocation of resources. i supported the proposal of the european commission and the council to grant financial assistance to the workers made redundant in the sprider stores factory in the amount of eur 7 290 900. the process of helping dismissed persons to seek employment and counselling is very useful, as are the proposed measures of retraining and start-up aid. the commission notes that the greek authorities have not provided any evidence that the greek economy is in a difficult situation. faced with a difficult economic situation and a large increase in unemployment we must refocus on mitigating the crisis.
written. - having regard to the request made by greece to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund in respect of the 761 dismissed workers of sprider stores s.a. and to the fact that this request was accepted in accordance with the intervention criteria laid down in the egf regulation, i consider that the mobilisation of the fund should be supported. the commission also notes that the greek authorities have not provided any evidence that the greek economy is in a difficult situation, and that the greek authorities have not provided any evidence that the greek economy is in a difficult situation. furthermore, i welcome the fact that the greek authorities will provide education, employment and training under this initiative for 550 young people with the allocated funds of eur 7 290 900, which is a step forward in reducing youth unemployment in the european union.
written. - the case of the greek sprider stores factory is linked to the dismissal of 761 workers, for which the european parliament has proposed to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund to the tune of 60% of the total cost of the proposed intervention. while i strongly support union measures aimed at creating jobs and economic growth and development, i do not consider the european globalisation adjustment fund to be an appropriate or well-considered way of achieving economic growth and job creation, or the effective integration of displaced workers into the labour market. that is why i abstained.
written. - i voted in favour of the conclusion of an association agreement between the european union and the republic of moldova because it gives the latter a new perspective. it should be stressed that much of the near future will depend on the moldovan people and the moldovan leadership, as the european union only provides a perspective; values and a broad market are just some of the eu's strengths. i hope that the citizens of moldova will take into account this concrete and meaningful alternative that is being offered to them. to that end, it is worth noting the progress and reforms made in moldova in recent years. this has a positive impact on the security and stability of this part of europe. however, two problems need to be highlighted and tackled: the political problem, which concerns transnistria, and the agricultural problem, which concerns wine and fruit production. in both cases, the eu's involvement appears to be strong.
written. - i applaud the work of representative auštrevičius and the foreign affairs committee who have been invested in the drafting of this document. i support the ratification of the association agreement by the european parliament, in order to strengthen the european perspective of the republic of moldova in accordance with the principles of democracy, respect for fundamental freedoms, minority rights and the rule of law. i believe that in the context of the upcoming parliamentary elections to be held on 30 november 2014, which i believe will confirm moldova's pro-european orientation, it is important to send a message because the association agreement has economic, political and strategic value. the european union is thus proving itself to be an actor that offers its partners the opportunity for a democratic future within europe, provided that the necessary reforms are implemented. the european parliament's endorsement of the association agreement, together with the comprehensive trade agreement, will contribute to further european reforms in moldova. therefore, i call on all members to ratify the agreement on the association of moldova and i support the territorial integrity of moldova and the application of the agreement to the entire territory of moldova, including transnistria.
written. - the association agreement between the european union and the republic of moldova is a step closer to mutual integration and closer ties, and the ratification of the agreement by the parliament of the republic of moldova itself sends a clear message to its citizens about the commitment to shared values. i therefore support this agreement, including the comprehensive free trade part, because i believe it will serve the common good and give the responsible institutions the necessary impetus and tools to pursue reforms. the territorial integrity, respect for minority rights and autonomy of the two regions, transnistria and gagauzia, are important preconditions for economic growth and prosperity of the whole area. the european union should therefore play an important role in seeking a constructive solution for all parties. in addition, i express my concern about the presence of a risk of proliferation of weapons in certain parts of the country and look forward to the early implementation of the agreement. i also take this opportunity to congratulate and wish success to my colleague igor scholtes of the greens/efa group who will lead the european parliament delegation to observe the parliamentary elections on 30 november in the republic of moldova.
written. - i supported the conclusion of an association agreement between the european union, on the one hand, and the republic of moldova, on the other. i would remind you that moldova signed an association agreement with the european union in november 2013, which includes a free trade agreement. the provisional application of the agreement started on 1 september 2014. it is necessary to emphasise that the stabilisation and association agreement and the deep and comprehensive free trade area (dcfta) are important for relations with moldova, which has a european perspective. the eu's accession is conditional on respect for democracy, fundamental freedoms, the rule of law and the continuation of key reforms. it is very important to continue the fight against corruption, work on the independence of the judiciary and freedom of the media. the crisis in ukraine has certainly affected the situation in moldova as well as the russian ban on imports of moldovan products. the union's macro-financial assistance should be directed to the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance. i believe that respecting these processes and the agreement is a priority that should not be neglected. implementing reforms, organizing within one's own country can bring about betterment for the entire region.
written. - given the sudden change in geopolitical relations due to the situation in ukraine and the role of russia in that situation, and also the fact that moldova has implemented significant reforms and strengthened its relationship with the eu, i consider it necessary to support this proposal for the conclusion of an association agreement between the european union and the republic of moldova. the geographical, historical, economic and cultural links between moldova and the eu facilitate the process of political association and economic integration, and the growing political and other ties will lead to greater stability and strengthening of civil society in moldova, as well as respect for human rights, fundamental freedoms and the rule of law, i.e. the values on which the european union is founded. but it is also necessary to take into account russia's concerns about bringing its neighbours closer to the eu. this is a sign of european solidarity with the moldovan people, and this agreement is not against anyone, but for the freedom of moldova, which has unfortunately been the victim of the molotov-ribbentrop pact all along, and is therefore a historic milestone for the future of moldova today. i am voting in favour of the conclusion of the association agreement between the european union and the republic of moldova.
written. - i voted in favour of this non-legislative resolution containing proposals related to judicial reform, transparency and alignment of moldovan legislation with the eu acquis. i support the need to create a transparent business and investment environment and appropriate regulatory reforms to allow companies and investors that meet eu standards to trade freely within the eu market, as well as to allow eu companies access to the moldovan market.
written. - i voted in favour of the association agreement between the european union and the european atomic energy community, on the one hand, and the republic of moldova, on the other, because it opens up a concrete european perspective for this part of eastern europe. this agreement will enhance and define investment, economic growth and eu market access opportunities for moldova, which will of course be subject to strict rules and procedures. the eu has also adopted a number of measures to improve the quality of the legal framework for the eu's financial services sector. the agreement also contributes to positive effects for the eu, which will be provided with a simplified and better investment climate for investments in the country concerned. establishing regular bilateral relations between the eu and third countries, as is the case with moldova, and in accordance with the underlying treaties, extending the area of cooperation and peace that the european union aspires to and strongly advocates. while no further enlargements of the eu are foreseen in the coming multiannual period, there is a need to strengthen and improve cooperation with the eastern and southern neighbours.
written. - i have supported the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the association agreement between the european union and the european atomic energy community and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of moldova, of the other part. given that the agreement is provisionally applicable as of 1 september this year, i consider that the eu-moldova comprehensive free trade area is of the utmost importance for strengthening the political association and economic integration between the eu and moldova. following the eu member state and eastern partnership state summit in vilnius, where moldova initialled its eu association agreement, it was signed on 27 june 2014 and ratified by moldova five days later. the agreement will allow for an increase in exports to the eu by 16% and imports from the eu by 8% as well as an overall increase in annual gdp by 5.4%. russia, as in the case of ukraine, is trying to stop further progress of the republic of moldova through a trade embargo, banning the import of moldovan products and increasing its influence in the autonomous regions of moldova. the upcoming elections on 30 november 2014 will provide moldova with a chance to reaffirm its pro-european stance.
written. - i support the conclusion of an association agreement between the european union and the republic of moldova as a further impetus to the reform processes in that country, especially in the context of the current situation in eastern europe. i am committed to an open door policy towards all states that readily welcome the rule of law and fundamental human values, while taking care to maintain their historical and economic links with other actors in the region. the republic of moldova has a long-standing commitment to the rule of law, democracy and respect for human rights. the entry into force of the said agreement provides an additional opportunity to develop all the potentials that the country is rich in. its greatest wealth is first and foremost in its people and cultural diversity, and i believe that the objectives of the agreement will be useful in reaching consensus on all the questions that remain open. the european union should be a constant support to the republic of moldova in its progressive and democratic endeavours, but at the same time be cautious in its approach to the currently complex context of this part of europe.
written. - given that this agreement establishes the association of the republic of moldova with the european atomic energy community and its member states, and that this represents a new stage in the development of such relations aimed at creating the strongest possible links, economic integration and political association, i consider it necessary to support this proposal for association between moldova and the european atomic energy community. the agreement itself provides not only for sectoral cooperation based on the implementation of reforms, the achievement of economic recovery and growth and cooperation in areas such as public administration reform, environmental protection, transport, agriculture, education, consumer protection, etc., but also for an institutional framework covering various forums for cooperation and dialogue and includes provisions to address any open trade issues, compliance issues and dispute settlement. in view of the above, i consider this agreement to be useful and i will support it.
written. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that stronger political and economic ties will contribute to greater stability and prosperity for the whole of the european continent. i support the need to create a transparent business and investment environment and appropriate regulatory reforms to allow companies and investors that meet eu standards to trade freely within the eu market, as well as to allow eu companies access to the moldovan market. the union's contribution to the implementation of the agreement should be limited to the minimum necessary to ensure the full implementation of the agreement.
written. - i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the northern ireland peace process because i believe that additional efforts are needed to stabilise the political situation and to consolidate the peace process. although the economy and unemployment have improved in recent years and the country's international standing has risen, we have witnessed frequent political crises, problems with the implementation of signed peace agreements, and violent, criminal, and anti-social activities by extremist groups. therefore, i believe that multilateral negotiations are needed to overcome the current political deadlock, to resolve the open issues with the aim of strengthening the democratic foundations of institutions and tolerance, and to overcome regional social and economic inequalities.
written. - i supported the joint motion for a resolution that all parties involved in the northern ireland peace process work constructively towards a lasting resolution of the conflict and the full implementation of the good friday agreement, the aim of which was to achieve a lasting peace. i believe that the initiative to call for multilateral negotiations, in order to overcome the current impasse, is of paramount importance to reach an agreement that will support the functioning and stability of democratic institutions in northern ireland. i would remind you that the peace process in northern ireland has attracted over $2 billion in foreign investment over the last five years. i stress the importance of support from the eu's european regional development fund, and in particular the €150 million allocated to the peace programme, to address priority issues in northern ireland and the irish border area for the benefit of all. i am concerned about the criminal activities of extremist groups that are causing a slowdown in economic development, especially an increase in unemployment. i would like to emphasise once again the complexity of the situation itself and to stress parliament's readiness to provide any form of support that the parties involved consider would help the peace process. i am convinced that this resolution will accelerate the implementation of the peace process in northern ireland so that we can start working as soon as possible to improve relations between communities and to support economic and social development.
written. - i have supported the motion for a joint resolution that all parties involved in the northern ireland peace process work towards a permanent solution to the conflict and the full implementation of the good friday agreement. i believe this resolution will be a factor in accelerating the peace process. it is important to note the importance of negotiations to resolve the difficulties in the agreements and to overcome the current impasse. i would like to recall the very important support of the european regional development fund of the european union, through which 150 million euros were allocated to the peace programme. the programme was created to address the issues, the problems in northern ireland. the establishment of peace in northern ireland has raised over $2 billion in foreign investment over the past five years. accelerating the peace process is essential for the development and better life of the people of northern ireland.
written. - as we are still witnessing the conflict in northern ireland, specifically northern ireland and the border area of ireland, it is very important that we confirm this resolution, that stability is achieved in order to promote peace, and economic and social progress. the existing programmes, including the mir iii programme which in 2007 presented a new strategic approach to maximising the impact of funding, are a clear indication that work is underway to address this issue. i support this report because i believe we must ensure that the northern ireland peace process is recognised by europe and that the european union provides the necessary support to resolve this sensitive issue, and i welcome any peaceful solution that would represent stability and growth in the european union. furthermore, i believe that we all as part of the european union must take active action to ensure that any conflict within the union, including the conflict in northern ireland, is fully contained.
written. - i supported this resolution as the political institutions established under the belfast agreement have been working successfully for a long time and the progress achieved so far represents a strong and positive example of conflict resolution based on partnership, consent, the principles of equal treatment, equality and mutual respect, which has had a positive impact not only on political relations in northern ireland but also beyond. the peace process requires continuous efforts and i therefore stress the need to further promote reconciliation and improve relations between communities and to support economic and social development in order to consolidate the peace process.
written. - i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on turkey's activities which create tensions in cyprus' exclusive economic zone because the motion stresses the need to respect international law, the sovereignty of individual states, and the un convention on the law of the sea. the eu has also been active in the field of human rights since the early 1990s, and has been active in the field of human rights since the beginning of the crisis. i also support the right of cyprus to exploit and explore natural resources in its exclusive economic zone and a lasting political solution to end the acute situation.
written. - i supported the motion for a resolution to call on the government of turkey to act in accordance with international law and to apply the declaration of the european community and its member states of 21 september 2005, including the provision that recognition of all member states is a necessary part of the accession process. i consider that the signing of the un convention on the law of the sea (unclos), as part of the acquis of the european union, is a priority for the turkish government and should therefore respect the sovereignty of the member states over their territorial waters. i warned of the complexity of the situation resulting in the violation of cyprus's sovereign rights and the need to find a solution that would benefit both countries. the resolution adopted will help to find a comprehensive solution to the cyprus problem and to efforts to stabilise the region.
written. - cyprus has always been a sensitive subject, primarily because of its division into two parts by the so-called 'green line' (1974) which divides the island into a greek and a turkish part. the turkish cypriot side started drilling a little over a month ago with a research vessel to test the hydrocarbon reserves in the sea within the borders of the cypriot economic zone. however, the cypriot government has declared these explorations illegal and warned of serious consequences, as turkey has extended the project to parts of cyprus' exclusive economic zone. i support this report primarily because of the violation of the laws and regulations that were passed by the division of the island by the un. in view of the existing open conflicts in various parts of the world, care should be taken to avoid conflict here, both because of the human casualties and the economy and economy of cyprus and the possible impact on the european union.
written. - i voted for the motion on the humanitarian situation in south sudan because it is the same most unstable country in the world where the highest degree of humanitarian crisis has been declared, which could further worsen. i strongly condemn the mass executions, the attacks on civilians, the high level of human rights violations, ethnic violence, brutal sexual violence, and a host of other inhumane acts that take human lives. the international community needs to take a strong and decisive stance on the humanitarian crisis in south sudan, first to ensure the most urgent humanitarian needs and then to find a political and democratic solution to the conflict. a transparent and credible investigation is necessary to enable institutional reforms to be launched and peaceful coexistence to be established. given that the country is rich in oil and natural resources, i believe that the revenues that can be generated from them should be directed towards improving living standards and establishing a system of the rule of law.
written. - i supported the statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, federica mogherini, on the 'humanitarian situation in south sudan' presented by commissioner johannes hahn. the fact that since december 2013 in south sudan 1.9 million people have fled their homes is frightening. more than 470,000 people have fled south sudan and are seeking refuge in neighboring countries. children are particularly vulnerable. more than 500,000 children have been displaced, and 50,000 more face hunger, disease and death. the most disturbing data is that 9,000 children were recruited. floods and droughts have disrupted crops and reduced food production, leaving 7 million people in food insecure conditions. i believe that further humanitarian assistance is needed in south sudan and that the distribution of basic food supplies, shelter, medical supplies, medicines and care materials is ensured. it is important to note that the eu provided eur 254 million, or 38% of total international assistance to south sudan, and the commission provided an additional eur 20 million to help neighbouring countries that have taken in and saved the lives of displaced persons and refugees.
written. - i express concern about the tragic situation in south sudan where the humanitarian crisis is not abating. alarming data indicate the need for concrete action by international institutions, including the european union, as neglecting the problem will result in even worse consequences. because of the intensity of the conflict, already 3.5 million people are at risk of dying from malnutrition, and more than 200,000 children under the age of five will be malnourished this year alone. with the convention on the rights of the child exactly 25 years ago, we committed ourselves to do everything in our power to protect and provide a proper environment for their unhampered development and a safe childhood. representatives of the international community on the ground announce that the survival of the refugees will depend entirely on the international community, bearing in mind the fact that the war has destroyed agricultural production. it is also necessary to note that the exploitation of oil and the sharing of revenues alone are not a guarantee of peace, sustainable development and the well-being of the population. aware of the situation and the fact that south sudan relies on oil for about 90% of its income and is unable to exercise transparent control over the management of its resources, which is why a large part of the funds is spent on the purchase of weapons, i call for stronger international control and the development of alternative solutions to ensure a dignified existence for the people of south sudan.
written. - the humanitarian situation in south sudan, the position of the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, federica mogherini, i supported because i believe that the situation in south sudan is really serious and there is definitely a need to help people who are affected by war and poverty, hungry, thirsty, sick and on the verge of death. the facts and figures about the condition that people, especially children, face every day are frightening. from an early age, children lack the proper conditions for life. many face starvation and disease, and those who are not afflicted by disease are conscripted as child soldiers. the civil war has left a difficult situation in the country, and south sudan is one of the most underdeveloped and poorest regions, attracting large numbers of refugees. the humanitarian aid is certainly needed by the neighbouring countries which have taken in the people of south sudan who have no conditions for a normal life in such a difficult situation. with all the troubles, various situations with natural disasters make life difficult and attempts to progress to a dignified life. the postwar situation is certainly difficult, and they need financial help to help at least partially the people who are in dire need of help now. humanitarian aid will provide some of the food and medicine that is a priority in a situation like this.
written. the crisis in south sudan is caused by a conflict between the government and opposition forces. the conflict has been going on for over 10 months (since 13 december 2013). the background to the crisis is the conflict between president salva kiir and the leader of the opposition (former vice president) riek machar. it all started with riek machar's call to boycott the national liberation council. after machar said on 22 december 2013 that he would be the leader of the state and that his forces would control the state's oil fields, the crisis escalated into an ethnic conflict that currently has more than 10,000 victims. over half a million people have fled their homes. people fleeing to un camps where ethnic filtration is done for security reasons creating a humanitarian catastrophe that could escalate, leading to further casualties. i support this report. there are a lot of casualties, humanitarian aid is desperately needed by the people. because of the war, the entire economy of the region has been brought to a standstill, people have no conditions for life.
written. - 3.8 million south sudanese are in need of humanitarian assistance, 1.4 million have been displaced and over 450,000 are seeking refuge in neighbouring countries. i voted in favour of the resolution because it strongly condemns the continuing hostilities in south sudan, the mass killings and the violation of basic human rights. i wholeheartedly support the call for the international community to respond urgently to the deteriorating humanitarian situation in south sudan. i consider it a priority and necessary call for the union to reprogram its assistance to south sudan as a developing country as soon as possible in line with its most basic humanitarian needs, but also a call for comprehensive institutional reforms that would allow south sudan to develop administrative and political processes that would guarantee the rule of law.
the reporter. - mr president, in affirming its role in international relations as a force for good, as a force for promoting and respecting the dignity of every human person, the european union has done the most in the field of development policy. the european union is a true global leader, not only because it is the largest donor, but also because, as a community founded on democratic values, it is absolutely convinced of the universality of the right of every human being to peace and freedom, to a life of dignity, to the right of every society to development, to sustainable economic, social and environmental development. this is why it is important that in the preparation of the new post-2015 global development framework, in the international negotiations to be held next year, the european union takes a strong and unified position, to speak with one voice. the european parliament resolution therefore sends a clear message to the council that in december we want the member states to put aside what divides them and to focus on what unites us europeans in the fight against world poverty, in the fight against inequality, in the promotion of sustainable development. we want the council to adopt a common position in december that will give the european union a strong and effective voice in the negotiations for a new global development framework that will replace the old millennium development goals of 2000 and bring in a new set of targets for the period after 2015. this new global development framework must be transformative, it must address not just the symptoms but the root causes of poverty and the modern scourges that stifle human dignity and prevent sustainable development. we do not want to diminish the importance of the mdgs so far and all their positive effects, especially in middle-income countries. but we also have to recognize that this progress, especially when it comes to economic growth, has not been felt equally by everyone. despite the achievements of the millennium development goals, the world is still experiencing a 'hunger scandal', as pope francis himself has pointed out, as we welcome him to the european parliament tomorrow. and indeed, it's a scandal, because in the world there is food for everyone, but there is no justice for everyone. that is why we have emphasised in this resolution that the new global development framework must be infused with a single approach that will be based on the promotion of the rule of law and respect for human rights. in this regard, we welcome the work of the united nations open working group which has proposed a new set of targets, including innovative targets that align with this vision. in the forthcoming negotiations we want to keep this in mind, especially goal 16, and we would also like to remain ambitious and also stress the need to promote 'good governance', because we believe this is necessary if we really want a transformative framework that will be effective in eradicating poverty, fighting inequality and promoting development. we know that it will not be easy to insist on this principle of 'good governance' in international negotiations, but we must do so because otherwise corruption will eat up funds destined for development, cancel or even outpace development efforts, and the gap between the extremely poor and the extremely rich will continue to widen. for the success of the transformative global development framework, we also need a renewed global partnership for development in which more responsibility must be taken by the new emerging economies, but also by the private sector, with clear guidelines and control mechanisms, of course. we need to involve civil society, local authorities and national parliaments more. the resolution also stresses the central role of women in development policy. unlike the millennium development goals, which were only for developing countries, we want the new global framework to set targets for all countries of the world, including the european union and its member states. in this resolution, we emphasise this principle of universality and therefore the need for the european union to align all its external and internal policies with the new objectives. ladies and gentlemen, we live in a globalised world where both our security and prosperity in europe are more than ever linked to the fate of those who are the poorest and on the margins of the international order. let's just look at the situation with the ebola outbreak. didn't we in europe feel the consequences of not having a comprehensive health system in west africa that could stop the virus from spreading in time? europe cannot be safe if it is surrounded by the hungry and the extremely poor. the extreme opportunities of poverty, misery and hopelessness are fertile ground for the spread of radical forces. an effective development policy is therefore the best response to any radicalism, and this is of course also true for opportunities within the european union. finally, mr president, i would like to say that we have worked together, all the political groups, in preparing this resolution, and i would therefore like to thank in particular all the shadow rapporteurs for their constructive approach. we now expect the council to adopt the same approach so that the european union can speak with one voice and remain a force for good, a force for development.
mr president, as the european union is the largest donor of development aid, it must also be the leader in the negotiations that follow. we see here an innovation, the member states must act together, uniquely, coherently and it is important that this programme should apply to all countries of the world and therefore it is universally applicable. i would like to take this opportunity to thank mr davor steer, who is the author of this report, who really put in the maximum effort in the shortest possible time and who, together with his co-rapporteurs or shadow rapporteurs, showed how a good report can be made and achieved the maximum of 466 amendments, for which i really want to thank him. we know that the millennium development goals were right and that part of the millennium development goals have been achieved. however, today we are facing new challenges and today we need a new programme. it's important that all the aspects are taken into account here, both the social and the economic and the environmental aspects, and it's very important that this is looked at in a joint way. otherwise, in times of climate change, in times when resources are slowly being depleted, we really need a new approach. tomorrow is the day of action against violence against women, and that's why i'm glad you included this gender equality component and concern for the underrepresented gender. in any case, poverty needs to be eradicated, all 28 countries need to have a common position, and that's why i share the common view with you that europe will be safer if we eradicate poverty, and that will help europe to do better together.
mr president, the objectives set out in mr stiller's report are indeed what we must strive for. their universality, which my colleague rightly emphasizes, is important if we want to live in a just world, but i hope that we will not try to achieve them by universal methods, that is, by respecting the differences between the world's societies, peoples and cultures. universal solutions have not yet been successful in our own backyard, so it would be unreasonable to expect the opposite effect on the global stage. examples of children starving in one of croatia's schools or families thrown out onto the street by a cruel penal code are becoming a daily occurrence in my country, despite croatia being a member of the european union. so i am particularly pleased that my colleague is proposing to apply the new development framework to member countries to reduce the visible inequalities among them as well. i welcome the emphasis on the importance of the private sector, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, which are the engines of economic growth and are literally crushed in our country by excessive taxes and administrative burdens.
mr. president, i am committed to the millennium development goals that will improve democratic standards, guarantee dignity for all, and defeat hunger and war. as a person who is committed to equality for all, i believe it is necessary to ensure a more equitable distribution of wealth in order to fight against hunger and poverty. it is therefore important to redirect the financial support we provide towards sustainable development and to encourage the creation of those jobs that come from a sustainable economy, that protects workers and their social security and that protects the environment. i would like to mention in particular the importance of investing in rural development to ensure that people in rural areas have the same living conditions as those in cities. these people have to have the same standards, but they have to have jobs, and one of the best models of self-employment is agriculture. farmers produce food and that's why they're important to us, and the question of fair food distribution is a political question. so we need to be politicians who have a sense of the needs of the people and who know that it is imperative to protect the human dignity of every human being and to allow every human being to be born and to be fulfilled in their lifetime.
mr. president, the world is more intertwined than ever before in the most diverse ways possible, from what is positive to what we're talking about today which is of course extremely difficult and negative. first of all, the fight against poverty, first of all, what are the european values that we do not want to impose on others, but we simply want to offer as something that we all share here together, and that is first of all gender equality, the rule of law, human rights in general and everything that we know is important for our continent. i want to believe that europe can remain a leader in all these policies that are important for our continent, but only on one condition: if europe really has one voice in both the european commission and the european parliament and in the member states. if we don't, we're not gonna be able to stay ahead of the game.
member of the commission. - mr president, let me first thank you for this fruitful debate and your valuable input into the post-2015 discussion. i have noted your views on various issues that are so important for the 2015 process. gender equality, migration, the environment and human rights will most certainly be some of the key priorities in our work. this also goes for education, sustainable growth, health issues, and domestic, international and private-public interlinks into development policies. the euʼs development policy is a cornerstone of our relations with the wider world. it works alongside and shapes a range of policies from foreign affairs, security and trade to the environment, agriculture and fisheries. as such, it gives us considerable negotiating power in the discussions ahead. the eu is the world’s leading donor and its most open market for exports from developing countries and, in particular, the least developed countries. i believe that this gives us a very powerful and influential voice in the post-2015 discussions. the high degree of convergence between the eu position and the open working group report is one manifestation of that influence. your report is an important contribution from parliament to forging a clear and strong eu position. i trust that the council will deliver sound and effective conclusions in a few weeks’ time. but we should not stop there. the global partnership required to implement the new agenda will need supporting actions from all stakeholders, including parliament’s. an effective review, monitoring and accountability mechanism will be essential. i see a significant role for parliaments here too, in helping to hold us to account on progress and in encouraging greater ambition, particularly in ensuring that all citizens can indeed benefit. together let us bring the weight and influence of a coordinated eu position into the intergovernmental negotiations. in september next year the united nations general assembly will come together to agree on a new development framework for our time. let us show how strong a voice the eu can have and how united it can be and influence our partners to reach the best possible outcome.
the reporter. - mr. president, this debate seems to me to have shown that the report has a wide support from different political groups. i would like to thank in conclusion all those who contributed to the debate, but especially the shadow rapporteurs, because without their constructive approach to this work it would not have been possible to draw up a report of this kind, which enjoys broad support and which sends a very clear message to the council, which must now, in december, draw conclusions which will define the position of the european union. i'm just as sorry that there's no council representative here with us right now. however, i would like to highlight the good cooperation with commissioner mimic. i think that cooperation will be extremely important in the coming period, of course also in the implementation of the position that the european union will take. i will not, of course, refer to everything that has already been said today, but i must correct some incorrect statements by the representatives, mainly from the far right, who have now left the hall, but who complained that the report does not mention the fight against corruption at all. that's not true, of course. that was mentioned by mr. aliot, who also voted against the report in the committee. but there's a whole section in the report that deals with that, and specifically paragraph 29, very specifically about fighting corruption. therefore, before the criticism goes, the document must be read. of course, as i said earlier in the introduction, effective development policy is actually the antidote to any radicalism, both in the world and in our own environment, but of course it is also true within the european union. so perhaps i can understand why some positions on the far right do not want to support this approach and this document. what is important is that the european union speaks with one voice, that we have one strong position in the negotiations to be held in 2015, and that in this way the european union remains a strong force for good and for sustainable development.
member of the commission. - mr president, i am very pleased and honoured to be here as commissioner for regional policy and i thank the committee on regional development for this important question, which allows me to explain where we stand with our cohesion policy programming and the measures that we need to take in order to guarantee smooth and fast completion of the process. let us start with good news. as you know, all partnership agreements and 39 cohesion policy programmes have been adopted to date, including 24 investment for growth and jobs programmes where regio is in the lead, 14 where employment is in the lead, and one european territorial cooperation programme. the first rural development and maritime and fisheries programmes will be adopted by the end of this year and the rest will follow in 2015. as you said, the 2014-2020 legislative package for cohesion policy was adopted very late, in december 2013, six months later than the corresponding package in 2006 for the period 2007-2013, so this late adoption of the multiannual framework and regulation left no time for preparation of the programming period starting on 1 january 2014. expenditure is eligible as from 1 january 2014, which means that member states do not need to wait for the programmes to be adopted. they can start implementation of activities in sectors that are not subject to debate with the commission. in fact, in many regions, calls for proposals and project selection processes have already started, and some of the operations to be supported are already ongoing. of course, procedures and projects that started before adoption of the programmes will need to be confirmed and validated by the monitoring committees, once established, and will need to comply with the regulation. you ask about the main difficulties encountered when discussing operational programmes with member states; and, of course, circumstances and issues are different from one member state to another, so i do not think it would be appropriate in such a limited time to give details. but to summarise, i can say that the debates were mainly on a handful of recurrent issues: the insufficient logic of the intervention foreseen, and therefore the need to strengthen the link between needs and challenges, identified inter alia in the country-specific recommendations, and between results to be achieved corresponding to indicators and actions to be supported; the lack of concentration of investment priorities, the fulfilment of ex ante conditionalities, and finally, of course, the importance of having robust strategies in place to enhance administrative capacity. moving to the question of the programmes that still need to be adopted, we consider that more than half of all cohesion policy programmes will have been adopted either by the end of the year or under the carryover procedure by march at the latest. in order to preserve the 2014 commitments for the remaining programmes, and those that will not be ready for adoption by the end of this year, the commission intends to present a revision of the mff by early february 2015. we hope that we can count on the european parliament and the council to help us secure early adoption of this mff revision and the related amending budget before 4 may 2015. the internal commission procedures have also been streamlined in order to allow them to carry over as many programmes as possible. however, the commission will not compromise quality over speed. the programmes which set the framework for investment for the next seven years must build on solid strategies so that european taxpayer can be assured of getting the most effective use of their contributions. finally, i would like to assure you that the backlog of 2013 unpaid claims for cohesion policy – and i know mr van nistelrooij will ask me about that – will not affect the start of the new period, as the newly adopted programmes have immediately received pre-financing. i had an intense discussion with the commissioner for the budget and with other colleagues in order to find a solution for these unpaid claims. however, approval of the third amending budget for 2014 and the budget for 2015 by the budgetary authority as foreseen by the commission remains essential in order to reduce the amount of unpaid claims for the 2007-2013 period for this and next year. thank you very much once again and i am looking forward to hearing from you.
on behalf of the alde club. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we must put our hands to our hearts and say that european cohesion policy is in a crisis of its own. i do not want to discourage our commissioner, mrs creţu, in whom i have placed my complete trust and in whom i have confidence and whom i hope will make a significant statement on wednesday when she and mr juncker present their plans, to convince us that cohesion policy will also be a success for the commission, because i will see the success of the european union's cohesion policy in this mandate as my success in the work of this parliament. but the fact that we have significant backlogs in unpaid bills is something that is very disturbing to our fellow citizens, businesses, institutions, ngos. the dramatic backlog of operational programmes is also something that raises doubts in my mind about the success and the rapid implementation of cohesion policy in the months and years ahead. that is why i want to make every effort and personally do everything i can to help ensure that cohesion policy is established as one of the key policies of the european union, because i am convinced that europe can best be built from the ground up, from the cities, from the regions, from our countries to the european union. i believe in this principle of subsidiarity, and it is here that regional and cohesion policy is a key policy. in this context, i hope that today's question will stimulate debate, but also that we will eventually come together to find satisfactory solutions.
thank you, chairman. commissioner, in the debates in parliament the commission has always told us, and we have agreed with it, that quality is not the only thing that matters, but speed is also important. it seems that both of these things are getting out of hand. n+3 for 2014 is now turning into n+2 and even less, and when it comes to quality, many of the adopted documents do not relate well to the key recommendations from the european semester and do not give a clear answer to the question of how exactly their implementation will ensure the development, especially the apostrophes, of cities, because studies have shown that urban areas are not well covered in the strategic documents, as well as rural areas, job creation, encouraging entrepreneurship. in addition to these questions, as regards outstanding commitments, the question we must ask is how the european budget is managed and how to deal with outstanding commitments.
mr. president, the questions asked require urgent answers because the poorer members cannot wait. cohesion policy is the most important tool in the fight against inequalities between member states, and any delay in its implementation is a blow to the foundations of this community whose task is to ensure stability and security for the less developed. in addition to inefficient administrative apparatus and the frequent absence of a long-term strategy by national governments, the less developed member states cannot tolerate the inertia of the european bodies and count on their determination and strategic thinking. this was missing, for example, in the division of croatia into two nuts ii regions, which placed the least developed eastern part of the country in the same statistical region with the richest northwestern part, thus depriving them of the necessary resources for development.
mr president, commissioner, the dilemma we face is not so difficult: are we for more profit, more profit, which is legitimate, or are we really sincere about respecting european values, human rights, the rule of law and all that we know is often violated in our partner countries which use dual-use products. in fact, more than that, these products can often be used against ourselves, against our citizens, against the citizens of the european union, our neighbours, our friends. so in that context, i am of course in favour of thinking first of all about european values, about what this parliament has created, and perhaps less about profit.
mr. president, we've heard that 85% of the companies are small and medium-sized, that it's very important and that it's the backbone of the economic agenda. also, mr timmermans, your ambitions are really encouraging and you are fully, as you said, committed to this goal and you need our support - i believe you will have it. but i have a question, and perhaps you can answer it: creating this independent body to guarantee the credibility of eu legislation, and we have already created you and your portfolio that actually speaks to that - does that mean that we are duplicating ourselves within the body? is it necessary for someone to control the european commission? if you're doing a fair impact assessment, if you're removing all the administrative burdens, if you're making the laws simple and they're propulsive and we can easily implement them, why this independent body? i'd like you to explain that in your closing statement.
madam president, in the shadow of the scandalous move of the hague tribunal which released the war criminal vojislav šešelj whose malicious statements the serbian top has not yet commented on, there was a new blow to the dignity of the croatian lawyer veljko marić who is serving a prison sentence in serbia. although it is questionable on what basis the serbian judiciary is competent at all for a crime allegedly committed by a croatian citizen against croatian citizens on the territory of the republic of croatia, it is even more scandalous that veljko marić is not allowed to serve a prison sentence in croatia. serbia goes so far as to ban humanitarian workers from the charity "bedem ljubavi" from visiting marić, despite indications that his health is seriously impaired and that he is not receiving adequate medical care. it is a continuation of the policy that does not allow croats to commemorate the suffering in the war camps on serbian soil, and it is up to us to ask ourselves whether such a country... (deputy interrupted)
madam president, i want to make you aware tonight of a few facts that are happening in our immediate neighborhood and it's not just croatia that should be concerned about serbia's behavior towards russia. there is a hidden resentment among many diplomats over putin's visit to belgrade, the military parade held in his honor, and the military exercises of special forces of serbia and russia near the croatian border, which is no longer just croatian but also the external border of nato and the european union. so it could be said to be a provocation. we were not impressed by the latest events surrounding the release of the accused seselj by the international court in the hague, nor by the laconic statement of minister dacic that serbia must achieve an outlet to the sea. if relations between russia and the west worsen, serbia will have to abandon its neutral position and choose a candidate for accession, but the union will no longer be silent if we really want the countries of south-east europe to join the union.
madam president, one of the strategic objectives of the european union is to provide high-quality infrastructure connections between the member states. in this context, road and rail links are particularly important. that is why i am here calling on the commission to complete, together with the republic of slovenia and the republic of croatia, the linking of the road from kopri to buj, from postojna to rupe and rijeka respectively, and from maribor to the border with croatia. the commission notes that the transport infrastructure is not in a position to provide the necessary infrastructure for the transport of goods and passengers. it is in this context that i ask the european commission to give serious consideration to the possibility of financing these projects.
mr president, i share the concern about the increase in unemployment and poverty in the european union and the growing disparities between member states. achieving the employment and poverty reduction targets must indeed be our priority. but i don't think we're going to get there by increasing the regulatory burden, which to the extent it does is stifling small and medium-sized enterprises, which are the engines of economic growth and whose stability and good business are the main drivers of employment. a good number of colleagues are advocating for more welfare payments to fight poverty, while rejecting fiscal consolidation. the croatian example shows that without fiscal consolidation and tax relief for companies, any effect is absent, as the closure of private companies leads to a budget deficit that would only be deepened by unrealistically high social contributions. it's not the way to equality or prosperity, but debt slavery.
the 2020 strategy and the period up to 2020 will be crucial for the further political future of the european union. successful economic development and positive social growth can only convincingly ensure the political visibility of the european union. today, 120 million europeans live below the poverty line and 16 million are unemployed. if all the significant investments in large, but especially small and medium-sized enterprises, are not used up over the next five years, there will be no success in european policy. a person without a secure income is rightly distrustful of any authority. we know that many eu countries today can only boost their development through global european development. croatia is the only country in this situation. the long-term unemployment of young people and the still unequal position of women in the labour market are particularly vulnerable. the commission's strategy for 2020 is to ensure that the union's citizens are able to participate in the decision-making process.
written. - i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution relating to the draft council decision approving the protocol to the convention on international interests in mobile equipment relating to matters specific to railway vehicles, as it facilitates the financing of high value railway vehicles and creates a strong international guarantee for creditors. i believe that we need to turn to investment and innovation in the european railway sector, to promote environmentally friendly and sustainable modes of transport, and i also support capital investment in the railway sector - particularly in certain eu countries that show significant backlogs in rail infrastructure.
written. - i support the recommendation on the draft council decision on the approval, on behalf of the european union, of the protocol to the convention on international interests in mobile equipment relating to matters specific to railway vehicles, adopted in luxembourg on 23 february 2007. the convention applies in the case of a debtor located in a state party to the convention and strengthens the rights of creditors in the event of a debtor failing to repay its obligations through the establishment of an international system for creditors where they register their interests through different categories. the protocol facilitates financing while enhancing confidence among potential creditors and thus encouraging a higher level of capital investment in the railway sector. the protocol also encourages the shift towards a more environmentally conscious and sustainable mode of transport such as rail.
written. - i supported the initiative of my colleague, heidi hautale, on the recommendation on a draft council decision approving the protocol to the convention on international interests in mobile equipment on matters specific to railway vehicles. the agency shall be responsible for the development and revision of the technical specifications and interoperability, with a view to extending their scope to the whole of the european union without technical, regulatory or operational constraints. the agency has been requested to develop the interoperability of the rolling stock-freight wagon subsystem. common standards, based on the principle of the single market, are not only easier to revise, but also reduce costs in many ways, and a single rail network across the european union provides faster, cheaper and better quality deliveries and makes travel easier for european citizens. the commission has developed a framework for the decision-making and standards to be respected in railway investment, as railway is a shared competence between the european commission and the member states. in this win-win situation, member states only need to keep pace with standards in order to overcome possible barriers to the movement of goods, thereby reducing costs and increasing the competitiveness of their geostrategic position.
written. - whereas on 12 june 2013 the commission published a proposal for a council decision on the authorisation, on behalf of the european union, of international participation in rolling stock specific to railway vehicles, the commission notes that the protocol on the future functioning of the european union rail system is not yet in force and that the protocol on the future functioning of the european union rail system is not yet in force. i welcome the objectives of this proposal to encourage innovation and investment in railways. as a member of the environment committee, i find this proposal of particular interest and welcome the point in the proposal that aims to encourage sustainable and green modes of transport such as rail.
written. - i supported this proposal because i believe it leads to a significant easing of the conditions for registration of ownership, improves the security of conditions and offers the best solutions in the event of bankruptcy of private operators and owners of mobile equipment. i consider all proposals which, in one way or another, lead to the removal of administrative barriers and the simplification of technical rules on the market to be positive developments worthy of all support.
written. - i voted in favour of approving the hague convention of 30 june 2015 on choice of court agreements because acceptance of the convention means greater legal certainty for european companies trading outside the eu, respecting choice of court agreements, and improved trade between the participating countries. although mexico is currently the only country to have ratified the convention, i believe that other countries, such as the united states, should be encouraged to do the same.
written. - i supported this recommendation because it provides legal certainty in disputes and ensures that the choice-of-court agreement is respected and that the judgment of the chosen court is enforced and recognised also in cross-border situations. the commission also found that the average price of the product concerned in the union market was higher than the average price of the product concerned in the union market. the hague convention on choice of court agreements was concluded on 30 june 2005 under the auspices of the hague conference on private international law. the aim is to offer greater legal certainty and predictability to parties to agreements between companies and international disputes by creating an optional international dispute settlement mechanism alongside the existing arbitration system, which would result in the promotion of trade between signatory countries.
written. - i supported the initiative of mr pawel svoboda to send a recommendation to the council to approve the hague convention of 30 june 2005 on choice of court agreements. i would stress that the eu's approval of the convention will provide greater legal certainty in the selection of the international court for the agreements and thus promote trade between the participating countries. i believe it is important for the eu to work towards the objectives of the convention on the promotion of international trade and investment by strengthening judicial cooperation through the introduction of uniform rules. the convention aims to offer greater legal certainty and predictability to parties to agreements between companies and international disputes by creating an optional international dispute settlement mechanism alongside the existing arbitration system. i approve the draft decision of the council of the european union to exclude consumer insurance contracts from the convention, thereby preventing beneficiaries from unconsciously agreeing to a choice-of-court clause. i consider that the approval of the convention by the eu will complement the achievement of the objectives underlying the eu rules on the extension of competence by creating a harmonised set of rules within the eu in relation to third countries that will become contracting parties to the convention.
i support the hague convention of 30 june 2005 on choice of court agreements. the convention provides for the recognition of judgments and decisions of the courts of the member states in cross-border situations. the hague convention also aims to offer greater legal certainty and predictability to parties to agreements between companies and international disputes by creating an optional international dispute settlement mechanism alongside the existing arbitration system, which would result in the promotion of trade between signatory countries.
written. - having regard to the 'convention on the choice of court agreements' concluded on 30 june 2005 and signed by the union on 1 april 2009, on the basis of council decision 2009/397 / ec, it is important that, before the approval of the convention on behalf of the european union, each individual and company covered by this convention be protected and not adversely affected. furthermore, i welcome the fact that this convention would reduce legal uncertainty for european union companies trading outside the union and that it would provide them with a harmonised set of rules within the eu. this convention applies to all member states, including croatia, and as the representative of croatia in the european parliament i support the report for the approval of the convention because i believe that it will greatly help in the harmonization of laws for companies belonging to member states.
written. - i support the rapporteur's proposal, which encourages ratification of the hague convention. the same applies to private international law, more specifically to treaties on the choice of court to be responsible in civil and commercial matters. i agree with the rapporteur's finding that acceptance of this convention should provide legal certainty for international choice-of-court exclusive agreements and thereby encourage exchanges between the member states of the union. i also regard as a positive consequence of ratification the possibility of developing a more consistent level of enforcement of judgments as a result, as common rules would extend the scope to international law.
written. - i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund in the event of the 577 redundancies at stx finland oy, as the financial resources allocated by it represent a dynamic and effective way of mitigating the consequences of the redundancies in south-west finland. most workers have lower skills and are aged between 55 and 64, leading to a higher probability of long-term unemployment and exclusion from the labour market. it is therefore important to launch urgent assistance to workers to help find an alternative solution to the new situation, which is further under pressure from global trends in the maritime industry and from the sharp decline in the european union's market share in the shipbuilding sector. i also welcome the fact that the finnish authorities initially launched the implementation of tailor-made services for the affected workers, which was followed by a request to mobilise the funds.
written. - due to significant structural changes in world trade flows, i supported the report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund to assist workers who lost their jobs at stx finland oy, as the significant structural changes in world trade flows had a significant impact on the decline in business and significant redundancies. the european globalisation adjustment fund was created to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of structural changes brought about by globalisation. the report seeks to secure eur 1.5 million to help redundant workers through training measures, entrepreneurship promotion and reimbursement of travel and other costs.
written. - i supported the report of my colleague petri sarvamaae. globalization has also had an impact on the shipbuilding market. due to the significant expansion of asian producers in the shipbuilding market and the decreased number of orders due to the economic crisis, there is currently overcapacity which causes severe competition. i welcome the proposal of the european parliament and of the council to provide financial assistance to 577 dismissed workers of stx finland oy in the amount of eur 1 426 800 to provide dismissed workers with transition assistance, start-up assistance and training and education. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the union industry has been able to recover from past dumping. it is important to note that the dismissal of the 577 workers will further worsen unemployment in south-west finland, that these are workers with a low level of education and that they are older in age, which increases the risk of long-term unemployment.
i supported the report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund to help workers who lost their jobs at stx finland oy. the redundancies in the company in question followed various structural changes that occurred at the time of the great economic crisis that europe was struggling with. finland submitted that request on 27 may 2014. the purpose of this report is to provide additional resources to help those workers who have lost their jobs and to provide them with support through various measures. this report seeks to secure a total of eur 1 426 800 for the provision of assistance to redundant workers through various measures such as training, entrepreneurship promotion and other costs related to the training of workers and for assistance with their employment.
written. - whereas on 27 may 2014, finland submitted an application to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund, in relation to the redundancies of 565 workers at stx finlandia oy in rauma, the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was established to provide support for workers made redundant and self-employed persons whose activity has ceased as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation, as a result of the continuation of the global financial and economic crisis, and to assist them with their reintegration into the labour market. furthermore, as the egf cannot exceed the maximum annual amount of eur 150 million (2011 prices), as provided for in article 12 of regulation (eu, euratom) no 1311/2013, i therefore support the decision to mobilise in order to provide a financial contribution of eur 1 426 800 to finland.
written. - i voted against the draft decision on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, which is based on finland's request for a financial contribution of eur 2.3 million from the european globalisation adjustment fund for the redundancies of a total of 634 workers at stx finsland oy. in my view, such packages of measures are only short-term solutions for the redundant workers and further aggravate the poor economic situation, which is particularly reflected in the sectors affected by the crisis. the commission has also proposed that the member states should provide their companies with a sound business framework that will enable them to compete in the global market, which implies tax relief and the removal of bureaucratic barriers that hamper investment and business.
written. - i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for the 744 workers made redundant by the french company gad, because the redundancies will have a major impact on the unemployment situation in britain, where the agricultural sector, compared to the french average, has a major impact on employment in the region. the decline in pork consumption, closely linked to the global financial crisis and the trend towards globalisation, has further worsened the situation in the gad. in addition, slaughterhouses and meat processing undertakings in the gad have had difficulty in coping with the increase in price pressures and lower purchasing power of consumers, as well as external factors such as unfair competition in the internal market. furthermore, the age of majority of workers represents a possibility of exclusion from the labour market and insufficient involvement of local political bodies and trade unions has been established. therefore, i believe that the financial contribution from the egf will be a concrete help to the workers of the gad who are affected by the structural changes in the world.
written. - i supported the report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund to help france, because the global economic and financial crisis has led to a significant reduction in the number of workers in the food industry who need help to re-enter the labour market. the european globalisation adjustment fund was created to provide additional support to workers declared redundant as a result of the global financial and economic crisis in order to assist them with their reintegration into the labour market. the report aims to mobilise around eur 1 million for counselling and vocational guidance, all with the aim of reintegrating dismissed food workers in france into the labour market.
written. - i supported the report of the reporter anneli jäätteenmäki. in a world of market economies and globalisation, many companies and their workers are affected by structural reforms aimed at eliminating unprofitability and misallocation of resources. in the case of french glad, there was a double pressure, on the one hand from farmers struggling with rising food prices and on the other hand from consumers struggling with reduced incomes. i supported the proposal of the european commission and the council to provide financial assistance to gad, a food production company, in the amount of eur 918 000. the process of providing rapid assistance to redundant workers by creating personalised services tailored to each individual is very useful, but i think it would be useful for the french government to present a more complex programme with a broader aspect of the measures. the commission notes that the french authorities have not provided any evidence that the aid is compatible with the internal market. faced with a difficult economic situation and a large increase in unemployment we must refocus on mitigating the crisis.
written. i supported the proposal to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund for budgetary cooperation and good financial management in france. following the redundancies of the workers from gad société anonyme simplifiée, the french authorities submitted an application for a financial contribution from the egf, which, following its assessment, the commission concluded that the conditions for granting a financial contribution from the egf were met. the european globalisation adjustment fund provides support to people who have lost their jobs as a result of structural changes in world trade flows due to globalisation. the closure of large companies or the relocation of production outside the eu, which may be the result of the global economic and financial crisis, puts eu citizens at a disadvantage by leaving them unemployed. this report seeks to mobilise eur 918 000 to help redundant workers find new jobs through counselling and career guidance, so that they can return to the labour market as soon as possible.
written. - whereas on 6 june 2014 france submitted an application to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund, following the redundancies of 744 workers at gad société anonyme simplifiée in france, and taking into account council regulation (eu) no 1311/2013 of 2 december 2013 laying down the multiannual financial framework for the period 2014 to 2020, the application meets all the criteria necessary for the mobilisation of the fund, the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was established to provide support for workers made redundant and self-employed persons whose activity has ceased as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation, as a result of the continuation of the global financial and economic crisis, and to assist them with their reintegration into the labour market. i support the proposal to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund, submitted by france, to secure a financial contribution of eur 918 000.
written. - i voted against the draft decision on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, which is based on a request by france for a financial contribution of eur 918 000 from the european globalisation adjustment fund, for the redundancies of a total of 760 workers from the french overseas departments. in my view, such packages of measures are only short-term solutions for the redundant workers and further aggravate the poor economic situation, which is particularly reflected in the sectors affected by the crisis. the commission has also proposed that the member states should provide their companies with a sound business framework that will enable them to compete in the global market, which implies tax relief and the removal of bureaucratic barriers that hamper investment and business.
written. - i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution requesting the opinion of the court of justice on the transfer and processing of passenger name record data (canada - european union), as this further ensures and protects the right of individuals to the protection of personal data, which has been found to be frequently infringed and abused. i also believe that the opinion of a european body such as the court of justice on the compatibility of the agreement with the treaties can further contribute to the general feeling of security and fairness.
written. - i did not support the motion for a resolution requesting the opinion of the european court of justice on the conformity with the treaties of the agreement between the european union and canada on the transfer of air passenger name record data to the canadian border services agency and its processing, as it would delay the entry into force of this useful agreement. we have to work continuously on the security of eu citizens, and more recently we have been paying attention to foreign fighters, european citizens and citizens of third countries who are going across eu territory to the wars in iraq and syria and joining isis. i believe that the airline passenger data transfer and processing measure is a step forward in increasing safety. the data shall be used exclusively for the purpose of combating terrorism and criminal activities. any misuse of data would seriously undermine the credibility of any agreements signed with third countries that are required to guarantee high security in the storage of such data.
written. i supported the proposed opinion because i believe that an evaluation of the agreement by the european court of justice is essential. the european court of justice should give its opinion, as the collection and storage of data on air passengers may compromise their right to privacy, a fundamental right of every european citizen, a right that we are obliged to protect. the commission has also requested the canadian authorities to provide additional information to the commission on the use of the data for the purposes of the investigation. the acquis of the european union highlights the principle of proportionality as one of the fundamental principles which may be infringed by this agreement. in the light of all the above, i consider that the opinion of the court is necessary and can prevent in a timely manner a potential breach of the right to protection of personal data of citizens of the european union.
written. i did not support this resolution. the commission should also be able to take into account the specific needs of the member states and the union as a whole, in particular the need to ensure that the union's citizens are protected against unauthorised access to their personal data. i consider that, although the purpose of the agreement, as stated in article 1 thereof, is to establish the conditions under which data may be transferred and used and to determine the means of data protection, and since the agreement was signed on 25 june 2014 and parliament was asked by the council on 8 july 2014 to give its consent to a new data transfer agreement with canada, we must ensure that all citizens and the interests of the european union are fully protected before the conclusion of the contract.
written. - we must ensure that eu citizens feel safe and that decisions such as the transfer of passenger data do not harm them as eu citizens. therefore, i do not support the resolution because i believe that although the purpose of the agreement, as stated in its article 1, is to establish the conditions under which data may be transferred and used and to determine the means of data protection, and since the agreement was signed on 25 june 2014 and the council asked parliament for its consent to a new data transfer agreement with canada on 8 july 2014, we must ensure that all citizens and the interests of the european union are fully protected before the conclusion of the agreement. i welcome any positive cooperation, if the interests of the european union are met and if the citizens of the european union are protected.
written. - i consider it illogical and unfounded for the alde group to ask the european court of justice for an opinion on the compatibility of the eu-canada agreement with the treaty on the functioning of the european union, given that the canadian border services agency has decided on its own initiative to guarantee to the union that the old data transfer obligations will remain in force until the new agreement is applied, which has also been notified to all member states of the union and their data protection authorities. instead, i consider it logical, rather than seeking a compatibility opinion from the european court of justice, to smoothly adopt the new eu-canada pip agreement, as this move by the alde group could lead to a significant delay in the adoption of the new agreement.
mr vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, i have today endorsed the report by my colleague davos stier of the croatian delegation on the post-2015 global development goals. i think it is a comprehensive one, that it fits perfectly into the european year of development, the year of development 2015. it is a continuation of the work on the millennium global goals that we have been working on for the past 15 years in the wider international community. i think that the approach of poverty eradication, aid to the underdeveloped countries, the essential aspect of emphasising human rights, openness to civil society, openness to the private sector to contribute to development goals in agreement and dialogue with the commission, in whose portfolio croatian commissioner mimica works, is a very good and very good effort to make the member states meet their targets of giving 0.7 of their gross domestic product to development aid as one of the main objectives of the european union.
written. - i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the eu and global development framework for the period after 2015 because it clearly sets out the necessary guidelines for achieving a balanced and sustainable system of overall stability. it is of paramount importance that special attention be paid to respect for fundamental human rights, their indivisibility and universality, and to the building of spaces of peace and coexistence. this adds great importance to the role of women in the new global context and gives strong support to the suppression and condemnation of violence against women and girls. also, large-scale inequalities are known; economic, social, political...therefore, the global development framework after 2015, is largely focused towards poverty eradication, sustainable development and environmental protection, provision of basic services, rights and health conditions, and promotes dynamic employment and quality education. as the proposal itself states, i believe that the implementation of these measures will be a key contribution and role that local, regional and national authorities, and civil society, will be able to play.
written. - i support this report because i believe that the fight against poverty and inequality, sustainable development and a human rights-based approach, including the principle of good governance, are essential components of a new long-term global framework that requires global engagement and collective action. the programme has been extremely successful in reducing extreme poverty, fighting malaria and tuberculosis. it also showed significant improvements in access to drinking water and reduction in primary school enrollment disparities. but despite all these successes, additional efforts are needed to identify gaps and continue to fight global inequality. the millennium development goals were set in 2000 with the goal of being achieved by 2015. this programme has achieved a global partnership and demonstrated consensus in setting priorities for all actors in society including governments, the international community, civil society, but also the private sector in order to achieve these objectives, and it is essential that this type of linkage between all relevant actors continues in the global development framework beyond 2015.
written. - in adopting a resolution on the eu and the global development framework beyond 2015, the european parliament asked the council to adopt a unified eu position ahead of the negotiations to be conducted under the auspices of the united nations. it is important to note that the resolution emphasises respect for the dignity of every human being, which is based on article 2 of the charter of fundamental rights of the eu on the right to life of every human being. the resolution also needs to be seen in the context of previous european parliament decisions, primarily the resolution on sexual and reproductive health and rights of 10 december 2013, which emphasises the principle of subsidiarity and the right of each member state to define those rights itself. therefore, the mention of sexual and reproductive rights in the resolution on the eu and the global development framework after 2015 cannot and should not be interpreted as a wording that automatically includes abortion, but this issue is left to states to regulate by national legislation. the resolution on the eu and the global development framework after 2015 makes no mention of abortion, nor does it in any way encourage, much less coerce, eu member states or developing countries to legalize abortion.
written. - i welcome the fact that the millennium development goals set in 2000 have been a great success in middle-income and developing countries, but the report also points out that progress within these same countries is uneven, and that before formulating the post-2015 development goals, the results to date need to be properly analysed, as they are the clearest indicator of the results of the work done so far and what needs to be done further. i agree that the 'global sustainable development framework post-2015' should be transformative in addressing the root causes of poverty and inequality and thus continue and fulfil the unfinished business of the current millennium development goals. furthermore, key issues such as inequalities, human rights violations, climate change, limited access to education, demographic change and other problems we face today are key factors that need to be addressed and that need to be taken into account in the formulation of new goals. as a member of the environment committee, i would specifically refer to environmental sustainability as one of the main challenges, and i agree that failure to achieve it would likely jeopardise all aspects of human development and the achievement of sustainable development.
written. - i strongly support efforts to take into account the different circumstances, capacities, policies and priorities of individual countries in the new development framework and i consider it extremely positive that poverty eradication and sustainable development are recognised as key themes of the new development framework. i also agree that the achievement of the new development goals requires continued close cooperation between the eu and developing countries, with a view to increasing the countries' domestic revenues, as well as transparent and reliable mobilisation of financial resources. that's why i voted yes.
mr vice-president, the europe 2020 strategy on employment and social aspects is one of the key issues in the forthcoming multiannual financial framework for the european union, in the forthcoming work of the european commission. our efforts to work towards inclusive growth and to meet all those targets that relate to increasing employment to 75% for people aged 20 to 64, to 20 million fewer people in poverty in the european union than there are today and to reducing the number of early school leavers. in any case, with the other measures under the european semester, with the measures concerning the implementation of programmes under the european budget, the role of the european parliament in highlighting the social aspects of strategy 2020 is extremely important and that is why i have today supported the adoption of this report which we have prepared in the context of strategy 2020.
written. - i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on employment and social aspects of the europe 2020 strategy, because i believe that this resolution would contribute to strengthening the european union's single market and promote economic development and social work, which can strengthen the european union. investment in small and medium-sized enterprises needs to be launched as soon as possible to end unemployment and poverty and to give a positive boost to growth. the europe 2020 strategy, based on the principle of subsidiarity, could become a major factor for the political future of the european union, thus strengthening the complementarity between inequality and growth.
written. - since the europe 2020 strategy came into force in 2010, no significant progress has been made in reducing eu member states' unemployment, poverty levels, and the overall long-term sustainable development agenda. on the contrary, the figures and statistics suggest that unemployment is continuing to rise, the risk of poverty is increasing, and income inequality is widening. from all of the above, it can be concluded that it is not sufficiently emphasised that the benefits of economic growth must be integrated into society as a whole, in order for the long-term results to be truly seen. i support this resolution because i believe that member states should be better prepared to respond to the needs of the labour market, while ensuring a link with the education system. i call on the member states to work towards reducing the red tape that unnecessarily burdens the entire union system. facilitated access to the labour market for all self-employed, micro-entrepreneurs and, in general, all small and medium-sized enterprises is important.
written. i supported the report on employment and the social dimension of european integration, which is a key element of the europe 2020 strategy. since 2010, the number of unemployed citizens or those at risk of poverty and social exclusion in the eu has risen to 120 million, with a growing number of people living in or at risk of poverty. the europe 2020 strategy sets a target of 75% employment rate for women and men aged 20-64 through increased participation of young, older and low-skilled workers and better integration of migrants. eu member states differ from one another, and so unemployment rates vary across member states, which can lead to increased social inequalities. we have negative experiences with the risk of poverty and high unemployment rate in croatia. according to eurostat studies, croatia is among the countries with the highest unemployment rate, but also among the poorest members of the eu and the highest rate of risk of poverty, which is also influenced by the education rate. the promotion of employment and education is necessary for the progress of society, the state and the european union, and i therefore support the report.
written. - the commission's proposal for a 'europe 2020' strategy to launch a strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth addresses a problem that we still face in the european union, namely unemployment and youth unemployment. unfortunately, there is still a crisis of unemployment, especially among young people, and i personally believe that this should be one of the priorities that must be actively and thoroughly worked on in order to help young people in croatia and the european union with regard to unemployment. the figure of 51% for the average unemployment rate is a sign that there is a real need to work on this issue in order to achieve the objectives of the strategy 2020. also according to the report, women's employment has increased in the last few years, but these same women are working part-time, not full-time, and we need to work on this issue, given that the figures show that 32.9% of women work part-time compared to 8.4% of men who work part-time. furthermore, with strategy 2020, we need to implement strong policies to support growth, combat poverty, and respect fundamental rights such as respecting and promoting the principles of gender equality and non-discrimination.
written. - i agree that the objectives of employment and poverty reduction must be a priority, but i do not believe that we will achieve this by increasing the regulatory burden, which is already suffocating small and medium-sized enterprises, the engines of economic growth, whose stability and good business are the main drivers of employment. a good number of colleagues are advocating for more welfare payments to fight poverty, while seeking to reject fiscal consolidation. the commission notes that the measures in question are not intended to provide a financial incentive to the private sector to invest in the infrastructure. that's why i voted against it.
madam president, we speak today for those who are silent. they're silent because they're afraid, they're silent because they're ashamed, and there are too many of them. last year alone, 3.7 million women were victims of sexual violence. as much as 80% of violence is never reported to the police. particularly sad are the instances of peer violence on social networks where children adopt behavior that is unacceptable. we must combat this problem with legislative measures harmonised at union level. no declaratory measures are sufficient here. i must emphasize that the budget for fighting violence is about a thousand times less than what is actually needed. we need to end the culture of silence where the victim of a crime feels shame. the commission should be ashamed of itself, but also of the commission, which has so far refused to deal with this problem. i hope you'll change that, commissioner.
madam president, the fact that we will be announcing dr. denis mukwege as the winner of the sakharov prize tomorrow speaks volumes about the reasons why he will receive this award, and that is the fight for the dignity of women. so was malala last year. that's one optimistic fact. the second is the fact that mrs. vera jourová has become our commissioner and that she has explicitly gender equality in her portfolio, that is, care for women. the third fact that we all witnessed here today was the holy father's address to pope francis, who told us and commanded us that we must put man and dignity back at the center. so these facts make me optimistic. however, every year here on 25 november, whether in this parliament or elsewhere, we symbolically commemorate the fight against violence against women and i think that this should not be limited to symbols. i agree that we must urgently ratify the istanbul convention.
written. over 3,000 people lost their lives trying to reach europe in the first nine months of this year. that's almost double what it was last year. and as the number of migrants killed grows, the funds for emergency rescue operations are being significantly reduced. operation triton will not have the resources to do it. its reach will be smaller even than operation mare nostrum, which was financed by italy alone. it is welcome but it is by no means a solution or an adequate joint response by the european union to the tragedy it is facing. the problem of migration should not be a problem of the member states only, whose borders and coasts migrants arrive in search of a better life. the increased border controls and denial of support upon their arrival will not deter others who intend to seek asylum in europe. if the european union is to be judged by how it treats the most needy in society, and migrants certainly belong there, then we need to quickly reassess our current approach and fundamentally reform it. because the rating for what we're doing today is not high.
member of the commission. - i'd like to thank you for today's debate. it gives me the opportunity to reiterate once again my commitment to improving people's working conditions and to pay particular attention to the protection of health and safety at work. i have noted many of your points of interest and concerns. i cannot comment on everything, that would be going too far, but i understand that you think that strategy has come rather late. we must do so and we will try to implement it as best we can. the framework is there now, and that is a good thing. it is aimed at the effective implementation of the agreements reached. it is aimed at prevention and it is also aimed at responding to demographic developments, including the fact that we are facing an ageing working population. as i said, we are currently carrying out an ex post evaluation of the acquis communautaire, of all the legislation we have - more than 24 directives are being examined. we will continue to examine in a transparent and organised way what we have to do. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i understand from the debate that you are calling for a great deal of attention to be paid to safety and health at work in smes. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem. so the safety and health of the people must be guaranteed there too. i agree with you that fewer rules should not be allowed to come at the expense of protection. that is not to say that we should not examine whether we can provide good protection with fewer rules, and that is one of the exercises that will take place. as for the number of accidents, it remains high. some of you have mentioned figures, each accident is one too many, so we can never be satisfied. however, what i have learned from the evaluation of the previous strategic framework is that the number of accidents has decreased. at the same time, we must be aware that new and different risks are emerging and we must take this into account in the future approach to this important policy area. one of them you mentioned, namely mental health and stress at or in connection with work. this was addressed in the previous strategic framework and i am pleased that in the current strategic framework mental health is given priority as one of the challenges. we all know the situation of people who are constantly available. everybody's connected 24 hours a day. we all carry these instruments with us, and these are things that can, of course, add to the stress and need to be looked at. what is happening in this area is that the european agency for safety and health at work is currently running a campaign for healthy workplaces in europe, and it is called healthy work places manage stress. these are matters which are still in the early stages, but they are matters which clearly show that we are not talking about words here, but that there is real political action being taken in this area. there is also a joint action on mental health and wellbeing at work coordinated by our directorate-general, together with dg sanco. that dg has been renamed, consumer protection has been removed, and is now called dg health. this brings together a number of people from member states who are looking at mental health in the workplace, including in the care professions. i think we may be able to get a lot of that too. special attention has also been paid to the dangers of asbestos, among other things. we know that asbestos has been banned in europe for many years, but that it is still present in some buildings and that people in the construction sector, especially those responsible for maintenance or those involved in the demolition of buildings, may still be at risk. we are well aware of that. however, we also know that there is legislation in this area which protects people and i would like to add that this piece of legislation is also involved in the evaluation process of the 24 directives we are currently looking at; i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. i can only tell you then what political direction we think we should take. asbestos is certainly a focus. mrs jongerius asked the question: what about military and police officers? i have to be honest, i didn't know that sector wasn't covered. i can imagine a little bit why it is not covered, but we must at least look at what is preventing us from doing something for this sector and i will certainly have that looked at. i have noticed that you are very motivated to cooperate in the field of health and safety at work. i look forward to working with you, and i can assure you again: we will also ensure that there is good cooperation with all those involved and, of course, with the social partners. they are truly our partners in this. thank you for your attention and i look forward to further cooperation on this matter with you.
written. of the 217 million workers in the european union, 3 million suffer a serious accident at work every year. unfortunately, 4,000 of them end up dead. these are human fates that affect entire families, and it is ungrateful to say how much work-related injuries cost the nation in lost hours and sickness. the fact that every euro invested in prevention and improvement of safety and health at work returns two should encourage the commission to take decisive action. the strategic framework on health and safety at work is a significant step forward, but it lacks the determination. i see as key measures better protection for workers who are not in standard employment relationships, adaptation of existing regulations to the ageing of the working population and the development of european statistical mechanisms for monitoring work-related diseases. in conclusion, i join my colleagues in asking why the commission has not included specific legislative measures relating to work-related stress in the strategic framework. in a work environment where job insecurity and pressure on workers are greater than ever, this is unfortunately necessary.
mr. president, first of all, i'd like to thank mrs. thyssen, our new commissioner, for showing the ambition to address this issue and of course thank the employment committee for bringing this issue up. i believe you'll really enjoy implementing european law at the national level and actually the most important problem and the biggest problem of this directive is, it was passed as we know it 10 years ago, but unfortunately its implementation or enforcement is lagging. that's what we all have to deal with together. we know that the job market is a fertile ground for discrimination. we also know that poor information is also fertile ground for discrimination, and that discrimination, as we've heard before, can escalate into violence. and that's why it's up to us to address the most vulnerable groups, women, people with disabilities, and minorities. i trust that you will be busy, mrs. thyssen, knowing your work so far, and that together we will be able to carry out a campaign to raise awareness. that's what i think is missing.
mr. president, equal treatment for employees in hiring and promotion, regardless of gender, age, race or religion, is a fundamental prerequisite for quality business, a stable economy and a just society. whenever i have an opportunity to discuss this or similar issues, such as quotas for women on corporate boards, i feel bitter because we still have to deal with employment inequality, even though we've stepped well into the new millennium. i find it hard to believe that there are still employers today who discriminate on the basis of sex, age, race, or religion. instead of focusing on knowledge and skills, unfortunately, they do exist and are not good for themselves and their companies, nor for the european economy as a whole. the damage they do to themselves in terms of business, by choosing similar and not capable personnel, is not enough, but i think we must punish them severely, because they represent an attack on the rule of law and a valuable damage to our societies.
mr president, honourable commissioners, honourable rapporteurs, the prerequisites for effective supervision are high-quality input data on the one hand, and strong action on the perceived shortcomings on the other. these two reports reinforce this and contribute to the strengthening of the banking union, which is what we all want. that is why i largely agree with the reports proposed and this debate shows that. i agree that in order to be able to perform its supervisory role, the european central bank must also have access to confidential statistical data. however, the system must be clear and simple and take into account national procedures. when we talk about sanctions, supervision must of course be accompanied by measures that give banks a serious incentive to address the shortcomings identified. but it is important to have a good division of roles and powers of sanctioning, supervision at national and european level. i think so far these issues in the reports have been well resolved.
at the g20 meeting, president juncker announced the €300 billion investment package the commission plans to unveil before christmas, with the aim of boosting the priorities of the european economic area growth, competitiveness and jobs. in order to mobilise money over the next three years towards public and private investment, a favourable investment environment needs to be created and the absorption of funds needs to be increased. furthermore, the preparation of eib and commission projects should be strengthened. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, in particular through the european neighbourhood instrument (enpi) and the european neighbourhood instrument (enpi). the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance in the context of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe. in that regard, they should be relieved of administrative burdens. i believe that commissioner katainen will persevere in implementing the package and deliver the growth, jobs and investment that most eu citizens have been expecting since the start of the crisis in 2009. the epp central committee meeting in riga presented five pillars for growth and jobs: stability, access to capital for smes, the european single market, smart investment and strengthening industry in a connected europe. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the budget and the implementation of the budgetary discipline and the budgetary discipline of the union.
written. the investment plan for growth and development in the european union, presented by european commission president jean-claude juncker, is a great encouragement after the global economic crisis, to which the eu was not immune. the recession has not escaped croatia either, resulting in the departure of a large number of young people from croatia, as well as high unemployment, especially among young people. i welcome the announced cooperation with the european investment bank, which should provide €5 billion, while €16 billion will be provided from the eu budget, because only through coordinated action can we achieve economic growth and new jobs. the new plan will finance strategic projects related to education, research, innovation, investment in renewable energy sources, modernisation of the transport sector and more, as announced by the commission president. such strategic planning raises the optimism of croatian residents in terms of new jobs and economic growth and the additional optimism of croatian southern residents in terms of transport connectivity with the rest of the eu. in view of the strategic nature of this plan, and as a substitute member of the committee on transport and tourism and given that there is a part of the union that is not yet connected by road to the rest of the eu, i expect the commission to recognise the project of continuing the construction of the peljec bridge as strategic because it would ensure the continuity not only of the croatian territory, but also of the eu territory.
mr. president, we decided on our goals in kyoto when we realized that we were all at risk, not just the human race but all other living things. but from kyoto to copenhagen, durban, doha, lima and paris, we really thought we had done a lot, but we definitely need a global agreement. this is the key moment. you know that parliament wanted more than the commission, that the commission wanted more than the council and that finally in october the council adopted binding targets and this resolution. given that the european union contributes only 10 to 11 percent of emissions, and the united states and china contribute 50 percent, that should not discourage us from being leaders in this fight against climate change. however, we have to ask ourselves where is russia, where is india. it's good that america and china are involved, however, their goals are as far as i can tell very modest. but all of us together should not be discouraged. where are the developing countries? we have to help them. we heard from commissioner cañete that 9.6 billion euros has been invested in this fund. in any case, binding targets are important to us, and we must stick to them. we want to be compatible with the programme mr juncker presented this morning. we have to simultaneously take into account growth and development, and we remain committed to a 2°c reduction target. it is also a binding target of 30% reduction by 2030 and 50% by 2050. i'll have to use that indian for the end, we borrowed this land from our descendants and we have to take care of it.
written. i voted in favour of the draft ep resolution on the draft council regulation amending the regulation on the collection of statistical information by the european central bank, as it aligns the ecb's new supervisory obligations towards credit institutions. in addition, in order to simplify and reduce reporting procedures, the proposed amendments provide for the possibility for the ecb to use confidential statistical data for the purpose of carrying out its new duties. however, given that the ecb's amendments allow for the transfer of confidential data to the various authorities and bodies of the member states and the european union, i consider that the latter should ensure the necessary measures to protect those data in an adequate manner.
written. i supported the report of the chairman of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, robert gualtieri, on the collection of statistical data by the european central bank. regulation (ec) no 2533/98 is a key component of the legal frameworks supporting the collection of statistical information by the european central bank, assisted by the national central banks. i would point out that the ecb has consistently insisted on regulations for the implementation and monitoring of the coordinated collection of statistical information necessary for the performance of the tasks of the european system of central banks, including those tasks which contribute to the implementation of the monetary policy of credit institutions and the stability of the financial system. i welcome the amendments by the committee on economic and monetary affairs which seek to clarify the issue. it is important to emphasise that responsibility for the transmission of confidential data and careful handling of all necessary regulations, administrative, technical and organisational measures are necessary to ensure the security of confidential statistical data.
written. i supported the report on the amendment of the regulation with a view to further improving and supplementing the regulation. the european central bank is responsible for certain tasks relating to the prudential supervision of credit institutions established in the participating member states. the ecb shall be responsible for the supervision of the ecb's activities in the field of securities settlement systems. the ecb wishes to introduce new tasks in the field of prudential supervision of credit institutions by means of this amendment. the commission has also provided a detailed analysis of the measures taken by the member states to address the specific problems of the banking sector in the union.
written. - i supported the proposed amendments because they contribute to more efficient data collection. the amendments proposed by the ecd specify that the ecb may use confidential statistical information for the purposes of supervisory functions, similar to the ncbs in the field of prudential supervision. this was done to reduce the reporting burden and to collect the same data only once. in addition, the proposed amendment allows for the transmission of confidential data within the european system of central banks (escb). the rapporteur proposes to limit the transmission to data necessary for the effectiveness of the new ecb tasks to be regulated by the ssm single supervisory mechanism. the ecb, not the escb, now receives these powers.
written. - i supported this legislative regulation on the collection of statistical data by the ecb because i believe it clearly sets out the ecb's obligations and capabilities in relation to the collection of statistical data. in order to ensure the effectiveness of the statistical data collection system, i agree with the finding that the ecb should also have access to raw data of the books and records of the reporting agents, as it is essential to emphasise that, in addition to the sanctions for inaccurate, incomplete or non-compliant data, there should also be sanctions for the provision of falsified or distorted statistical data. the amendment commits the competent authorities of the member states and the union bodies to take all necessary regulatory, administrative, technical and organisational measures to ensure the physical and logical protection of confidential statistical data.
written. i voted in favour of the draft ep resolution on the draft council regulation amending the regulation on the european central bank's powers to impose sanctions because it is clear that the credibility and strength of the single supervisory mechanism must be based on the ecb's ability to impose specific sanctions. the global financial crisis has highlighted the need for better supervision and regulation of the european financial sector and for a more integrated economic and monetary union. therefore, i consider it necessary to ensure that the implementation of the ecb's powers is consistent with such an objective in order to strengthen the enforcement and supervision of the financial sector in the eu.
the economic and financial crisis has highlighted the clear need for better regulation and supervision of the financial sector in the european union. the ecb's recommendation on sanctions is important because it is an integral part of the implementation of the banking union. the ecb's supervisory tasks are to ensure that the ecb is able to exercise its supervisory functions in a manner consistent with the principles of sound financial management and prudential supervision. the ecb shall inform the european parliament and the council of the measures taken to implement this regulation by means of the electronic system referred to in article 7 of regulation (eu) no 1095/2010. it is important to highlight the publication of administrative penalties where it is proposed to commit the ecb to publish in a timely manner the fines imposed for direct breaches of union law and the sanctions for infringements of ecb regulations and decisions. i believe that transparency and uniform rules, together with better coordination, can strengthen the supervision of the financial sector in the european union. i therefore support the report by committee member for economic and monetary policy kay swinburne on the sanctions powers of the european central bank.
written. i supported the proposal for a report on the sanctions powers of the european central bank. the financial crisis has highlighted the need for better regulation and supervision of the financial sector in the eu. the new rules will ensure that all actors, products and markets are appropriately regulated and that their adoption is effectively monitored. these rules form the basis for all 28 eu member states for the proper functioning of the single market for financial services. the eurozone crisis has triggered a potentially vicious cycle of contagion and risk-taking. the european central bank aims to achieve better supervision of the financial system. in order to be fully effective, regulation must be accompanied by thorough supervision and good enforcement. the objective is therefore to improve financial sector supervision at eu level, to improve the coordination of national supervisors in order to combat risks and problems in the governance of the ecb. supervision is important for preserving financial stability in europe. the changes that will follow will have a positive impact on all member countries.
written. - the adoption of the new regulation 2532/98 has enabled the ecb to impose sanctions, and the financial crisis has shown the need for better regulation and supervision of the financial sector in the eu. so i supported new rules that ensure better financial regulation. these rules allow all 28 member states to support the functioning of the single market. this has opened up new questions. it became clear that deeper economic integration and monetary union were needed if the single currency was to be maintained. for regulation to be effective, it must be accompanied by supervision. the objective is therefore to bring financial sector supervision to eu level. the single supervisory mechanism (ssm) was introduced in november 2013 and has been fully operational since november 2014. the rapporteur complains about the lack of a quality impact assessment. understands the urgency of supplementing regulation (ec) no 2532/98 with regard to the setting up of the ssm, but believes that some shortcomings could have been addressed by a high-quality impact assessment methodology.
written. - i supported this legislative resolution on the sanctioning powers of the european central bank (ecb) because i consider it particularly important to give the ecb the power to impose sanctions as well as to publish decisions imposing administrative fines. i also support efforts to strengthen international coordination between the ecb and supervisory authorities outside the union with a view to reaching agreement on common principles and enforcement of sanctions. in order to establish a practice that applies to all member states of the union, it is important that national authorities remain competent to impose administrative penalties on credit institutions only where the ecb requests them to initiate such a procedure. i also consider the proposed solution of replacing the period of five years after the infringement has been committed by a period of three years after the initiation of the infringement procedure to be more appropriate, as this avoids the limitation period in the event that the alleged infringement is only discovered at a later stage.
mr. president, i was pleased to vote for this resolution on climate change, as it is the basis for the lima talks in early december 2014. we actually laid the groundwork a long time ago, that was in kyoto, but we haven't held up well and it's obvious that we need universal global action. i hope that lima will help, that it will be a turning point for the great summit that will happen next year in paris. anyway, it's good that the united states and china are involved. europe should not have a complex. we only produce 10 to 11 percent of the greenhouse gases, as opposed to these big ones that produce 50 percent. but we must be the leaders in this fight, and that's why i support this project. i particularly support the two-degree plan, not to worry about, but also the big binding targets for 2050, the 50 percent reduction in emissions.
madam president, i supported this resolution because climate change is a reality and we need an urgent agreement, and the lima conference is an opportunity to bring the two sides closer together, to bridge the gaps and agree on a good framework, a way forward and a path to achieve a common goal. in recent years, europe has witnessed a change in climate, from extreme droughts to extreme floods, which has not been ignored by my homeland, croatia, or our neighbours. if this continues, food production will suffer, and people will lose their homes. the man's actions have called his very survival into question. the use of renewable energy sources and energy efficiency are therefore elements of an overall european policy and opportunities for the development of green technologies that will create new jobs, protect the social security of employees and protect the environment. as a european, i am proud to live in a society that takes the threat of climate change to civilization seriously and meets its obligations.
written. i voted in favour of the un climate change conference 2014 resolution because i believe that urgent action is needed at global level, given that climate change poses a serious threat to the whole world. the fact is that scientific research has shown that co2 emissions will increase further, making the global warming situation worse. the european commission needs to make a strong commitment to tackling the global climate crisis by mobilising additional resources and efforts, out of a sense of responsibility towards future generations. the commission should also be able to use the appropriations entered in the budget to finance the measures referred to in article 3 of regulation (eu) no 1303/2013.
written. - climate change in recent years has demonstrated its power and left its cuts in society, the environment and the planet. these consequences, which are felt today in every segment of life, are the result of human activity in the past and inactivity today. climate change policy goals must be global, this is a problem that everyone must participate in for environmentally sustainable development to be a reality. we also need to ensure that the large developed countries help the less developed countries because the adaptation process is long and difficult, but it is still profitable for all in the long run. i support this resolution because it aims to ensure that the climate change conference has a constructive debate, addresses the serious consequences of climate change and highlights the lack of collective action by states. the european union is expected to be one of the main drivers of positive change. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's climate change mitigation and adaptation policy, including the implementation of the eu's climate change mitigation and adaptation strategy. economic growth must be achieved without adding to the burden on the environment.
written. - i have supported a resolution that will define the objectives of the european parliament delegation to the lima conference. the priorities should enable global partners to reach ambitious climate agreements in paris in 2015 with the main objective of halting global warming. the main objective is to keep the global increase in average temperature warming below 2°c, reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 50% by 2050, increase international 2020 targets and implement previous cop agreements, predominantly in the areas of climate finance and adaptation. the key is to strike a balance between the environment and industry, i.e. combating climate change and ensuring policies that are innovative and competitive at the same time. the environmental objectives must be ambitious and realistic in order to avoid further relocation of european industry, which would weaken the eu's leadership in the fight against climate change at global level.
written. human activities are the main cause of climate change and the only way to effectively combat its negative effects. that is why i supported this resolution. unless we take decisive action, the average air temperature will rise by five degrees by the end of the century, threatening to flood coastal parts of europe, including croatia, completely. we therefore need to defend responsibly the interests of all people, nature and future generations, and one of the key steps is to set more ambitious climate protection targets, reduce incentives for fossil fuels and enable the green climate fund to function. we can no longer fight climate change with declarations alone, but we need a clear political stance. in order to achieve concrete results at home and then globally, it is crucial to inform the public and make the authorities in their country aware of the harmful consequences and the instruments at their disposal. a number of technological advances are making it easier for us to combat climate change. however, instruments alone are not enough; a significant change in our habits and lifestyles is needed, as well as the integration of energy efficiency into our daily lives and the promotion of renewable energy sources.
written. i supported the un climate change conference resolution because we are witnessing weather disasters due to climate change on a daily basis. delaying action will increase costs and reduce the chances of progress. the lima conference is an opportunity to set key objectives ahead of the 2015 paris agreement negotiations. the parties agree to cooperate in the implementation of the agreement on climate change and the agreement on the international energy agency. the european union has reduced its greenhouse gas emissions by 19% compared with 1990 levels. the commission will continue to support the implementation of the unfccc and the unfccc sustainable development goals. the commitments made by the eu and its member states are to increase funding for climate action by capitalising the un green climate fund and jointly mobilising $100 billion a year by 2020. i would point out that croatia has also suffered great damage this year due to extreme weather conditions and a large number of croatian cities have been affected by floods.
written. - i consider this conference to be of great importance as it provides an opportunity to develop the technical elements for negotiations and build a political platform for the conference to be held in paris in december where a new global framework for climate change will be adopted (the so-called 2015 agreement). i believe that the union is in an excellent position at this moment to influence this process, since the council last month decided to reduce the eu's greenhouse gas emissions by at least 40% (compared to 1990 levels and 2030). i supported this resolution because i am convinced that the conference is a great opportunity for the union to present to the global public a positive and ambitious environmental plan, both for the territory of the european union and for all the other participants in the conference.
mr president, madam high representative, the recognition of a palestinian state should be the starting point of a new process, but it is also an act that is understandable in itself. i do not see an independent palestine as a new factor in the continuation of the long-standing conflict, but as an opportunity for a more effective search for a new peaceful solution. i say this as a participant and witness to the decay and establishment of states on european soil itself. until the international community recognized the republics of the former yugoslavia as new states, there was no peace, not even a hint, although there were many negotiations, futile of course. the recognition of a palestinian state must not be used to legitimize a terrorist showdown with israel, and guarantees must be sought in this regard. on the other hand, israel's right to self-defense has often been abused and turned into a practice of state terrorism. and something about us, the european union and the european parliament: as a so-called soft power we need to face really hard choices from time to time. we have to do this for the sake of our prospects as a role model in the 21st century.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in the year that marks the 25th anniversary of the adoption of the convention on the rights of the child, i call on you to do everything possible to ensure that children feel our care and protection and that they feel safe in a world where we make decisions. as a human rights defender, i want to warn that the rights of many children are being violated, and especially the violation of the basic human right to express the right to life. many children are hungry, homeless, and unable to get an education, which is discrimination. christian children in syria and iraq are being kidnapped by isis, isis is selling them in markets, raping girls and recruiting them, and in some parts of the world, children are being used as human shields in armed conflicts, which is unacceptable. our fathers and mothers, who raise us and teach us what is right and what is wrong, play a vital role in shaping who we become. i therefore call on the drafters of this resolution to emphasise in it the important role of the family in the upbringing and formation of children as explicitly stated in the convention on the rights of the child. i must also express a serious reservation to one segment of the resolution which introduces the term 'sexual identity' of the child for which there is no international definition which may cause numerous problems in implementation and lead to unnecessary legal proceedings before the european court of human rights or the un committee on the rights of the child. if a child reports discrimination because they are not allowed to change the gender they are seeking based on their sexual identity, many european countries will be accused of discrimination because they do not allow minors to change their gender by law, which is quite justified. i therefore call on you once again to amend the resolution to exclude the part relating to discrimination on the grounds of the 'gender identity' of the child, but i also call for amendments to emphasise the right of the child to grow up in a family with a mother and a father.
mr. president, children are our future, and it makes me happy that there is a high level of awareness about the need to protect their rights and freedoms. the fact is that children are especially vulnerable and there will always be those who will try to exploit their kindness and naivety. that's why there must be concrete policies, but also repressive measures to put an end to such behaviour. the resolution calls for decisive steps in the right direction and recommends a wide range of measures to protect children's rights and freedoms, and i therefore support it. personally, i would like to see more emphasis on the important role of the family as the primary protector of children, preparing them for life and accompanying them through all the good and bad that it brings. while i consider the spirit of the resolution to be positive, i regret that on several occasions terms relating to gender ideology have been used, because such formulations create unnecessary friction on issues on which we should be united.
mr president, 200 million unemployed, 75 million of them young people. this is a finding from brisbane, australia, the first finding that the analysis, which is unfortunately accurate, is likely to be higher. but what i'm excited about are a few things that are the result of this summit, and the first is something that is intangible. finally, the need to employ young people in a very concrete way has been mentioned on several occasions. and also extremely important, and that is the right to equality of women in the labour market and the employment of women, in the desire that women be exactly equal in that part that concerns quality employment and getting quality work. global growth is the conditio sine qua non of a way out of the crisis. how much of europe will be involved? after today's announcement, of course we expect it to be significant and that's why we are extremely excited about the need to invest in large projects, but we are even more pleased with the fact that smes are recognized as growth generators. it's also important for us to talk about climate change, about the problems that are associated with it, to talk about the green economy, which is the green climate fund, and what green industry means today and tomorrow to the world. and of course what's important is the public-private partnership that was also recognized as a growth generator at this summit, and of course what my colleagues have already mentioned, and that's extremely important is tax transparency, because there's a lot of money in the world economy that's being circulated, and unfortunately a lot of times that money is not taxed where it should be and it's not serving the function of growth.
mr. president, i signed this resolution because it is first and foremost about protecting consumers and calling for clear rules of the game in the digital marketplace. the resolution calls, among other things, for the elimination of discrimination in the digital marketplace based on the consumer's place of residence. i think this is a very important element, especially when we consider that as many as 25% of eu citizens are discriminated against when they buy online. if the causes of discrimination for just 10% of these consumers were removed, the union's gdp would increase by 1,7%. also, the digital marketplace as it is now leaves a lot of room for manipulation to the detriment of consumers. for example, each of us has at least once justifiably estimated that he has subscribed to the cost of delivery. the fact is that as many as 62% of consumers do not feel safe or are not aware of their rights. that is why we need to create clear regulations, and what is also very important, to communicate with consumers.
mr. president, we live in a digital age and our community and society are digital. so, mr. commissioner, i'm sorry you're not listening to me, but i understand you have other commitments. i would encourage you to do so when you plan and when you come out with your concept for 2015, in a way that reflects one of the freedoms of the european union. the european union is based on four freedoms, but here today we are talking, i am deeply convinced, about one new freedom because the digital age is not just about consumer protection, data protection, trade or something like that. it's like electricity, it's like water, it's like something that's really essential for every human being. in this context, i would urge you, when you really discuss and agree on a strategy, to consider that this may be the fifth freedom of the european union.
mr. president, one of the hits we hear all the time is the re-industrialization of europe. but how exactly are we going to re-industrialize europe? we're sure to lose the steel-making match. india, china, japan are becoming major producers, with raw materials coming from australia and brazil. they built steel mills by the sea, but they also built shipyards by the sea. europe was one of the largest, if not the largest, actually the largest shipbuilder at one point. today we produce about 2% of the world's shipping. to be competitive in the world we have to take the process of globalization seriously and somehow protect our industry. one of the steel markets is certainly the shipbuilding industry, which today buys steel outside the european union. so here we're really going in circles in a way, and i wonder if the reindustrialisation of europe means a return to what we know. we know how to build sophisticated and expensive ships. we must not only encourage those, so to speak, standard ships which carry more air than anything else. today we have sophisticated shipbuilding in europe and let's try to stimulate it in some way, because that's where we have innovation, because that's where we have research, because that's where we have additional development, because that's where we have additional jobs, because that's where we have additional competitiveness and that's certainly what europe is definitely looking for in this situation.
answer the question posed by raising the blue card. i would love to answer you in my native language, german, but i won't. i just want to let you know that when we talk about stimulating industry, i'm not saying that we have to go all the way and we can go all the way to compete with neither china, nor korea, nor japan, nor india in steel production. but we can in those products that follow later, and especially those that require large amounts of steel, which we can rightly protect and protect in the global market. so we're not just talking about steel production, but everything that we produce in europe thanks to steel.
mr president, mr commissioner, despite the achievements of the millennium development goals, the fact is that we still have almost a billion hungry people in the world. of these, 225 million are children under the age of five who are chronically undernourished. technological advances have made it possible, among other things, to have food for all, but despite this, children continue to die of hunger and malnutrition. it is a scandal, as pope francis has called it, whose messages i hope we have not only heard and quickly forgotten, but have embraced and supported with our long applause in this house. so there's food for everyone, but there's no justice for everyone. that is why we adopted a resolution this week on a new global framework for development and called for the european union and the international community to focus on the causes of poverty and hunger. and it is clearly stated in this resolution by mrs mcavan that there are many reasons for this. but, in summary, if we are to reason on the pope's next messages, then we must conclude that the main causes of poverty and hunger are actually selfish human behaviors and policies that have only the material interests of the most powerful at their core, and that neglect the dignity of human life throughout its duration. yes, as a christian democrat i will stress that the issue of child malnutrition shows that the dignity of human life must be protected from the very beginning. as stated in paragraph 3 of this resolution, the most important period for meeting the nutritional needs of a child is the first 1000 days of life, including the period of pregnancy. but it is not enough to say that we want to protect life from the beginning, we also need to ensure that, through effective coherent development policies, that child, when he or she is born, has access to quality nutrition, health care, education, and we must all work together to do much more. in this respect, i welcome the commission's intention to invest eur 3.5 billion, as well as the intention of the commissioner who said that he wanted strict monitoring of the implementation and evaluation of the effectiveness of these programmes. i also expect the council to support this parliament's goal of eradicating hunger altogether, the so-called zero hunger goal, in december.
mr. president, gabriela mistral, the chilean nobel prize winner wrote 70 years ago: "we are guilty of many mistakes, but our greatest crime is abandoning our children and neglecting the source of life. many things we need can wait, but a child cannot wait. it is precisely at this time that his bones are forming, his blood is being formed, and his feelings are developing. we can't answer him tomorrow, his time, or his name, is today. what have we done since then, we may ask ourselves. we are all responsible. europe is responsible. sir, thank you very much for your presentation, and i trust your commitment to this mission and this work. i am particularly grateful to you for your intention to coordinate this work, which i believe is to coordinate the internal and external policies of the european union and that is the only way we can be balanced. i also welcome your plans to have an efficiency assessment and i am confident that you will work well with this parliament. i want to thank mrs mcavan for keeping this topic alive and relevant, especially coming in the week after we adopted the post-2015 global development framework on tuesday, and i believe that this needs to be aligned, coordinated and we're going to do well. we should not forget the visit of pope francis this week, who told this parliament, and we cannot remain indifferent to his words: 'we cannot stand idly by, not only in europe but also in the world, while so much food is thrown away.' so it's up to us to act, we need to see what we can do. in any event, the millennium development goals have partially fulfilled their role. i believe there is a lot of work for us to do and we really can't just stop at words. we all have to work together.
mr. president, i am requesting that the death sentence against asia bibi, a christian mother of five, who was arrested in 2009 on false charges of blasphemy, be overturned and she be released. i demand the identification of the perpetrators of the murder of the christian couple shama bibi and shahzad masih who were beaten by a group of muslims, accusing them of burning pages of the koran and burned alive in the brick factory where they worked. i am calling for the repeal of the blasphemy law in pakistan, because its implementation violates human rights and the right to freedom of religious expression. the fact is that pakistan has an important role to play in promoting stability in southeast asia, so i call on the pakistani authorities to be an example in enforcing the law and human rights, not in violating them.
mr. president, there is no religion that can justify this kind of behavior. we are using the instruments at our disposal here today, and this resolution is one of them, and it is commendable that we have a resolution. however, the fact is that 150 million christians are persecuted worldwide. the fact is that the blasphemy law in pakistan is very repressive and intolerant and we really cannot look coolly on that after the killers of two pakistani citizens, asia bibi is sentenced to death. just because she was a christian and just because she used her water rights for her children. so, human rights are at stake on several grounds. i have a suggestion, so we're sending a message today if possible. however, i'm not sure that message will have a positive effect. i have a suggestion to mr stylianides, given that development aid is going from the union to pakistan, that we consider the way in which that development aid is sent to pakistan, and that might be a constructive suggestion.
the author. - mr. president, i fully support this resolution and its critical approach, not only to seselj, but to those who daily enable him to continue spreading hatred by historical revisionism and propagating greater serbian expansionism. however, none of this circus of his would have come to fruition if the serbian authorities had immediately closed in and condemned seselj's sick statements and behavior. it is clear to me that they were once colleagues and closest collaborators, but as the leaders of serbia today, it should be in their interest to close the war and open a new european chapter. i would also add, finally, that i am surprised and disappointed by the incredible inefficiency and bias of the hague tribunal, which has not fulfilled its historic task but has only brought additional unrest to the territory of the states of the former state.
mr president, the holy father, speaking from this very house, sent a message of hope to the peoples of the balkans, wishing to bring lasting peace to a region which has been the witness and victim of war. the hate speech of vojislav šešelj reopens the wounds of war and insults the collective memory of the citizens of croatia. aware of the risks, the international court of justice in the hague has irresponsibly opened the door to potential destabilization of the region, further undermining the credibility and trust of citizens in the international institution. i expect the institutions of serbia to demonstrate responsible behaviour as a candidate country for membership of the european union and respect for the fundamental principles of the european union. the protection of minority rights and human rights in general, and respect for diversity and the promotion of good relations in the region are necessary preconditions for cooperation. i strongly support the political parties and civil society organisations in serbia whose work is aimed at lasting peace in the region and constructive cooperation. i believe that serbia will meet the expectations set out in this european parliament resolution on its way to the european union.
the author. - mr vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, it is important in this resolution to express a position on the unacceptability of the decision of the hague tribunal to release seselj and to condemn equally his attacks on the sovereign states of the republic of croatia and bosnia and herzegovina and the exaggeration of war crimes. but seselj is sick, some say insane, a war criminal who will not be changed, and the hague tribunal is at the end of its work and is not a european union tribunal, but a united nations tribunal. serbia is the most important subject of this resolution, because it is a country on which the fate of the other western balkan countries depends to a large extent and which can influence them both for good and for bad. that's why it's important to call on the serbian political leadership to condemn seselj's hate speech and his attacks on neighboring countries, and of course it's even more important that they actually do so. and what alde has particularly insisted on, is to strengthen and enforce laws that prohibit hate speech and incite violence.
mr. vice president, the resolution strongly condemns the war-mongering rhetoric of the accused war criminal seselj after his return to belgrade. we call on the hague to reconsider the conditions of his release and to restore his own credibility. we condemn seselj's insulting of the victims in croatia, especially on the day of remembrance of the victims of the hero city, vukovar. his statements opened the psychological wounds of war victims in bosnia and herzegovina, but also created new fears for minorities in vojvodina. we also oppose the advocacy of the greater serbia project with territorial claims on neighboring countries. the resolution is a clear message to the authorities in serbia that seselj's hate speech has not been adequately addressed politically or legally. we ask the serbian institutions to investigate whether seselj has already violated serbian laws and to protect the rights of minorities. responsible democracy means accepting european values. we therefore call on serbia, which wants to join the european union, to condemn clearly the actions of šešelj. what is the problem, president nikolic, prime minister vucic, minister dacic? is ignoring it a political tactic or is the silence fear of the sesshall? your silence leaves doubt about the current authorities' position in serbia on prosecuting those responsible for war crimes. in the interest of serbia's european future, act now.
on behalf of the s&d club. mr. president, there is an emergency situation, we have an emergency resolution. it's an indicator that some regular state might be changing for the worse. unfortunately, stability and peace are still not a regular feature of the western balkans. therefore, the case of the accused war criminal, vojislav seselj, has a dimension of urgency in terms of space and time. the western balkans will long feel the consequences of the aggression, death, destruction committed in the name of the project in which seselj was an active participant. he wasn't convicted of it, he didn't repent of it, actually. his, i hope temporary, release has also relieved the fears of victims who must relive the trauma because he acts as if time had stopped in the early 1990s. i also see the resolution as an incentive for the serbian authorities to check whether seselj's hate speech violates domestic laws and support for democratic forces in serbia to resist ideas that have cost serbian neighbors and serbia so much until recently, and the european parliament that awarded dr mukwege yesterday should respond firmly to hate speech on its continent as well.
mr. president, (the beginning of the speech is not heard) is that the hague tribunal which was established to convict criminals in the territory of the former yugoslavia, has made a decision that potentially re-sparks hatred in the territory of the former yugoslavia. in this context, however inappropriate it may be to speak of court decisions, we must warn the court and the public that this decision will certainly not contribute to peace and stability. the conviction of the criminal sesheli is final here in this house and it is absolutely clear and unanimous. i also want to point out the positive fact that seselj's call for hatred and new conflicts did not meet any serious reception in serbia and serbian citizens largely ignored his views. and it is especially important that today we have a situation in which the serbian government wants a european path, mr. rama's visit to belgrade and a visit to sarajevo is something that is an indicator of good intentions at this moment by serbia.
member of the commission. - mr president, i am presenting this point on behalf of high representative and vice-president federica mogherini. i note that a number of honourable members called for an urgency debate on the decision by the international criminal tribunal for former yugoslavia regarding šešelj. i also note the important resolution adopted by parliament today. as you are aware, the tribunal took this decision on health grounds. we have noted this decision by the tribunal. we do not have further views on that decision. the tribunal is an independent international court created by the united nations and responsible for determining individual responsibility for war crimes in former yugoslavia. the european union respects the tribunal’s decision. as far as šešelj is concerned, his statements belong to an epoch which is long gone. we note that the case against him is still ongoing and that he will have to return to the tribunal when so requested by the tribunal – very important. with regard to serbia, we welcome the country’s commitment to work towards its european future and towards regional cooperation and reconciliation. cooperation with the tribunal is an important element in this context.
written. the tolerance that adorns the institution of the european parliament cannot remain silent to the war-mongering rhetoric of the accused war criminal vojislav seselj. urgent responses are needed to hate speech and condemnation of behaviour that is offensive in a historical context and in the context of european integration, acceptance and sharing of european values, democratisation and progress of serbia. it's a rare occasion and a rare topic where entire countries, in a democratic world where debate is expected, stand with all their political options united on some position. i am proud that croatian representatives of all political options in the european parliament have recognised the importance of the moment and have stood together on the side of reason and dignity. such rhetoric in serbia, which wants to go the european integration path, must have no place.
written. dear mr. president, on behalf of the murdered and displaced, those whose homes were destroyed, those who were abused in the camps, on behalf of all the victims from the area of vukovar and croatia, bosnia and herzegovina and vojvodina, i ask that the war criminal vojislav šešelj be returned to the hague prison. i ask this on behalf of all croatian defenders, and especially croatian defender veljko maric, who is being illegally detained by serbian authorities and is not being provided with the necessary medical care. the release of vojislav seselj is unacceptable, especially since the verdict against him has already been written. vojislav šešelj has made a series of public statements in which he has repeatedly called for war, incited hatred towards non-serb people and expressed territorial claims, all of which lead to the destabilisation of south-eastern europe. he violated both conditions of his release from prison, and the reaction of the serbian government as well as the reaction of the hague court was completely absent. i ask the hague court to return seselj to prison and for serbia to start behaving in accordance with european policy if it wants to be a member of the eu.
written. i voted against the motion of censure on mr juncker's commission because i believe that the committee of inquiry appointed in this case will determine whether there were indeed irregularities in the so-called 'lux leaks case' and will act accordingly. the european commission, led by mr juncker, has a truly important and ambitious role to play, which would mean that the next five years should be devoted to finding a solution to the current crisis and to raising the credibility of the european union. the new commission therefore needs to be given the opportunity and support to tackle the serious problems currently facing the eu as a whole.
written. - i do not support this proposal because i believe that such a measure is not in the interest of the european union as a community of 28 countries. furthermore, this act is clearly an attempt by the euro-phobes to weaken the european union. instead of such extreme measures, a constructive approach in the form of a reform plan is needed to ensure that economic growth and development and job creation are achieved in the european union.
written. - considering that all member states have in their tax systems acts which give tax relief to multinational companies, we must recognize the difference between relief and tax evasion which is illegal. the commission notes that the tax system of luxembourg is not based on a tax system that is taxed on a profit or loss basis, but on a tax system that is taxed on a profit or loss basis. there remains the question of the fairness of the existing context. jean-claude juncker took over as president of the european commission with 423 votes in favour in the european parliament at a time when the european union was in a difficult situation. with clear guidelines and an engaged start to his work, juncker has shown his willingness to tackle all the problems in the union. i therefore opposed the motion of censure on the commission by president juncker.
written. i vote against this motion because it is unfounded. i think that the european commission, and its president, mr jean-claude juncker, are doing a good job. they have prioritised creating growth and jobs. they are committed to a digital single market where they primarily want to break down national barriers in telecom operators' regulations, for better legislation, for copyright and data protection, for radio wave management and for better competition laws. they want to negotiate a reasonable and balanced trade agreement with the united states, but they want to be very clear that they will not sacrifice european security, social norms and data protection in europe for the price of free trade.
written. i voted in favour of the ep resolution on the temporary system of partial contributions to cover the administrative expenses of the single resolution board during the transitional period, as i believe that it is necessary to define as soon as possible the funding to cover the first administrative costs of the board. it is necessary to put in place a temporary system that will allow the board to raise funds to cover its costs until the end of 2015, including for example part of the staff and infrastructure, at an initial stage.
written. i support this resolution on the non-objection to the commission delegated regulation of 8 october 2014 on a temporary system of partial contributions to cover the administrative expenditure of the single resolution board during the transitional period, as the board will have an independent budget which is not part of the union budget and will be financed by contributions from the banking sector, in particular by contributions to the administrative expenditure of the board to be paid by credit institutions, parent companies, investment firms and financial institutions covered by the single resolution mechanism regulation. it is also important to emphasise that the smooth functioning of the board until 1 january 2015 requires the establishment of funding mechanisms as soon as possible, thereby enabling the board to cover its first administrative expenses, i.e. staff salaries, infrastructure and operational costs from its own resources, but also to be fully operational as of 1 january 2015, as required by article 98 of the single resolution mechanism regulation.
written. i voted in favour of the resolution on the delay in the implementation of cohesion policy for the period 2014-2020, as cohesion policy is currently in crisis, as evidenced in particular by the backlog of unpaid accounts and the long delay in operational programmes. implementation of new programmes needs to start as soon as possible and internal procedures need to be simplified in order to stimulate growth and jobs. i believe that cohesion policy should be one of the key eu policies, with local and regional authorities playing the same relevant role, and that the principle of subsidiarity is the best solution.
written. - i supported the initiative of mp iskra mihaylova on the delay in the start of the implementation of the cohesion policy for 2014 2020. we are aware that the implementation of cohesion policy was due to start in 2014, but at the end of the year the programming phase is far from complete. only a small number of operational programmes have been approved and the commitments foreseen for 2014 can only be maintained by carrying over the amount not used in 2014, in accordance with article 19 of the mff regulation. the problems we face are problems of lack of coordination and weak macroeconomic performance and in programme capacities through lack of strategic development and poor financial audit. the direct consequence will be significant delays in the start of the implementation of the projects. i would also point out the high turnover of personnel, the lack of resources and the overlap of programs. i believe it is necessary to harmonise the rules and to strengthen professional and administrative support by streamlining the intermediate bodies and by clarifying the division of responsibilities.
written. i am concerned about the significant delay in the implementation of the 2014-2020 cohesion policy, but i recognise the importance of adopting quality operational programmes at the beginning of the programming period to avoid subsequent amendments. i believe that the commission and the member states should show seriousness and do everything in their power to speed up the adoption of the maximum number of operational programmes as early as 2014, and also to ensure that as many programmes as possible are ready for adoption by the end of the year.
written. i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the commission's impact assessment guidelines, as it further improves the impact assessment procedures and it is important that the social, administrative and economic aspects are assessed in the same way. i believe that impact assessments should be based on complete and objective data to support decision-making in the eu institutions and should involve all relevant stakeholders to better advise.
written. - the rules and policies we adopt in the european parliament apply to all member states, so we must involve all stakeholders, including citizens, in the process of their creation. the recent crisis in the european union makes it all the more necessary to carefully anticipate all the advantages and disadvantages that individual regulations may bring, taking into account the differences within, but also the project of unification. we must not delay the decision-making process and we must develop guidelines for impact assessment for the benefit of all eu citizens, using the principles of transparency, inclusiveness and balance. that's why i voted for the resolution.
written. given the range of tools available to enable the effective implementation of the 'beginning with youth' programme, i support from the outset its objective of taking into account the interests of smes at a very early stage in order to better adapt the legislation to them, and i definitely support this resolution. on the other hand, i am concerned that the role of the impact assessment committee in the impact assessment process was not more clearly defined in the draft revised guidelines. in addition, i am concerned about the implementation of this principle because the commission has already expressed its regret at the fact that only eight member states have included the sme test in their national decision-making procedures. i believe that the impact assessment committee should continue to function as an independent quality control body within the european commission and i call for its independence to be strengthened.
written. i voted in favour of the resolution on the 25th anniversary of the un convention on the rights of the child because it calls on all eu institutions, member states, local authorities, social partners and society as a whole to work together to improve the situation of children in the european union and worldwide. today, more than ever, children face many dangers on a daily basis, including various forms of violence, man-abuse, sexual exploitation, human trafficking, and many other unwanted situations and problems, so it is of utmost importance that their rights are not violated. the enhancement of additional measures to ensure respect for children's rights develops effective guidelines for a better and more effective protection of children and their rights.
written. - in new york city, on november 20, 1989, the united nations convention on the rights of the child was adopted. this document, in its 54 articles, ensures the rights and protection of children who, because of their physical and mental immaturity, require special measures of protection and care, including appropriate legal protection before and after birth. i support this resolution and all the efforts of the organization and the institution for the care of children's rights. i believe that the most important thing is to provide my children with an equal environment to grow up in - protection from any form of violence, providing basic living conditions, education and peaceful growth. today, children's rights are systematically violated in underdeveloped countries, where children are exploited as cheap labor, while being abused in war zones and living in extreme poverty. it's time to develop a long-term plan to address these problems, but also to define new forms of child abuse, such as cyberbullying, and how to combat them.
written. - with the adoption of the un convention on the rights of the child in 1989, children were for the first time internationally recognized as human beings with inherent rights. since its adoption, the convention has become the fastest and most widely ratified human rights treaty that equates children's rights with those of adults. the most important aspect is that children born after the adoption of the un convention on the rights of the child have many more opportunities and rights than children born in 1989. children today have the right to report violations of their basic rights on their own, knowing that their safety will be guaranteed. children's courage marked this year when young female education activist malala yousafzai of pakistan and child rights activist kailash satyarthi of india were selected as nobel peace prize winners. to support children in war-torn countries, the european union launched the eu children of peace initiative, which has provided education for more than 108 000 children. the republic of croatia has been included among those advanced countries that have undertaken the obligation to ensure and protect human rights and fundamental freedoms. violence against children, 25 years after the signing of the convention, is a cruel reality and we are obliged to ensure that every child has adequate access to justice and respect for the right to identity from birth.
written. as we celebrate the 25th anniversary of the un convention on the rights of the child on november 20, we can say that much has been done in 25 years when it comes to children and their fundamental rights. this is an opportunity to look back on those 25 years and to witness how much the world has changed, from the fall of the berlin wall, whose anniversary we also marked in brussels, to globalisation and the enlargement of the european union to today's 28 members. although much has been done in the last 25 years on children and their rights, we still see problems such as poverty and education for all and other problems that we still need to actively work on to combat. one of those problems is the new trend of cyberbullying or violence that children are finding on social media and the internet, and it can really have negative effects on the children who are victims, so we need to take an active role in raising awareness about this issue. there is also a growing perception of gender equality and the empowerment of girls from an early age. i welcome the work done so far on child protection and support the remote working and positive guidelines for child protection and development that will be of value to all children in the union, including children from croatia.
written. - i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the digital single market because today's society is fully geared towards the digital age and the european union is lagging behind in certain segments. the digital age is becoming a kind of fifth european freedom, as it represents not only data and consumer protection, but also an essential issue and a way of life. the commission should also be able to provide the necessary information to the member states to enable them to assess the impact of the proposed measures on the union's energy market.
written. - i support this resolution which aims to accelerate the establishment of a digital single market. the digital single market can contribute to the growth of the union's gdp by at least 4% by 2020. it offers possible solutions to key european challenges: economic recovery, better labour markets, more efficient public services and a smarter, 'greener' union economy. secondly, it can be a key driver of productivity and competitiveness, fostering growth and innovation, while also offering major benefits to consumers through low prices, better quality and more choice. action is needed to improve the online business environment, strengthen consumer confidence, the infrastructure foundations and the legal framework for the protection of intellectual property on the internet. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the digital single market and its impact on the union's economy. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and to monitor the implementation of the new rules and to monitor the implementation of the new rules. i believe that in the future this situation will change as quickly as possible thanks to the strengthening of the single market in the field of digitalisation of labour.
written. - i think it is important to emphasise the importance of a digital single market that will create a harmonised and integrated european market for digital and online technologies without barriers. the creation of a single market will boost investment in new technologies and create a market with enhanced cross-border online trade. the single market has great potential to help european industry grow by creating infrastructure for companies of the future and increasing investment in start-up companies. even with high unemployment, the internet offers five possible jobs for every two lost. i would emphasise the economic impact of a digital single market that would increase the use of ict and online services in the private and public sectors resulting in increased innovation and productivity of eu companies in all sectors. in line with the report of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection on the new digital market, i would stress the possibility of an annual increase in gdp compared to the current estimate of eur 656 billion per year. with constant changes in all spheres of life and the unstoppable development of new technologies, everyone needs digital skills to participate in today's fully digitalised world. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the digital single market and its impact on the eu's economy and society.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's digital single market and its impact on the eu's citizens. furthermore, the completion of the single market would make life much easier for consumers and citizens in the european union, and would enable businesses and firms operating globally to offer customers easier access to products. the single european market is expected to create jobs and potentially generate 4% of the european union's gdp. the protection of personal data and privacy and the security of electronic communications must be mentioned in order to give citizens of the european union confidence in the single market system. i welcome positive innovations that benefit the citizens of croatia and the european union.
written. i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on child malnutrition in developing countries because i believe that an integrated approach and concerted action in many areas can effectively tackle the problem of child malnutrition, especially at the crucial stage of their development, namely the first 1000 days of life. in addition, the resolution stresses the importance of literacy and education, especially for girls, who will one day become mothers-to-be, and that investing in them will increase the likelihood that their descendants will live healthier and more productive lives. the resolution calls for better policies, global but also local action, to create an enabling environment for better nutrition and health for children.
written. - malnutrition and malnutrition are the cause of at least one-third of child deaths in developing countries and the leading cause of death for 20 percent of mothers. we need to be aware that the root of this problem is human nature, and accordingly it is our responsibility to avoid the problem. humanitarian and other forms of relief must be provided in a timely manner, and food and drinking water, social protection, public health, energy, and education must be provided. i support this resolution because it is our duty to fight to ensure normal living conditions for future generations. looking at the bigger picture, we can see that this is also an economic problem that affects the global potential of society, reduces economic productivity, the potential income of individuals and the human capital of countries.
written. - i supported the initiative of congresswoman linda mcavan on the issue of child malnutrition in developing countries. i would remind you that the physical and cognitive impairments caused by malnutrition in the first thousand days of a child's life are irreversible and can no longer be cured. so i find it worrying that more than 165 million children under the age of five are malnourished, while some 52 million of them suffer from severe malnutrition. we must recognize that malnutrition is also an economic problem that affects the global potential of societies, reducing economic productivity, the potential income of individuals and the human capital of nations. to combat child malnutrition, we must act in a timely and effective manner. i would stress the importance of an integrated approach and coordinated action across a number of sectors that coordinate policies in the areas of rural development, sustainable agriculture, public health, water and sanitation, social protection and education, together with the responsible involvement of all stakeholders.
written. i supported this resolution on child malnutrition in developing countries, which aims to fight the scandal of world hunger. despite the achievements of the millennium development goals, there are still nearly a billion hungry people in the world. of these, 225 million are children under the age of five who are chronically undernourished. technological advances have made it possible, among other things, to have food for all, but despite this, children continue to die of hunger and malnutrition. as a christian democrat, i would like to stress that the issue of child malnutrition shows that the dignity of human life must be protected from the very beginning. so i am very pleased that my amendment to this resolution was adopted, and now paragraph 3 of the resolution clearly states that the first 1,000 days of a child's life, including the gestation period, are the most important for meeting the nutritional needs.
written. i think we have to be aware that even though we are living in 2014, the number of nearly a billion people who suffer from hunger is really alarming. furthermore, at least 225 million of these children under the age of five suffer from chronic malnutrition, which in turn slows down their development. according to the report, there are many reasons for this devastating outcome. the main causes are human choices that could have been avoided, unequal distribution of resources, poor governance, and unfortunately the problem we face today, which is discrimination against women and lack of education, especially for mothers. we need to be proactive in tackling this problem and tackling issues like storage in a big way, especially with children.
written. - i support the launch of this overarching issue of child malnutrition in developing countries for a myriad of reasons. one of them is the recognition of the need to constantly create programs to fight malnutrition, because they are, among other things, also a very profitable investment because malnutrition leads to conflict, poverty and social insecurity. i also agree with the finding that it is the lack of timely and effective action that is the most common cause of malnutrition. i find it particularly useful to propose support for scaling up nutrition, an innovative movement in which countries work with partners through two specific approaches specific dietary interventions and specific dietary approaches. i find the commission communication improving nutrition for mothers and children in external aid: an eu strategic framework extremely useful as it promotes a multisectoral approach that aligns policies in the areas of rural development, sustainable agriculture, public health, water supply, sanitation, social protection and education; but at the same time i fully support the question raised by mrs mcavan about its effectiveness, i.e. about better coordination.
member of the commission. - madam president, commissioner vella regrets that he is not able to be in strasbourg today. he is in brussels at the fisheries council, but he has asked me to present the views of the commission on this file to you. i would like, first of all, to thank ms ayuso and ms herranz garcía for their excellent and efficient work on this particular file. when presenting these political guidelines to parliament in july, president juncker made clear that one of the aims of the new commission is to reinforce the eu as a strong global actor. the eu accession to the cites convention is to be seen in this context. the cites convention aims to make international trade in wildlife species sustainable. it is a very operational and efficient instrument that regulates millions of cross-border movements of animals, plants and commodities derived from them, such as timber, leather goods, medicines, cosmetics and food products. in total, we are talking about 35 000 species that are covered by cites. this wide scope, combined with the legally binding nature of its decisions and its robust compliance mechanism, makes the cites convention a critical tool to address the overexploitation of natural resources, which is one of the biggest threats to biodiversity today. the cites convention stands at the crossroads of environment, trade and development. these are all areas in which the eu is a leading actor on the international scene. these are also areas in which the eu has strong legislation and policies. the eu’s accession to the convention will reflect its leading role, and it will increase the eu’s visibility and accountability. the situation will be similar to the other organisations such as the wto, the fao or the convention on biological diversity, of which the eu has been a full member for many years. in operational terms, the way we prepare for cites meetings will not change much after the eu accession, as there is a well-established practice to agree on common eu positions before each meeting. however, the eu will gain visibility at the cites meetings, as eu positions will be expressed by the eu on matters of eu competence. the eu will also be able to participate fully in the various bodies set up under the convention and contribute to its annual budget. this accession comes at a particularly important time. cites has recently engaged much more in regulating international trade in marine and timber species. these are very valuable commodities traded in large amounts. the eu has pushed for these, and our accession to cites will allow us to increase our investment further to ensure that the international timber and fish trades are legal and sustainable. cites is also at the forefront of the fight against wildlife trafficking, a problem which i know is important to this parliament. the current dramatic surge in wildlife trafficking calls for a strong response from the international community. at its last meeting in july, the cites standing committee adopted very concrete measures targeting the countries most involved in wildlife trafficking, particularly in ivory, rhino horns and rosewood. these measures need to be implemented within strict deadlines, and failure to do so could result in the adoption of trade sanctions. increasingly, cites is also engaging in close cooperation with international organisations like the un office on drugs and crime, and interpol, which also specialise in combating organised crime. the eu must play its role in these global efforts, and the accession to cites is a very concrete step towards facilitating this. to conclude, i would stress that the eu’s accession to cites will reinforce both the eu as a global player and cites as an essential multilateral instrument for sustainable development. the commission is aware of the interest of parliament in these matters, and we count on your support in finally making it possible for the eu to become a full party to cites.
on behalf of the ppe club. madam president, first of all we can thank mrs ayuzo and mrs garcia for doing a great job and i can tell the commissioner on behalf of the european people's party that you can count on our support, because i think this is a very important step, given that the aim of the convention is to establish worldwide controls on trade in endangered species of wild animals and plants. we know that the european union has been implementing the cites convention since 1984, but as we know, it could not sign it, because only member states could. it is therefore very important that today, or tomorrow, when we vote, the european parliament adopts the recommendation on accession to cites, because as you yourself said, in november 2013 it was possible for the union to join and become a full member. three aspects are important: development, international trade and environmental protection. we have always acted in accordance with these provisions of the convention, but we have referred to the provisions of the treaty on european union and the chapter on the environment. in order to implement this convention effectively, i believe that there is a need for continuous cooperation between all the authorities: customs, police, border, veterinary inspection, nature protection inspection. the annual value of the international wildlife trade is estimated at billions of u.s. dollars, and the illegal market is laden with annual profits from the trafficking of drugs, weapons, and people. so, we are working on the survival of more than 35 000 species, and it is good that this document has come to the european parliament, that we are protecting endangered species through the convention by banning or by a special system of permits, which makes international trade in these species very difficult. endangered species of wild animals and plants whose trade is controlled are listed in three appendices to the convention. in any event, once again on behalf of the european people's party, we support the european union becoming a global player in this area and the role of cites being strengthened.
madam vice-president, as a person who is committed to the protection of the legal order, but also to the protection of endangered wildlife, i call on the competent authorities of the european union to do everything possible to ensure that the european union accedes to the cites convention. today, the convention protects over 35,000 different plant and animal species, of which about 1,000, or 3%, are threatened or facing extinction due to trade. the republic of croatia has been a party to the convention since 2000, has achieved very notable results in the fight against trade in exotic species, and this year a very large seizure of exotic plants and animals was carried out. each year, tens of millions of plants and animals enter the international wildlife trade, worth over $10 billion a year. the extremely rare and critically endangered tortoises from madagascar fetch up to €25,000 a piece on the illegal market, and the rare lear parrots from brazil can fetch a whopping €90,000 a piece. a pound of rhino horn on the black market costs more than a pound of gold. ivory is still a luxury product and a status symbol, so raw ivory costs up to $5,000 a pound, while carved items cost much more. the demand for these products has resulted in mass poaching of these species, resulting in the killing of 22,000 elephants in 2012, and the killing of over 1,000 rhinos in south africa alone last year. unfortunately, in the process, people are also getting hurt, and globally, 56 rangers have lost their lives in the line of duty in the last 12 months, 29 of them killed by poachers. i therefore once again call on the competent authorities of the european union as a person who is committed to the protection of the legal order to accede to cites.
madam president, it is tragic what is happening to elephants in africa and elsewhere, it is tragic what is happening to rhinos. it's tragic what happens to all these extremely interesting species on other continents. but i also want to draw attention to the problems that exist in europe, i want to draw attention to those problems that exist among the member states of the european union. it is known that smugglers of these rare plants, birds, animals, and even human fish are often caught at the borders between the republic of croatia, bosnia, and herzegovina, and slovenia, respectively, and italy. i want to propose the toughest, the most severe, the most extreme penalties for those caught smuggling, especially if they are citizens of a member state of the european union.
madam president, i expect the commission to make a clear proposal on the two key pillars of our work in the european union, namely the fight against climate change, the retention of the 6% ambition and, of course, what is on the other hand, a whole department, namely the question of consumer protection. we are not talking about this consumer protection element here at all when we talk about chips, chocolates; we are talking about the fuel used by all the citizens of the european union. of course, in that context, i am a strong advocate of green economy and green investment. however, the facts and problems that exist in one part of europe, specifically speaking about estonia, is something that the european union should take into account and help such an economy. because, of course, we can't just put people out of work because of some specific situation.
mr. president, i was very pleased when you successfully passed the hearing and were elected as commissioner, because i really do expect great cooperation with you. i also want your mandate to be successful, especially when it comes to transport and road transport, because roads are definitely the lifeblood of the european economy and we can say that road transport is the lifeblood of the european economy. in this context, i am in favour of comprehensive solutions where member states have their role, but also where the european commission takes a significant lead in the management of security on the european continent when it comes to transport. i see this proposal as a step forward, but it's probably not going to be enough at this point. i therefore want to express my support in the belief that what you are going to do will make it possible to eliminate social dumping and to make traffic safer in europe.
mr president, as a representative of croatia, i welcome the informal involvement of our country in the mediterranean research and innovation partnership and i hope that these relations will be formalised soon. the mediterranean has been the centre of the known world for centuries, exchanging goods and knowledge between different cultures, resulting in enormous advances in all spheres of life for humanity as a whole. croatian territories have always been part of the mediterranean, and our scientists, artists and merchants have written the pages of the history of this civilization. croatia is thus returning to its natural environment by joining the partnership. i hope therefore that croatia's accession to prima is indeed a mere formality.
mr president, the mediterranean is of particular importance to the european union, not only because of the fact that its territory covers almost the entire northern shore of the mediterranean, but also because of the potential that action and cooperation in this area can have for the growth and development of the european union and its mediterranean partners. the creation of policies for the mediterranean began immediately after the creation of the european union, but more concrete steps were lacking until the beginning of the 1990s and the well-known barcelona process. the past two decades have been marked by numerous activities but with no visible results. conflicts in the southern mediterranean are multiplying, the problem of migration remains unregulated, and the countries involved in the euro-mediterranean programmes have not been overly prosperous, because the form of policies has changed more often than not, but not the content. given the approach taken so far, it is inevitable to ask whether the european union's policy towards the mediterranean is aimed at democratisation or is more like a policy of polarisation, and what are the possible options for getting out of the current situation? one of them is certainly the prima programme, which has already been supported by the countries on both sides of the mediterranean and the competitiveness council. the appropriate legal framework has even been found in the form of article 185 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. the current mediterranean policies have been based on a centralised top-down approach from the north to the south of the mediterranean coast. maybe the solution lies in changing the approach and focusing on the citizens, the scientists, the research centers, the small and medium-sized businesses that would really connect the two coasts. this appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the european schools for the period 2014-2020 (article 21 of regulation (eu) no 1290/2013 and article 5 of regulation (eu) no 1291/2013 as well as the costs of the european schools for the period 2014-2020 (article 22 of regulation (eu) no 1291/2013 and article 5 of regulation (eu) no 1293/2013). in view of all this, i join the calls on the commission to present a legislative proposal as soon as possible so that we can start implementing this truly commendable programme.
mr. president, i've had a chance to see firsthand just how important this program can be. i had the opportunity to be part of the union for the mediterranean, and that part was about local and regional authorities. i have participated in countless meetings with fellow mayors and regional presidents from morocco, algeria, egypt, tunisia. their expectations are very high, mr commissioner. their expectations of the european commission, of europe as a whole, of the member states are very high indeed. your focus is on research and innovation, but here i want to say, in concrete terms, really on the exploitation of water resources and the knowledge that europe has with that, i think it should be something that we need to transfer quickly, do really as soon as possible. real growth, sustainable growth, the economy, the large cities of the southern mediterranean, environmental problems, these are all areas where europe can do a lot and i expect and support the commission in these endeavours.
mr. president, i would like to welcome vice president dombrovskis and congratulate him on this report. i agree with most of my colleagues who have pointed out that the rules are important because they ensure a coherent, strategic and coordinated approach to good economic governance, and what is even more important is that they leave room for member states to find their own best solutions for smart fiscal consolidation, structural reforms and investment. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the european semester and will continue to monitor the implementation of the european semester. in addition to the implementation of reforms in each of the member states, it is of paramount importance to work persistently on reforms at the level of the european union, namely strengthening the single market through the establishment of a banking union, a digital single market, a new cohesion policy. these reforms are essential for us to create a competitive, creative, innovative europe and a europe of growth economies.
written. ‒ i voted for the re-election of ms emily o'reilly as european ombudsman because her previous work and her cv give her confidence in the successful performance of her new mandate. mrs o'reilly has been a strong advocate of improving the quality of the european union's administration and has taken concrete measures to that end. the role of the ombudsman in the overall european system is of particular importance to all eu citizens who encounter administrative irregularities, discrimination, abuse of power and other issues. i believe that ms o'reilly will make an additional contribution to the role of european ombudsman in the next mandate.
written. ‒ the ombudsman acts on the basis of a complaint or on his own initiative in cases where there is evidence of maladministration by an eu body or institution. the responsibilities of the european ombudsman are important because it is through the european ombudsman that european citizens can obtain legal protection in the event of irregularities in the activities of the institutions, bodies, offices or agencies of the european union. ms. o'reilly has proven herself during the hearing as a quality candidate with the necessary knowledge and experience to perform the duties of this position and therefore i support her candidacy for this responsible position.
written. ‒ i supported the re-election of ms emily o'reilly to the post of european ombudsman, to which she was first elected on 3 july 2013 in the european parliament. at the end of her short first term, ms o'reilly presented a report on the european ombudsman's activities during 2013. i believe that, so far, ms o'reilly has done her job well and has effectively represented the institution of the ombudsman a symbol of democracy and the rule of law. she made an excellent presentation of her candidacy to the nominating committee during the hearing when she described her office's strategy for the next five years. it is important to note that the strategy for the period up to 2019 was presented as a result of a dialogue with representatives of civil society, the business sector, the european parliament and the heads of the institutions and agencies of the european union that lasted for several months. i wish ms o'reilly success in her new mandate and invite her to continue to work with the european parliament in pursuing the ambition to raise the institution of the european ombudsman to a higher level of effectiveness.
written. ‒ i consider the work of the current ombudsman to be aimed at increasing the transparency and accountability of the european institutions and therefore support her re-election. the ombudsman has shown through a series of actions her desire to improve democratic processes in the european union, one example being the increased involvement of all stakeholders in the process in the discussion of key issues. i particularly welcome the ombudsman's appeal to the commission to request public access to all important documents relating to the transatlantic trade and investment agreement between the us and the eu. the key documents related to this agreement have not been made public, and most members of the european parliament do not have access to them. some areas of the negotiations still raise a number of uncertainties, such as the question of gm products being allowed on the us market. i commend the ombudsman's work to date, support her re-election and call on her to continue to work even more persistently to strengthen the democratic nature of the european union.
written. - i support the choice of mrs. o'reilly. the ombudsman's role is to act on a complaint or on his own initiative in cases of maladministration by an eu body or institution. given that during the hearing and the experience ms. o'reilly has demonstrated as a quality candidate, i support her choice for this position. the responsibilities of the european ombudsman are important because it is through the european ombudsman that european citizens can obtain legal protection in the event of irregularities in the activities of the institutions, bodies, offices or agencies of the european union, and the legal protection of every citizen is a fundamental objective of the european union.
written. ‒ i supported emily o'reilly in her election as the new european ombudsman. i think that in a time when politics and the public sector are dominated by men, it's positive to see a woman, at least when we're talking in the context of gender equality. emily o'reilly, in addition to being a woman, is the author of three books and has a proven career, responsibility and adequate skills to perform the function of european ombudsman. the ombudsman's responsibilities are numerous, but the key role of the ombudsman is to make fair decisions on complaints about the administration of the eu institutions. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. i believe that ms o'reilly has the appropriate experience and will contribute to a more efficient and transparent functioning of the institutions and to communication with the citizens of the union.
written. ‒ i support the candidacy of emily o'reilly as european ombudsman because i consider that she fulfils all the conditions laid down in the regulations governing the performance of the above-mentioned duties. i believe that the candidate has so far been successful in her role as ombudsman and i believe that she will continue to be successful in her further work in investigating cases of maladministration in the institutions of the european union, including lack of transparency and refusal to provide information or documents to citizens by over-bureaucratized administration in the institutions and bodies of the european union. during her career as a political editor, reporter and writer, she has received considerable domestic and international recognition, and in 2003 became the first woman to hold the office of irish ombudsman. her successful performance as european ombudsman and her career achievements so far in the previous mandate are my main reasons for supporting this candidate.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution repealing the council directive on the assistance of the commission and the cooperation of the member states in the scientific examination of food-related matters, because it repeals rules which have become redundant and obsolete. the commission should also be able to provide the necessary information to the member states and the commission on the implementation of the new rules. the repeal of the council directive in question was also brought about by the very fact that the european food safety authority (efsa) became the body for the promotion of scientific cooperation, taking over the activities entrusted to the scientific committee for food.
written. ‒ in the context of the current refit (regulatory fitness and performance programme) which started in 2012 with the aim of ensuring a simple and understandable regulatory framework, the commission has committed itself to repealing obsolete laws. accordingly, it is proposed to repeal the directive on the assistance to the commission and cooperation between member states in the field of scientific research and food testing. the objective of this directive was initially to ensure the continuous operation of the scientific committee for food by promoting scientific support from the member states and organising cooperation with the competent national authorities on scientific matters relating to food safety. however, in 2002, the tasks entrusted to the scientific committee for food were taken over by the european food safety authority (efsa). the directive on the assistance to the commission and cooperation between member states for the purposes of scientific research and food testing has therefore become obsolete and i have supported this report.
written. ‒ the aim of council directive 93/5/eec was to ensure the proper functioning of the scientific committee for food by promoting scientific support from the member states and organising cooperation with the relevant national bodies on scientific matters in the field of food safety. the tasks of the scientific committee on food under the directive have been transferred to the european food safety authority (efsa) and are currently regulated by regulation (ec) no 178/2002 of the european parliament and of the council. the commission committed itself to repeal redundant and obsolete rules when it launched the regulatory fitness and performance programme (refit) and therefore supported the report by mr la vie on the repeal of that directive.
written. ‒ i supported this proposal to abolish the scientific committee for food and to transfer all its 1993 powers to the european food safety authority. i believe that this decision will bring us one step closer to a healthier and better controlled food within the eu single market. the effective functioning of the european food safety authority is of particular importance in view of the current threats to genetically modified food and the lowering of standards due to the transatlantic trade and investment partnership (ttip). the results of recent monitoring of maize crops in germany, switzerland and belgium have shown that we need to be more cautious about controlling the only gm plant that is allowed to be grown commercially in the eu. the commission has also concluded that the presence of gm maize in the union is a serious threat to the health and safety of consumers and consumers, and that the risk of gm maize spreading to the union is not significant. i expect this agency to be independent and scientifically competent in order to protect european consumers and agriculture.
written. ‒ i have supported this directive of the european parliament and of the council repealing council directive 93/5/eec of 25 february 1993 on the assistance to the commission and cooperation between member states in the scientific examination of questions relating to foodstuffs, because the directive itself has become redundant. in accordance with regulation (ec) no 178/2002 of the european parliament and of the council, the tasks of the scientific committee on food set out in directive 93/5/eec were transferred to the european food safety authority (efsa) and those tasks are currently regulated by regulation (ec) no 178/2002. accordingly, efsa also became the competent authority for the promotion of scientific cooperation with member states and relevant national authorities operating in areas falling within the remit of efsa. article 22 of regulation (ec) no 178/2002 provides in particular for close cooperation between efsa and the competent authorities in the member states and vice versa in order to ensure the achievement of its mission.
written. ‒ i supported this legislative proposal because it provides a clear, stable and predictable regulatory framework for businesses, workers and citizens. it replaces directives that are not in line with the market requirements that industries face today. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council. to that end, it is necessary to renew cooperation with the european food safety authority. all these changes are essential to improve legal regulation and the real security of the citizens of the european union.
written. ‒ i support the commission's proposal to repeal council directive 93/5/eec on the assistance to the commission and cooperation between member states in the scientific examination of questions relating to food. i consider that the commission's obligation to repeal outdated and redundant rules and to ensure a simple, stable and predictable regulatory framework for businesses, workers and citizens with the new proposal is a good one. guided by the data on the work of the european food safety authority (efsa), i support the close cooperation of the agency with the competent authorities in the member states to ensure maximum efficiency in the fulfilment of its mission. the work of the european food safety authority shall provide a mechanism for the exchange of information and cooperation between competent national authorities on scientific matters in the field of food safety.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution on the draft council decision on the accession of the european union to the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora as it is an international instrument whose purpose is to protect animals and plants by monitoring their international trade. i support the european union's accession to cites, the convention, because european interests and needs will be represented on the international stage through the eu, balancing the positions of individual member states and representing a greater negotiating weight. the european union's environmental policy, through cites, will also gain greater power to achieve its objectives, especially in the sector of trade in animals and plants.
‒ the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites) is the main international instrument aimed at protecting endangered species by controlling international trade. the convention covers over 35,000 species listed in three annexes according to the degree of protection they require, and ensures that international trade does not threaten their survival. the parties shall endeavour to ensure that the convention is applied in accordance with the provisions of this agreement and the relevant provisions of the convention. the aim of the report is to support the cites convention within the framework of the european union and therefore the president of the council is invited to designate the person who will be authorised to continue to carry out the activities on behalf of the european union. i support this report and consider that the acceptance of cites by the european union is a logical and necessary step to ensure that the european union continues to fully meet its environmental policy objectives.
written. ‒ the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites) aims to ensure that international trade in specimens of wild fauna and flora does not threaten their survival. although the original text of the convention provided that only states could be members of cites, an amendment to the convention was agreed on 30 april 1983 after it had been ratified by two thirds of the 80 states party to the convention at the time of adoption of the amendment. the amendment of the convention has enabled the european union to become a party to cites. the eu is expected to pay 2,5% of the total cites trust fund in 2015 and an annual amount of approximately eur 115.000.00 as this is in line with the practice of other acceding parties. the european union's access to cites will enable it to monitor the work of the convention, and in accordance with the treaties and established practice for external representation. this will allow the commission to conduct future negotiations on behalf of the european union and to reach a compromise with all 28 member states. when it becomes a party to cites, the european union will grant formal responsibilities and become accountable to other parties for the application and enforcement of the convention. for these reasons, i supported the adoption of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the accession of the eu to the convention prepared by my colleague pilar ayuso.
written. ‒ i supported the adoption of the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora because i believe we need to step up our efforts to prevent uncontrolled international trade in endangered species. international trade is threatening more than 35,000 species of wild animals and plants, and further commercialisation will cause their complete extinction. it's a worrying fact that this market is accumulating $10 billion a year. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. many people are unaware that buying a crocodile skin bag or ivory jewelry requires a permit or pass to ensure that the species is not endangered. the reckless exploitation of natural resources in a linear economic system, as well as the illegal trade in products made from endangered plant and animal species, leads to an imbalance that is not sustainable. the european union is a major player in the fight against illegal trade in endangered species of wild animals and plants, and the adoption of a convention at eu level is a decisive step towards protecting biodiversity not only in europe but also in the world.
written. ‒ i support this recommendation because it is in line with the european union's objectives on the conservation of wild flora and fauna. the protection of the environment is one of the european parliament's priorities. it is necessary to establish legal supervision of endangered wild flora and fauna. it is necessary to establish cooperation between inspection services, police and customs in order to implement this convention effectively, taking into account that illegal trade in endangered plant and animal species is one of the most profitable ways of illegal gain.
written. ‒ i support the adoption of the cites convention by the european union as it confirms its commitment to environmental policy and to meeting its objectives. we need to take into account diversity and development, as well as legal and sustainable international trade. i believe that the implementation of the convention will reduce the illegal trade in endangered species of animals and plants which, at $19 billion, after the trade in drugs, counterfeit products and human trafficking, is the most lucrative form of illegal profit today. the cites convention, more than 40 years old, directly protects over 35,000 endangered animal and plant species. i am therefore pleased that meps have supported this request, as this problem needs to be tackled seriously and systematically so that many endangered species are not only available in encyclopedias.
written. ‒ i supported the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites) because it allows the european union and its member states to work with a number of countries to protect some 35 000 different endangered species of plants and animals, which can be achieved by prohibiting and monitoring international trade in these species. i find the role of cites particularly useful because it has been making a huge effort to curb international trade in endangered species by establishing control mechanisms throughout the wildlife supply chain, from the country of origin to the final destination. i also fully agree with the above conclusion that only close cooperation between all bodies involved in the implementation of this convention at national and international level and the punishment of those who violate its provisions can fully ensure the achievement of the objectives.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution on the draft council decision on the conclusion of a cooperation agreement on a civil global navigation satellite system between the european community and its member states and the kingdom of morocco, as the agreement will strengthen cooperation with morocco in the field of satellite navigation and implement many elements of european satellite navigation programmes. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the agreements and the implementation of the agreements concluded between the european union and morocco. i believe that this agreement will benefit not only industry but also the scientific community and citizens, as the areas of cooperation include training, scientific research, industrial production activities and others.
written. ‒ i support the report on cooperation on the civilian global navigation satellite system (gnss) between the european union and its member states and the kingdom of morocco. the sectors of cooperation in satellite navigation and timekeeping covered by the agreement are: scientific research, industrial production, training, applications, service and market development, trade, radio spectrum issues, integrity issues, standardisation and certification the agreement is expected to further strengthen joint activities in these sectors for the benefit of citizens, industry and scientific institutions. it should be noted that the proposal has no impact on the budget of the european as a country in the european union's neighbourhood, morocco is eligible to join the framework programme for research and innovation (figure 2). in addition, morocco and the eu signed an agreement on scientific and technical cooperation between the european community and the kingdom of morocco. in this context, morocco can contribute to gnss research in the context of research and innovation programmes. the eu and morocco are in the process of signing a letter of intent on cooperation in the field of gnss, confirming their intention to promote cooperation in this area and the intensive use of services based on european gnss programmes in the field of to the mediterranean.
written. ‒ speaking of experience in space technology, the kingdom of morocco is a country that competes with its expertise, so it is not surprising that it wants to expand the use of satellite navigation not only in its own territory, but also in other surrounding regions. since it had created a good basis for further development with european companies in the industrial and space sectors, the minister for infrastructure and transport sent a letter with the aim of concluding a cooperation agreement with the european community, and in respect of the civil satellite radio navigation system. the agreement between the european community and the kingdom of morocco was signed on 12 december 2006 on the basis of a council decision granting morocco the possibility of acceding to the framework programme for research and innovation (horizon 2020). the agreement on scientific and technical cooperation will enable morocco to contribute to gnss research in the context of eu research and innovation programmes. i consider that the security of energy supply, energy systems, the stability and predictability of energy policies and the management of energy resources are important prerequisites for the fundamental achievement of economic growth and development in each country and i supported the recommendation to conclude the agreement with morocco.
written. ‒ the objective of this agreement is to conclude the negotiations on a cooperation agreement on a civil global navigation satellite system between the member states and morocco. the purpose of this proposal is also to strengthen synergies with morocco in the field of satellite navigation. morocco has good experience and track record in the field of space technology and applications and an agreement would be mutually beneficial. the parties shall cooperate in the development of a comprehensive and coherent approach to the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment, including through the development of a comprehensive and coherent approach to the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment. the implementation of this contract will strengthen joint activities in the above areas for the benefit of society and industry, and the benefits of the use of satellite radio navigation in the territory of the european union will be a good incentive for the growth and development of various industries.
written. ‒ the proposal for this act is to conclude the cooperation agreement between the member states of the union and morocco, proposed by the council, on a civil global navigation satellite system. the european union attaches great importance to cooperation with its neighbours, because only through strategic partnerships can prosperity be ensured for the union and its neighbours. the focus of this proposal is to strengthen synergies with morocco in the field of satellite navigation, and we are well aware of the importance of such systems. it is known that morocco has made great strides in the field of space technology and applications, while the use of satellite radio navigation in the territory of the european union will benefit everyone. this agreement can also be seen in the context of job creation and will directly link scientific research, industrial production, market development and trade. the agreement is good and will benefit citizens and industries on both sides and that is why i supported it.
written. ‒ i supported the cooperation agreement on a civil global navigation satellite system (gnss) between the european community and its member states and the kingdom of morocco as i believe it will strengthen cooperation with morocco in the areas of satellite navigation, industrial production and scientific research. this agreement will facilitate cooperation between the two parties and strengthen the european and moroccan contribution to the global navigation satellite system and further strengthen joint activities for the benefit of citizens, industry and the scientific communities.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution on the draft council decision renewing the agreement on cooperation in science and technology between the european community and ukraine, because that agreement strengthens the cooperation, which already exists, in the areas concerned. i also support the fact that the european commission services will oversee all activities to be carried out under the agreement and which will enable the exchange and transfer of knowledge and skills. it is necessary to ensure controls that take into account the impact indicators and the data collected in order to implement the agreement in the most correct and efficient manner. in this respect, i believe it is positive to intensify cooperation activities with ukraine in the context of its european path.
written. ‒ i supported the report on the renewal of the eu-ukraine agreement on cooperation in science and technology. this initiative will enable both sides to enhance and intensify cooperation in the field of science and technology, further exchange of specific knowledge and transfer of know-how, to the benefit of the scientific community, industry and citizens of both ukraine and the european union. the agreement is based on the principles of mutual benefit, mutual access to programmes and activities, non-discrimination, effective protection of intellectual property, fair distribution of intellectual property rights, and effective use of results. the renewal of this agreement will allow for an increased concentration of scientific knowledge leading to easier market access.
written. ‒ in order to maintain the continuity of cooperation between the european community and ukraine in the field of science and technology and after the expiry of the abovementioned agreement of 7 november 2014 which legally governed this cooperation, i support the ep's recommendation to invite the council to take a decision on the renewal of the agreement on cooperation in the field of science and technology with ukraine. the agreement was signed on behalf of the union and ukraine on the basis of the principles of mutual trust, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, and the rule of law. the renewal of this agreement will allow for the continuation of the exchange of scientific achievements as well as help in creating new market opportunities in ukraine and the eu. the renewal of the agreement is of a technical nature and the new agreement will have the same content as the one that expired in november 2014. in accordance with this, and taking into account the ratification of the eu-ukraine association agreement, i believe that the eu should continue its cooperation in science and technology with ukraine.
written. ‒ given the particularly difficult political, economic and social situation facing ukraine, i support this initiative which will help the growth and renewal of ukrainian society, especially when it comes to the scientific field. cooperation in science and technology enables the dissemination of knowledge, the acquisition of experience, economic and financial growth, the growth of production, the growth of industry. this will have a positive impact on job creation. the european union is one of the world leaders in technology and science. the commission will continue to support the development of the ukrainian economy and the development of the ukrainian economy, in particular through the implementation of the eu strategy for the development of the ukrainian economy. it is well known that science is a field that generates social development and drives the economy, so i support this report.
written. ‒ by adopting this agreement, we have once again shown our solidarity with the ukrainian people who have encountered a difficult situation that is reminiscent of the events in croatia in the 1990s. that's one of the reasons why i supported him, but also other initiatives that will help ukraine grow, in every segment, and especially in the scientific one. cooperation in science and technology facilitates the dissemination of knowledge, the acquisition of experience, economic and financial growth, the growth of production and the growth of industry. this will have a positive effect, creating new jobs. the european union is among the world leaders in the development of technology and science. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the new eu-ukraine association agreement, which will be published in the official journal of the european union. priorities need to be set, and science should certainly be among them. i hope there will be more initiatives like this.
written. ‒ i support the decision to renew the agreement on cooperation in science and technology between the european community and ukraine. in view of the existing cooperation between the european community and ukraine, i consider that the renewal of the agreement for a further five years will be in the interest of both parties to maintain the continuity of scientific and technological cooperation and will allow for further exchanges and transfer of knowledge and experience for the benefit of the scientific community, industry and citizens. the parties shall cooperate in the development of the best available scientific and technological resources and in the development of the necessary scientific and technological capacities.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement on the participation of the republic of croatia in the european economic area and three related agreements, as they are agreements of particular importance to enable croatia to participate and operate fully in the single market. the european economic area agreement implies the implementation of the free movement of persons, capital, services and goods, and cooperation in a number of other areas such as research, tourism and culture, and environmental protection. i therefore consider it very important that croatia fully participates in the area in question, which will affect the welfare and development of the country and is a natural consequence of its accession to the european union. the conclusion of the agreement represents additional synergies between the republic of croatia and the other member states that will contribute to all sectors of croatian society.
written. ‒ the agreement on the european economic area (eea) was signed in 1992 and entered into force on 1 january 1994. this agreement also brings the three signatory states to the european free trade agreement (efta) - iceland, liechtenstein and norway - into the european union's single market. the republic of croatia, as a new member state, should be allowed to participate in the european economic area. i supported this report because the expansion of the area of free movement of goods, services, people and capital is desirable for strengthening the european economy, and the agreement also covers cooperation in other important areas such as research and development, education, social policy, consumer protection, tourism and culture. i regret that the amendments to the agreement and the additional protocols are being adopted with a delay of over a year.
written. ‒ i supported the recommendation of mp lambsdorff concerning the decision on the conclusion of an agreement for the participation of croatia in the european economic area. i put a question to the high representative ashton on this subject last year. the purpose of the eea is to extend the internal market of the eu to the efta states. in accordance with the treaty on the accession of croatia to the eu, croatia has undertaken to accede to the agreement on the european economic area, which is ensured by this proposal. the agreement on the participation of croatia in the eea is provisionally applied as from 12 april 2014. for the period 2009-2014, the efta states have allocated eur 9,6 million to croatia through the norwegian financial mechanism and the eea financial mechanism. i would point out that this membership will enable croatia to trade with the eea member countries and achieve the free movement of goods, persons, services and capital. the agreement also contains horizontal policies linked to the four fundamental freedoms from which croatia will benefit: social policy, consumer protection policy, environment, statistics and company law, and a number of policies related to research and technological development. i therefore supported the agreement on the participation of croatia in the eea as well as the three related agreements.
the agreement on croatia's participation in the european economic area was signed on 11 april this year, linking the european union's member states and the three signatory countries of the european free trade area to the common market. that agreement, which includes croatia in the european economic area, covers cooperation in important areas such as research and development, education, social policy, environment, consumer protection, tourism and culture. the commission has also taken into account the fact that the acquisition of the rights of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia by the republic of croatia is not subject to the conditions laid down in the treaty on european union. the agreement also provides for eur 9,6 million to be made available to croatia for the implementation of projects under the current norwegian financial mechanism. the accession of croatia to the european economic area is an obligation arising from the treaty of accession to the european union and i therefore support the commencement of participation and express my hope that croatia will take advantage of all the opportunities arising from this agreement.
written. ‒ i support the proposal to join the european economic area (eea) for croatia. in early september 2012, the commission opened negotiations with iceland, the principality of liechtenstein and the kingdom of norway to align the eea agreement to the accession of croatia to the european union. the agreement allows croatia to become a contracting party to the agreement on the european economic area and, following the signing of the agreements with norway, liechtenstein and iceland, to be included in the norwegian financial mechanism, which means participation in the single market and free trade, but also equal status with the other member states of the union. i am of the opinion that this agreement will also stimulate the growth of economic exchanges between the signatory countries.
written. ‒ i supported this proposal because it ensures that croatia, as a new member of the european union, becomes a contracting party to the european economic area and, following the agreements signed with norway, liechtenstein and iceland, it also enables it to be included in the mechanism that ensures equal action in the single market and free trade, and above all equal status with the member states. given the high unemployment and difficult economic situation facing croatia, i expect that the accession of the republic of croatia to the european economic area will have positive long-term consequences for the economy, exports and new jobs. we know that the union is based on four fundamental freedoms and the agreement is a good step towards ensuring the free movement of goods, services, people and capital.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution on the proposal for a council decision on the 'octroi de mer' tax in the french outermost regions, as that proposal promotes economic activity and competitiveness in french regions thousands of kilometres away from home, while respecting the coherence of the internal market. i also support the commission's proposal to extend the current council decision for a further six months in order to allow france to transpose the measures of the new decision into national law for the period from 1 january 2015 to 31 december 2020. the new decision will create a new tailor-made legal framework on taxes to be applied to specific products in order to compensate for the backlog of the outermost regions and to support their social and economic development.
written. ‒ i am encouraging this report because i believe that this measure is justified and defined with the aim of stimulating economic activity and competitiveness in the outermost regions, and does not endanger the internal market and the eu legal order. the objective of the exemption or reduction of the 'octroi de mer' tax on a number of products produced in the french outermost regions (including saint martin) is to compensate for the shortcomings affecting the outermost regions concerned (remoteness, dependence on raw materials and energy, small market and low level of export activity) and to support their competitiveness and social and economic development.
‒ guadeloupe, french guiana, réunion, martinique and mayotte are among the outermost regions of the european union under the administrative administration of france whose vulnerable socioeconomic environments need support for development. the production activity in these areas is disadvantaged compared to the rest of the eu due to factors such as geographical distance and isolation, small land area, severe climatic conditions and dependence on a small number of products. in order to increase the competitiveness and development of production in these regions, council decision 2004/162/ec authorising france to apply reduced/zero rates of taxation to certain groups of products produced on its territory entered into force in february 2004. given that the existing decision is valid until the end of the year, it is necessary to adopt a new proposed decision to support the economic development of those regions by 2020. i believe that tax relief for local production is one of the key factors for development and in that sense i supported this proposal. i believe that the small business tax exemption is also a significant measure to encourage entrepreneurship. the commission notes that the french authorities have not provided any evidence that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market.
written. ‒ i support this report in view of the urgency of adopting these measures to stimulate economic activity and competitiveness in the french outermost regions. this report shows that the care of the outermost regions of the european union is as important as the care of any other part of the european union.
written. ‒ i support this proposal because of the difficulties faced by the french overseas territory in order to ensure its competitiveness and socioeconomic development. the reductions and exemptions were introduced to ensure the competitiveness of local products in relation to imported french products and to prevent a decline in local production, and with it a decline in economic stability and the economy. as indicated in the commission's report, the reductions and exemptions from the 'octroi de mer' tax will affect all operators with an annual turnover of at least eur 300 000 in order to protect small producers who are the bearers of economic prosperity not only in france but throughout the european union.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund in the event of the dismissal of 608 workers of the italian company whirlpool, because of the need to respond as quickly and as efficiently as possible to the redundancies, which were certainly influenced by the global financial and economic crisis. the fact is, we've been witnessing a huge decline in electrical equipment production and household consumption, which has affected the layoffs at whirlpool. it should be noted that the unemployment in the province of trento, which has doubled since the beginning of the crisis, will be further aggravated by the above-mentioned redundancies. in particular, i support the measures taken by the italian authorities to provide services tailored to the needs of the affected workers and the involvement of the social partners in the negotiations on the measures to be supported. i therefore support the mobilisation of the egf in the fastest and most dynamic way possible.
written. ‒ the economic crisis has had a significant impact on the reduction in consumption and thus on the reduction in business volume leading to the layoffs of the workforce. the objective of the european globalisation adjustment fund is to provide additional assistance to workers made redundant and to self-employed persons whose activity has ceased as a result of globalisation. that is why i supported the report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund to help workers made redundant by whirpool europe s.r.l and its suppliers. this report seeks to provide a contribution of eur 1,9 million to help redundant workers find work and further education.
written. - i supported the report of my colleague daniele viotti. globalization has brought about an acceleration in the world's economic development, but it has also brought negative consequences. the great economic and financial crisis affected the restructuring of many companies with the aim of eliminating unprofitability, and many companies were affected by structural reforms resulting in the dismissal of a large number of workers. the unemployment rate in trent has doubled since the start of the crisis, rising from 2,9% in 2007 to 6,1% in 2013. the commission notes that the commission has not received any comments from interested parties on the compatibility of the aid with the internal market. i support the proposal of the european commission and the council to grant financial assistance to 608 dismissed whirlpool europe workers of eur 1,8 million out of a total estimated cost of eur 3,1 million for support activities, training for other jobs and as self-employment support, as i consider these to be quality measures to help workers.
written. ‒ the italian authorities submitted an application egf/ 2014/010/ it whirlpool for a financial contribution from the european globalisation adjustment fund. this fund is intended for workers who have lost their jobs as a result of major structural changes in world trade. the commission has not received any comments from interested parties regarding the application of the met/it guidelines. the commission has examined the request and found that the conditions for this case were met. the european commission also proposed to allocate eur 1,8 million from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to italy to help 608 former whirlpool europe srl workers find new jobs. it is about measures to combat unemployment and to deal with the financial crisis, and i therefore support this report.
‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund supports people who have lost their jobs as a result of major structural changes in world trade. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the aid granted to the beneficiaries was compatible with the internal market. unemployment is, as we know, a big problem throughout the european union, especially in italy, but i have to point out in croatia, especially when we talk about young people. the commission has approved the application and i believe it is our duty as members of the european parliament to support any initiative that benefits the worker by providing him with a new start.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund in the case of fiat auto poland s.a. because it is necessary to provide concrete assistance to the workers made redundant through the egf. the european automotive industry has suffered a major downturn, which will have a significant impact on unemployment in schleswig. in addition, the redundancies concerned are those of workers with lower skills and older workers. it is therefore necessary to provide effective assistance to those workers in order to avoid long-term unemployment and to encourage their reintegration into the labour market. in this context, it is important to note that some 20 applications for egf funding from the automotive industry were also recorded. the commission also found that the union industry was not able to compete with the union industry in the union market.
written. ‒ significant structural changes have led to a decline in the european automotive industry's market share on the world market, and the financial crisis has led to a decline in the purchasing power of citizens, resulting in redundancies. the commission has also received comments from the polish authorities, which have not provided any evidence that the aid was granted in breach of the notification requirement. the european globalisation adjustment fund was created to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of structural changes due to globalisation. the report seeks to provide €1.25 million to help dismissed workers to enable them to reintegrate more quickly through education and self-employment incentives.
written. - i supported the report of jan olbricht. the global and financial crisis affected sales of new passenger cars, which are at their lowest level since the start of the measurement, which was also reflected in the sharp decline in the eu market share, but also in the loss of jobs of the fiat auto poland factory workers. demand for new cars in 2012 in the eu-27 fell by 8,7% while worldwide car sales increased by 5,1%, so it is not surprising that the downward trend of the eu market share in the production and sales of passenger cars was confirmed by the final report of the automotive competition regulatory system published on 6 june 2012. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the aid granted to the company was compatible with the internal market. i supported the proposal of the european commission and the council to approve financial assistance for 777 dismissed workers of the fiat auto poland plant in the form of self-employment aid of eur 1,2 million.
written. ‒ i supported the report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund to help workers at the production plant of fiat auto poland s.a. due to redundancies due to major structural changes in world trade flows occurring as a result of the great economic crisis. the european globalisation adjustment fund was created to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of structural changes due to globalisation. this report seeks to release an amount of eur 1 259 610 to assist dismissed workers, thereby enabling them to reintegrate more quickly through education and self-employment incentives.
written. ‒ i agree with the decision to provide assistance to poland, which, like most member states, is in an enviable economic position and is facing a high unemployment rate. as we know, the automotive sector in the european union has reduced its production, lost market share, and all of this has led to an increase in unemployment. such a scenario has also affected some of the more developed member states of the union, and poland has not been immune either. i therefore consider that the aid is necessary because it will lead to an improvement in the economic and social situation, not only in poland but in the union as a whole. solidarity is one of the union's fundamental principles, and assistance to a member state is assistance to the union. the fund was also set up to help in such situations, and countries that request union assistance do so because they are forced to respond to the situation they find themselves in.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund to provide an effective and rapid contribution to help 551 workers made redundant by the greek company odyssefs fokas s.a. it is clear that the unemployment situation in greece has been critical since 2008 and that these redundancies will further worsen it. in this context, i strongly support the financial assistance of the egf in this case, and any coordinated assistance that would contribute positively to the economic situation of european countries such as greece. therefore, i also support the fact that the greek authorities have decided to provide services tailored to the needs of the affected workers in order to mitigate the consequences of this case, especially among young people. it is also necessary to ensure the competitiveness and efficiency of european economies in order to be able to cope strongly with crisis situations such as large-scale redundancies.
written. ‒ the crisis, which has shaken the greek economy for the sixth year in a row, has caused a significant drop in the purchasing power of citizens, with the retail sector being hit hard. that is why i supported the report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund to help the workers made redundant by odyssefs fokas s.a. at the request of greece. the european globalisation adjustment fund was created to provide additional support to workers declared redundant as a result of the global financial and economic crisis in order to assist their reintegration into the labour market. the report aims to mobilise eur 6,5 million for vocational guidance, training, retraining and self-employment incentives, all with the aim of reintegrating dismissed workers into the labour market.
written. - i supported the report of the reporter monica vane. as a result of globalisation, many industrial sectors in europe are undergoing major structural changes, and odyssefs fokas suffered the biggest impact on its business in 2008 due to the decline in the purchasing power of greek households. most of the redundancies are concentrated in attica and central macedonia, while 10% relate to thessaly. the unemployment rate in attica was 28,2% and in central macedonia 30,3%, in the last quarter of 2013. both have unemployment rates above the national average (27.5%). furthermore, there is a lack of jobs in all three regions compared to the large number of people looking for work. the unemployment rate has quadrupled between 2008 and 2013, representing the highest unemployment rate among member states and the fifth highest in the world. i support the proposal of the european commission and the council to approve financial assistance for 600 workers laid off at the fokas plant, amounting to eur 6.4 million for the provision of support.
written. ‒ i support the report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund to provide financial assistance to 551 workers made redundant by odyssefs fokas s.a. at the request of the greek authorities. odyssefs fokas s.a. is a company that operated in the economic sector. the european commission has concluded that the conditions for receiving financial support and a contribution from the european globalisation adjustment fund are met and that the proposed financial contribution is eur 6 444 000, a significant amount for the already shaken greek economy. the european globalisation adjustment fund provides support to people who have lost their jobs as a result of structural changes in world trade patterns and globalisation. the closure of large companies or the relocation of production outside the eu, which may be the result of the global economic and financial crisis, puts eu citizens who lose their jobs at a disadvantage, and i therefore support this report.
written. ‒ i supported the european commission's proposal to allocate financial support and contribution from the european globalisation adjustment fund as the mobilisation criteria for the same are met. i think that 6,444,000 euros net will not save the collapsed greek economy, but it will certainly be an injection that will ensure the existence of 550 families. i also welcome the efforts of the greek authorities who have made the effort to apply for financial assistance from the european globalisation adjustment fund in connection with the redundancies in odyssefs fokas s.a. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to provide the necessary financial support to the member states in the event of a crisis.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund in the event of redundancies at air france, as these, which are largely due to the global structural changes affecting air transport, will have a strong impact on the ile-de-france region. it is important that the egf helps to reintegrate workers made redundant into the labour market and that training programmes are set up to that end. reintegration of dismissed workers and services adapted to the needs of affected workers are essential to avoid a permanent state of unemployment. i believe that active measures and dynamic support are key to the concrete implementation of the egf financial assistance.
written. ‒ in the light of the structural changes taking place as a result of the growing trend towards globalisation, i supported the report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund to help workers who have lost their jobs at the french airline air france. the european globalisation adjustment fund was created to provide additional support to workers declared redundant as a result of the global financial and economic crisis and globalisation. the purpose of this fund is to assist with reintegration into the labour market. the report aims to mobilise €26 million for counselling, education and employment incentives to help workers re-enter the labour market.
written. - i supported the report of the rapporteur marc zanni. the commission notes that the airport services agreement concluded between ryanair and ams was signed on 29 june 2010 and entered into force on 1 january 2010. the commission notes that the airport services agreement with ryanair was signed on 28 june 2010 and that the agreement was signed on 27 june 2010. france has requested assistance from the european globalisation adjustment fund for 5213 of its workers. the commission notes that the french authorities have not provided any evidence that the measures in question were necessary to achieve the objective of common interest. i support the proposal of the european commission and the council to approve financial assistance for 3 866 dismissed air france employees, amounting to eur 25.9 million for the provision of support. i think france needs reforms that will make it easier to lay off workers in difficult times, but also increase the protection of temporary workers because it's a key element to get the economy going and reduce unemployment.
written. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund is intended to help and support those who have lost their jobs as a result of major structural changes in world trade. the annual budget shall be eur 150 million for the period 2014-2020. the growth of world air traffic between europe and the rest of the world has its limits, and has stagnated recently. the decline in air traffic between the eu and the four other continents (north america, south america, africa and asia) ranges from 0,3% to 2,8%, while air traffic between the eu and the middle east decreased by 11,4%. this data has shocked national economies, and in particular, in this case, the french airline air france. following the assessment of the application, the european commission concluded that the conditions for granting a financial contribution from the egf were met and proposed to grant to france an aid of eur 25 900 000 for the employees of air france. it is a measure to combat unemployment, to deepen the crisis and to protect workers, and i therefore support this report.
written. ‒ i welcome the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund as it aims to provide support, i.e. help to people who have lost their jobs as a result of major structural changes in world trade, which in this case has happened. in view of the turbulence in the market, a budget of €150 million for the period 2014-2020 may not be enough, but it does provide some security for workers across the eu. i also believe that the decline in air traffic between the eu and the four continents (north america, south america, africa and asia) from 0.3 percent to 2.8 percent, as well as the decline in air traffic between the eu and the middle east by 11.4 percent, is certainly not the fault of the workers, but the responsibility lies with the management. for all these reasons, i voted in favour of the european commission's proposal to provide france with a grant of eur 25 900 000 for air france workers to help unemployed workers find new jobs.
written. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution on the commission proposal for the appointment of the chair, vice-chair and members of the management board of the single resolution board on the basis of their own competence, merit and skills. i consider the qualifications of the candidates to be positively satisfactory and that they have demonstrated experience in financial supervision and that the selection has been made in accordance with the principles of qualifications and experience.
written. ‒ i support the appointment of elke könig, tim löyttyniemi, maura grande, antonia carrascose, joanne kellermann and dominique laboureix as members of the single resolution board, as they have shown themselves to be good candidates by their quality responses to the questions asked and by their good introductory presentations at the hearings before the board. the committee will oversee the liquidation or restructuring of failing banks, which should spare eu governments the cost of their recovery and restore confidence in the euro area. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council. the committee will cooperate with the single european supervisor for banks at the european central bank (ecb).
written. ‒ the role of the single resolution board (srb) is crucial to the successful functioning of the single resolution mechanism. the future heads of the escb have a responsibility to provide security to the european banking system together with the european central bank, which has the role of single supervisor. since the summer of this year, intensive work has been carried out to find a candidate to lead the jso and i believe that the criteria for the selection of the jso's president, vice-presidents and members of the management board have been carefully selected in this process and that the candidates selected in this process fully satisfy them. i have confidence in the assessment of the parliamentary committee on economic and monetary policy, which, having regard to article 56 (4) of regulation (eu) no 806/2014, has given a positive assessment of the proposed candidates, and i hereby give them my support.
written. ‒ i support the appointment of these members because they have proven themselves as quality candidates at the committee hearings, not only with their experience but also with their quality answers to the questions asked and good introductory speeches, and i trust that they will do their job with quality and responsibility.
written. ‒ i supported the above-mentioned commission proposal on the appointment of the chairman, vice-chairmen and members of the management board of the single resolution board, given that the single resolution board supervises the european central bank as well as all banks wishing to join the banking union. i believe that such a body is needed in the financial market because, unfortunately, over the past few years, it has become clear that the supervision of financial institutions is necessary to prevent the financial sector in the union from falling into trouble again. if there are difficulties in the financial business, the board of rehabilitation will react, with minimal cost to taxpayers, with the aim of solving the problem. the chair of the committee is elke konig, who has been chair of the federal financial supervisory authority in recent years, which raises the hope that all the other candidates who have presented themselves to the committee for economic and monetary policy can adequately respond to the new and demanding roles, as confirmed by the positive opinion of the members of the committee.
the european council in brussels on 14 and 15 december adopted a resolution on the situation in the middle east and the situation in the middle east. i hope that ambition is based on facts, not on fairy-tale projections that will one day in the near future blow up like a soap bubble. it would not be the first time that the commission has lived in a world of its own where everything is in order and there is no need for real reforms. but now we have a new commission and a new president, so it would be good and fair to give these people a chance to show what they can do. i want to believe that the commission will really act on the words of mr timmermans, who speaks of a europe that improves the lives of its citizens, and not interfere with them. and a europe that makes businesses more competitive, rather than burdening them with bureaucracy. if the commission's answer to all these problems is that we need more europe, i fear we will have a new political and economic crisis from which it will be very, very difficult to recover.
mr president, the statements made by mr juncker and his commission so far have, i must say, instilled confidence in me. i believe this is a new beginning, but i have to consider that the question is whether there will be any more new opportunities. three words, mr juncker, i see as key to your mandate: investment, development and growth. that is where your commission will succeed or fail. i believe in the need for an energy union. i believe in the need for a digital single market that can even become the fifth european freedom. i believe in the circular economy and from many of the ideas that i have heard, i want to believe that this commission, with the programme that it has presented today, in synergy with the member states, but also with the regions, but also with the cities, can take europe forward. i wish you success on that journey.
madam president, the consequences of the increasingly frequent extreme weather events caused by climate change are having a devastating effect in certain regions of the european union. they're changing the lives of thousands of citizens and causing great economic damage. 80 million euro is being spent this year on flood damage. croatia is just one example where floods in slavonia caused damage of 197 million euros. preventing climate change and its harmful effects should be a leading eu policy. europe must start managing our money more wisely. these funds would have a much greater impact in preventing climate change by which we can avoid catastrophic natural events like this. cohesion policy is the best way to encourage cooperation between member states and border countries in this area. cohesion policy projects aimed at preventing the consequences of climate change create better and more sustainable jobs. it is a sustainable way of stabilising the economies of the less developed member countries. to this end, the commission has a key role to play in providing the means to implement prevention projects and i therefore call on all competent authorities to increase their commitment to this objective.
president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union is the world's largest donor of humanitarian aid, and bilateral assistance from the member states is a considerable part of that effort. the european union member states alone have provided almost one and a half billion euros in humanitarian assistance since the beginning of the syrian crisis in 2011. this is in addition to the €666 million in humanitarian aid from the eu budget provided by the commission. as honourable members are well aware, the council has just approved, with parliament, the 2014 amending budget, making an additional eur 214 million available to the commission's humanitarian aid budget for this year. a large part of this amount is used for the european union's response to the syrian crisis. this is a clear demonstration of our commitment to providing humanitarian aid to those in need, particularly those affected by the syrian crisis. yesterday the council adopted conclusions on the situation in syria and we expressed our grave concern at the dramatic funding shortfall in response to the un appeals for 2014, which has led to the temporary suspension of assistance to syrian refugees by the world food programme and we called on the international community to step up funding in view of the winter and in response to the upcoming appeals for 2015. but we have not only asked others, the member states have been among the main donors who have responded immediately to the urgent appeal of the world food programme for funding for syria. for example, the netherlands, germany, ireland and belgium have collectively contributed more than $14 million. together with the commission's contribution from the eu budget, this brings the eu's collective response to this emergency appeal to more than eur 20 million. we are pleased that this has now helped to fill the gap experienced by the world food programme and that food assistance for 1.7 million syrian refugees can resume as planned. it remains tragic that in a crisis of the scale of the syrian crisis there can barely be enough funds to meet all the needs of the internally displaced. many of those who had to flee syria often did so with nothing but the clothes they were wearing. but we can certainly make sure that we do not add to their suffering. the council and the member states cannot accept reductions in food aid for those who have lost everything. we have coordinated very closely within the council, between the member states and also with the commission, the response to this unprecedented crisis. we make sure there is no overlap in our collective response as we try to fill, as best we can, the gaps in global funding. in this context, i would also like to point out that the member states of the european union are one of the main donors to the world food programme. even before the recent emergency appeal, eu member states had paid more than €150 million to the world food programme in 2014 for its action in the context of the syrian crisis alone. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we consider the world food programme to be one of our main executive partners in the provision of humanitarian assistance by the european union. both as the european union and as member states, we have a long tradition of cooperation on a bilateral basis. we will therefore ensure, together with the world food programme, that appropriate measures are taken in terms of both financing and planning. we must ensure that deficiencies such as we have seen do not happen again. we owe it to all the people we try to help, first and foremost to the innocent victims of the terrible war in syria.
member of the commission.– mr president, i am grateful for the opportunity to address this important issue today. there is no question but that the syrian crisis is unprecedented. both in terms of its humanitarian consequences and for its financial implications. an immediate reaction by international donors is a precondition for avoiding a further deterioration in the situation. a comprehensive response to the crisis cannot be built on our normal budgets. we must work together to make a strong eu response possible. we have a collective responsibility to find the means to achieve this goal. the wfpʼs decision to cut back food assistance is a reminder of the overwhelming impact of the biggest humanitarian tragedy of our times. i want to underline that the eu as a whole is responding to the syrian crisis needs. we are responding to the call by the wfp which has resumed its aid scheme to syrian refugees. i want to express my sincere appreciation for the broad support of this parliament in this crisis. the european union has led the international response to the syrian crisis. we have provided more than eur 3.1 billion. of this, eur 681 million has come from the commission’s humanitarian budget, with eur 120 million provided for wfpʼs operations in syria and neighbouring countries. the wfp is our second largest humanitarian partner after the unhcr. we are fully committed to our partnership with the wfp. as a matter of urgency, we have allocated an additional eur 5.5 million to the wfpʼs aid scheme for syrian refugees. with this amount, our funding for 2014 is up to eur 18 million, on top of the eur 61 million allocated in december 2013. we will continue our efforts to mobilise additional resources. it is no accident that a few days ago both the wfp and valerie amos from ocha, who is very well known, expressed their appreciation to the eu for our generous humanitarian support. it is true that the wfp has by far the biggest needs in this crisis, estimated to reach usd 1.8 billion this year. this amount goes beyond the usd 1.6 billion needs of the unhcr. the fact that approximately only 60% of these needs are matched with funding is a major problem. unfortunately the wfp is only one of the many partners in desperate need of funding. for this reason we have repeatedly warned the donor community that the gap between needs and funding is unfortunately not sustainable. syria is the biggest crisis we face today but it is not the only crisis. think of iraq, the central african republic, south sudan, etc. all of these crises have stretched humanitarian budgets beyond their limits. certainly money will never be enough; therefore we need more cost-effective and more targeted operations from humanitarian partners. this also applies to the wfp. this year we will finish with eur 165 million in humanitarian assistance for the syrian crisis. this is already less than half of the exceptional eur 350 million we managed to mobilise in 2012. next year our commissionʼs initial humanitarian funding will be down to 100 million. there will be additional money forthcoming soon. i will use all the leverage i have to achieve that. but my efforts alone, unfortunately, are not enough. we need strong collective action for next year. we expect needs of usd 7.2 billion for the syrian crisis alone. this is a substantial increase compared to the record figure of usd 6 billion for this year. the syrian crisis will remain a top priority in the years to come. the whole region is feeling its impact. we have to find ways to increase funding and make it sustainable, otherwise it will be a short fix. we must adopt a long-term approach. we must continue honouring our pledges. it is not only our moral duty, it is also a question of life or death for millions of syrian refugees. as you know, a few days ago i came back from a joint mission with vice-president federica mogherini and commissioner johannes hahn to turkey. there we also visited refugee camps along the syrian border. the situation on the ground is overwhelming. cuts in food assistance will be felt there first. it is our collective responsibility to stop this from happening. we must work together to avoid this situation. at the end of the day, however, what is needed for the syrian crisis is a political solution. un special envoy de mistura has our full support in this regard. it is a support reflected yesterday in the foreign affairs council conclusions.
on behalf of the ppe club. mr. president, in the four years of the armed conflict in syria, we have heard many times in this house that this is the greatest humanitarian crisis facing the world today. 14 million people in syria are in urgent need of humanitarian aid, including 5 million children. one million and 700,000 refugees in neighbouring countries benefited from the un world food programme, which suspended aid deliveries for several days in december due to a lack of funds. encouragingly, funds were raised in the shortest possible time to keep the world food program running. also encouraging is the quick reaction of our commissioner christos stylianides who immediately announced additional financial support for this program. it is important to note here that the eu has met its commitments to the world food programme on time because of various misinformation about debts under that un programme. in this case, the european union has timely disbursed funds, but this case also underlines the importance of timely payment of pledged funds in humanitarian aid. in many cases, human lives depend on it. but it is also necessary to call on other partners in the international community to take greater responsibility in funding humanitarian aid. the commission will continue to support the efforts of the european union to address the humanitarian crisis in syria, including through the implementation of the un-led humanitarian response to the crisis in syria.
madam president, autonomous trade measures are an excellent european union programme that provides service and financial support to european partners whose pro-european orientation and commitment to reform are not in question. the temporary increase in the quota for imports of the products in question from moldova to the european union is a small financial concession and a strong political message to moldova, but also to russia, that the european union stands by its partners. the consequences of the politically motivated russian embargo are strongly felt in moldova, as 40% of the budget comes from agricultural activities employing 10% of the population. such a financial blow seriously threatens the economic recovery and the implementation of the necessary reforms. the current developments on the union's eastern borders make moldova increasingly important for the european union's engagement in its eastern neighbourhood. the recent elections have shown that moldova is overwhelmingly pro-european, which provides a strong foundation for the continuation of our partnership. moldova has chosen its own path, and it's up to us to support it.
madam president, i would like to use this debate to support the process of intensifying political and economic relations between the european union and moldova. in this process, the signing of the agreement in june was important, which allowed moldova to increase trade with the european union, increase exports to the european union. but we must note the negative reaction of the authorities in moscow to this process - a process that was in the mutual interest of both moldova and the european union, but it seems that the very fact that moldova is going its own way was unacceptable to the russian authorities and their geopolitical goal of dominating the territory of the former soviet union. so in july, they banned the import of moldovan agricultural products to punish disobedience in a country they still consider their possession from the former soviet times. the commission has also received comments from interested parties, including from the complainant, which have not been taken into account in the assessment of the compatibility of the aid with the internal market. in this situation, i therefore believe that it is necessary to support the commission's proposal by introducing three new products: apples, grapes and plums under the free import tariff regime of the eu within the itm regulation. this will certainly help small and medium-sized farmers and will send a strong signal to the russian authorities in particular, but also to our partners in moldova that the european union stands in solidarity with them.
written. ten years after poland's accession to the european union, i wish the former polish prime minister, mr donald tusk, a successful new term as president of the european council in terms of strengthening the european economy, which will have a positive impact on the standard of living of citizens and on restoring their trust in the institutions. the commission's first step was to define the priorities in the work programme for 2015 in terms of achieving the employment and growth-oriented objectives. i believe that during his ev he will confirm the €315 billion investment plan for europe which aims to boost growth and jobs through three main areas of action: the establishment of a new european fund for strategic investments, the establishment of a transparent portfolio of eu projects and the establishment of an action plan to attract investment. as president of the european parliament's delegation for relations with ukraine, i highly value president tusk's firm stance on the need to withdraw russian troops from eastern ukraine and believe that ukraine will remain a key subject of interest for the european parliament as it represents the most important european security issue and a test for the eu's foreign, neighbourhood and energy policy.
written. i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the introduction of autonomous privileges for the republic of moldova as this procedure will improve the market relations between the european union and the republic of moldova. the prohibition of imports of agricultural products such as apples, plums and table grapes into russia has had an extremely negative impact on the economy of the republic of moldova, which has therefore requested the introduction of an autonomous trade preference with the eu. in view of the efforts of the republic of moldova to approximate to the rising european standards in agriculture and trade, i believe that such a decision of the european commission on the autonomous trade preference for the most important export products of the republic of moldova can bring many benefits for the financial recovery and the functioning of the market in the said country, and for approximation to eu standards.
written. i supported this report because the proposed changes are aimed at improving trade with the republic of moldova and thus contributing to the development of the moldovan economy, which is currently suffering from the sanctions imposed by russia. the proposal aims to amend the regulation by introducing three new duty-free tariff rates for fresh apples of 40 000 tonnes, fresh grapes of 10 000 tonnes and fresh plums of 10 000 tonnes. the commission established the volume of imports from the prc on the basis of eurostat data. the loss of duty-free tariff rates will therefore not have a significant impact on the eu budget.
written. given that moldova has recently experienced difficulties in exporting fruit and vegetables and that as much as 40% of the moldovan economy with 250 000 employees depends on this market, i believe that the eu must act to help moldova adapt to difficult market conditions. the eu has an obligation to respond to the recently adopted pro-european and ambitious reform agenda on the political and economic front of integration with the union. as a member of the european neighbourhood policy and the eastern partnership, moldova needs support on its european path and the first step to do so will be to help the moldovan economy adjust to market conditions by establishing autonomous trade preferences with the introduction of three new quotas and the abolition of excise duties on imports of fresh apples, table grapes and fresh plums into the eu market. the establishment of trade preferences would send a strong message to the republic of moldova, primarily through the maintenance of the country's financial stability and in the upcoming reform process announced by the moldovan government, and in the context of the implementation of the association agreement.
written. i consider it important, as an act of solidarity towards a country on its way to membership of the european family, to support the commission's proposal to introduce three new products under the free customs procedure for import into the eu within the atm regulation. the products concerned are fresh apples (40 000 tonnes), fresh table grapes and fresh plums (10 000 tonnes per item). the commission has also received comments from the moldovan authorities, which have not provided any evidence to support its view that the measures in question are necessary to restore the viability of the moldovan economy. it is important to note that all three products will be mainly imported into the romanian market, which according to the world apple and plum association has been experiencing a five-year decline in production, with a 22% decline in production in the last year alone. furthermore, i would point out that support for this report leads to support for the current agricultural reform in moldova which is making efforts to reach european standards. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to moldova, in particular through the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to moldova.
the european union introduced autonomous trade preferences for the republic of moldova back in 2008, and as moldova has fulfilled the set conditional reforms in customs legislation, the autonomous trade preferences were granted by the eu. all products originating in moldova have been granted free access to the eu market, except for certain agricultural products such as beef and pork, poultry, dairy products, maize, barley and sugar. i consider that this proposal will contribute to the control and certification system of products entering the union market and will ensure the stability of the moldovan economy, which is why i supported this proposal.
written. i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the tariff treatment of goods originating in ecuador, as it extends the trade preferences granted to ecuador under the generalised system of preferences (gsp), which would otherwise have expired on 1 january 2015, in order to avoid a disruption of trade until the entry into force of the trade agreement concluded by ecuador with the european union in july 2014. i therefore support this transitional period (lasting until 31 december 2016 at the latest) to prepare ecuador and the european union for the entry into force of the free trade agreement, while respecting the obligations arising from the gsp legal framework.
in july 2014, the european commission and ecuador concluded a trade agreement for the accession of this country to the trade agreement between the european union and colombia and peru. ecuador is still a beneficiary country of the generalized scheme of preferences (gsp+ scheme), but will lose these rights as of january 2015 as ecuador ceases to be an eligible developing country for receiving more than usd 4000 per capita over the past three years. in order to avoid interruption or disruption of trade between the european union and ecuador, this proposal will allow ecuador to maintain free access to the eu market in accordance with the previous rules of the preferential scheme, namely the gsp + scheme. i have supported this report because i consider that the efforts made by ecuador during the negotiations are certainly proof that this country deserves to be a beneficiary of this special measure. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the exporting producers concerned have been able to obtain the benefit of the preferential scheme.
this proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the tariff treatment of goods originating in ecuador is the logical link between the two customs regimes ecuador will find itself in at the beginning of 2015 with regard to the export of its products to the eu. the fact that the per capita income in ecuador has exceeded the $4,000 threshold in the past 3 years is a reflection of the positive developments in the country's economy, but at the same time it is also the reason why it is no longer possible to apply the european union's general system of preferences to goods produced in ecuador. on the other hand, negotiations were concluded during the year to allow ecuador to accede to the trade agreement between the european union, colombia and peru. until accession is ratified by the eu member states and colombia and peru, this is the instrument needed to allow for the smooth continuation of trade relations. this proposal deserves support in any case, as ecuador has shown itself to be a partner open to negotiations and to the development of cooperation. i consider it very important that, through the application of this regulation, the commission closely monitors whether ecuador is complying with its obligations, not only in terms of possible actions that could directly cause difficulties on the european market for these products, but also in terms of human and labour rights and environmental protection.
in july this year, the european commission and ecuador concluded negotiations on ecuador's accession to the eu-colombia/peru trade agreement. the commission has also received comments from the united kingdom on the application of the rules on the application of the rules on the application of the rules on the application of the rules on the application of the rules on the application of the rules on the application of the rules on the application of the rules on the application of the rules on the application of the rules on the application of the rules on the application of the rules on the application of the rules on the application of the rules on the application of the rules on the application of the rules on the application of the rules on the application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of application of the rules on application of the rules on application of application of the rules on application. i therefore also call on the council, following parliament's approval of the proposal, to approve it as soon as possible and to bring it into force so that there is no interruption of trade and trade relations. i support the proposal and would like to highlight the efforts made by ecuador during the negotiations that have earned these special import measures in the eu, which are important for the development and growth of the ecuadorian economy and economy.
written. i supported the accession of ecuador to the trade agreement concluded between the european union and peru, which concerns the tariff and tax burdens for ecuador on goods and services originating in that country. i believe that the agreement will ensure competitiveness and stability in the economy on the one hand, while on the other hand it should increase the protection of human and labour rights as well as the level of environmental protection. the agreement also guarantees a new legal framework between the eu and ecuador in the context of trade relations. the commission notes that the measures provided for in this decision are in accordance with the opinion of the committee established by article 15 (1) of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
written. i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the proposal from the european parliament and the council to mobilise the contingency margin, primarily because the impact on national budgets of that mobilisation will be very limited due to unforeseen additional expenditure for 2014. large arrears of payments and outstanding debts have been noted and need to be addressed as soon as possible by urgent and effective measures to prevent a deterioration of the current financial situation. it is also important to apply the flexibility mechanism and avoid a negative impact on the implementation of programmes and policies in order to contribute positively to the implementation of the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020 by mobilising the reserve.
written. the current level of outstanding accounts has reached €23 billion, putting a major strain on the current multiannual financial framework. that is why i supported the report on the mobilisation of the contingency reserve for 2014 amounting to eur 3,16 billion or 0,03 per cent of the gross national income of the european union. i consider that this instrument will provide part of the assets to be used to pay part of the liabilities. the amount of eur 3,16 billion will increase the ceiling for payments under the current multiannual financial framework and provide for the advance provisioning of horizon 2020, erasmus+, cosme and the youth employment initiative in the event of unforeseen expenditure.
having examined all other financial possibilities for responding to unforeseen circumstances arising after the 2014 payment ceiling for the multiannual financial framework was initially set in february 2013, it appears necessary to mobilise the contingency reserve to supplement the appropriations for payments in the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014 above the payment ceiling. the amount of eur 350 million in appropriations for payments should also be included in the mobilisation of the contingency reserve depending on the payment arrangement for the other specific instruments. i therefore support the report.
written. i supported this initiative because it provides funding for employment, rural development, fisheries development and encourages other measures aimed at economic and economic recovery and development, recovery from unforeseen and crisis situations. it will mean helping people find better jobs and social inclusion. if the money is used properly, it will lead to the exchange of knowledge and innovation in many areas such as agriculture and forestry, rural development, strengthening the competitiveness of all types of agriculture and the sustainability of the economy. although it is not a large sum, i fully support it because in crisis situations any help and reaction is welcome, and unfortunately crisis situations in the eu are not uncommon today.
mr president, the level of unpaid bills in the european union has been steadily increasing since 2010 and has now reached as high as €28 billion. the level of illiquidity in the member states is high and the eu budget must not be an additional illiquidity generator. if the contract is approved, the payments should not be in question. late payments are a loss of credibility. that is why i supported the amendment to the 2014 budget which increases the amount for payment of commitments by eur 4,2 billion, of which eur 2,4 billion relates to the european regional development fund, where the outstanding amounts of commitments are the highest and projects are important for the daily lives of citizens.
written. i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the council position on draft amending budget no 3/2014 as i support the mobilisation of the contingency margin in view of the severe financial crisis facing the european union. in this context, i also support the increase of payments in the 2014 budget, and the increase of appropriations for payment for individual titles. while these budgetary changes will not be sufficient to resolve all outstanding accounts, they will mitigate the current situation to some extent. a more responsible and competitive european economy is needed to prepare an adequate response to the crisis.
written. amendment to budget no 3 is part of a package of amendments which ensure that commitments already made under programmes and projects previously approved by the council and already in implementation are reconciled. it is undeniable that the commitments undertaken must be fulfilled and that we must take advantage of the flexibility within the vfo assigned. this amendment is necessary to pay the bills of programmes of major strategic importance for the future of the eu. the most significant item in this amending budget is the increase in the payment appropriations for the european regional development fund convergence, for which the payment appropriations have been increased by €2.4 billion. i think it is positive that this very item, which aims to strengthen economic and social cohesion and reduce regional imbalances in the european union, has finally received support for an increase in the amount proposed by the european commission. i am particularly pleased that the eastern partnership and the support for cooperation with neighbouring countries where funds for programmes in support of ukraine are located have been fully committed. timely approval of payments used to fight for human rights is essential for their effective use, and i believe that the eu institutions will be able to respond more quickly to such challenges in the future.
written. i would first of all like to emphasise that the parliament, the council and the commission, in a joint statement of 12 november 2013, committed themselves to ensuring that the union has the financial means to meet its legal obligations in 2014 by ensuring the orderly flow of payments and by applying the various flexibility mechanisms covered by the mff regulation. i support the commission's proposal for draft amending budget no 3/2014 which calls for an increase in payments and proposes to use all available instruments to address the shortfall in payments in all items. i particularly welcome the allocation of more than 70% of the requested amount, which, overall, is the main area in the eu budget affected by the payment shortfall. i also call on the commission to work towards a long-term solution in this regard and i encourage the commission and the council to apply all the flexibility instruments under the multiannual financial framework, the mff, in order to further reduce the problem in the meantime.
written. i support the proposal for amending the 2014 budget which provides for an increase in revenue from fines and interest, given that we know that the debt has increased in recent years and has reached eur 23,4 billion, exceeding the commission's forecasts and expected to increase further. all instruments of flexibility should be used to reduce debt. parliament must report regularly on the expected development of payments. the purpose of the amendment will be fulfilled if we have a clear overview of the past and present obligations that must be respected in order to avoid financial penalties.
written. i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the council position on draft amending budget no 4/2014 because those amendments will reduce the need for additional own resources for the budget of the european union and will also reduce the appropriations allocated to the european data protection supervisor. the amendments, which are based primarily on the revision of the estimates of traditional own resources and the vat and gni bases, also take into account the final financial penalties that may be entered in the budget. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation.
the european commission has included in the amendment to draft budget no 4 the amount of eur 2.4 billion generated by the collection of fines and interest on late payments. the amount of eur 2,4 billion will cover the deficit of eur 838,5 million resulting from the reduced contribution of the union's own resources (deficit of eur 646,1 million on the basis of import duties and deficit of eur 192,4 million on the basis of vat). i supported the report on the amendment of draft budget no 4 because it involves the inclusion of realised revenue, which will allow the gni contribution to be reduced by eur 1.59 billion and thus reduce the burden on member states' budgets.
amending budget no 4 is an integral part of the package of amendments ensuring the balance of budget revenue and expenditure for 2014. in recent weeks, a compromise was sought through a trialogue on the final amount to be paid. i consider that the proposed amendments are the minimum necessary to meet the obligations arising from the implementation of a large number of programmes and projects which have already been approved by the council and are already at various stages of implementation. it is understood that the commitments undertaken must be fulfilled in compliance with the vfo and that other revenue generated by fines must also be used. i consider that the implementation of the revision of the budget financing from traditional own resources to be paid into the budget in 2014, as well as the revision of the vat and gni base for 2014 is beyond dispute. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, in particular through the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni). the correction for the purpose of offsetting the net 'unexpected gains' of traditional own funds is also applied in the case of the united kingdom for the period 2011 to 2013. these adjustments follow the rules applicable since 2007 as defined by the council decision on the system of the european communities' own resources (2007/436/ec, euratom).
written. i supported the report on the amendment of draft budget no 4 because it involves the inclusion of realised revenue, which will allow a reduction of the gni contribution of eur 1.59 billion and thus reduce the burden on member states. the european commission has included in the amended draft budget no 4 the amount of eur 2,4 billion generated by the collection of fines and interest on late payments. the amount of eur 2,4 billion will cover the deficit of eur 838,5 million resulting from the reduced contribution of the union's own resources (deficit of eur 646,1 million on the basis of import duties and deficit of eur 192,4 million on the basis of vat).
written. i support the draft amending budget (dab) for 2014 concerning the revision of the own resources and vat and gni base of the budget for the united kingdom and the revision of the forecast of other revenue from fines, which has the effect of allocating the own resources contribution among member states.
written. i am voting in favour of the motion for a resolution on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the solidarity fund in favour of italy, greece, slovenia and croatia, which have been affected by disasters such as heavy rainfall, rain, earthquakes, ice storms and floods. given that those disasters affected the majority of the population of the affected areas, leaving serious and lasting consequences on living conditions and economic stability, i support the fact that the european commission recognised the importance of also classifying greece and italy, although the damage estimate was below the threshold for the category of major natural disaster, while on the other hand, the estimates in croatia and slovenia were above the threshold. it strongly supports financial assistance directed at affected areas, particularly those where damage and consequences are devastating.
written. i welcome the compromise reached on the eu budget for 2014 and the compromise reached on the eu general budget for 2015. that's good news. the european union must now focus on the goals of providing a better life for its citizens, especially in those parts that have been hit by the economic crisis and are still slowly recovering from it or are still in recession, such as croatia. in the debate under this agenda item, i would particularly like to welcome the adoption of two decisions to mobilise the european solidarity fund, taking into account the ice storm in february 2014 followed by floods and for the floods that again hit croatia in may 2014. this year, nature has twice shown its destructive power in croatia and its neighborhood. the direct estimated damage in croatia is more than eur 370 million. unfortunately, despite all the efforts and solidarity shown by the inhabitants of other parts of croatia and europe, some of the inhabitants of the posavina municipality will not welcome christmas holidays in their homes. i hope that this assistance from the eu solidarity fund of some eur 17.6 million will help to speed up their return home and the recovery of the parts of croatia that have been hit by these severe disasters.
the european union solidarity fund was established to respond to large-scale natural disasters and to express solidarity within the european union for those countries affected by disasters. croatia submitted an application to mobilise the fund, following ice storms and subsequent floods in january and february 2014. the direct damage suffered by croatia amounted to eur 291 904 630 while the proposed amount from the eu solidarity fund for croatia amounted to eur 8 616 26. heavy rainfall in croatia caused catastrophic flooding that destroyed crops, collapsed roads, and homes, and forced the evacuation of people and livestock. in just three days, the amount of precipitation reached the quarterly average. the most severely affected cities and municipalities were: slavonski brod, oriovac, slavonski šamac, opisci, okučani and the wider area of županje. i support the adoption of the proposal of the european commission and the council to provide financial assistance to croatia to compensate for part of the damage caused by the disasters. requests for mobilization were also submitted by italy, greece, and slovenia. the commission has approved the mobilisation of the solidarity fund to the amount of eur 46 998 528, taking into account the maximum possible amount of grants.
croatia will receive eur 8,6 million from the european solidarity fund after fulfilling all the conditions for the damage caused by ice storms and floods that affected certain areas of croatia in early 2014. unfortunately, this elementary disaster affected the economically underdeveloped areas of primorje-gorsko, karlovac and sisak-moslavka counties, and additionally zagreb and varaždin counties. the recovery of demographically old and untouched areas requires the design of more long-term and comprehensive development strategies with instruments that do not necessarily focus on economic and financial factors alone. as gorski kotar was particularly badly affected by the icy rains, the greatest damage occurred in natural zones, namely in croatian forests. the commission notes that the aid granted to the beneficiary is limited to the minimum necessary to ensure the restoration of the forests in the area concerned. i supported the mobilisation of funds because of their focus on rehabilitating elements critical to the successful recovery of the affected areas.
the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund enables assistance to be provided to a member state following damage caused by a natural disaster. the mobilisation fund, which is not financed from the regular eu budget, shall be available for a maximum of eur 1 billion per year to supplement public expenditure of the member states. the european union has committed an amount of 46 998 528 for 2014. the commission notes that the aid granted to the beneficiaries was limited to the minimum necessary to cover the costs of the project. in some places, the damage was so severe that the entire city infrastructure was destroyed, leaving the population unable to function normally. the total aid granted for the first wave of flooding is eur 8 616 263. croatia has also applied to mobilise the fund within the time limits set, taking into account the floods and the storms. i myself visited flooded areas in croatia and i would like to point out how this fund is providing the necessary resources to help rebuild the hardest-hit areas so that these cities, areas and families can function normally again. therefore, i support the report.
written. i supported this proposal as i am well aware of these natural disasters and their consequences, and especially well aware of the consequences caused by ice and floods in croatia. i also addressed a question to the european commission to approve aid to croatia, given that the republic of croatia has also encountered ice in addition to floods, which has caused damage to long-distance pipelines and ancient forests. the amount of eur 8,6 million from the solidarity fund will not be sufficient to compensate for the damage caused by the destruction of the entire long-distance water infrastructure, as well as numerous crops, and the homelessness of many people, with an estimated damage of eur 297 million. however, money from the solidarity fund is needed in view of the poor economic situation in croatia, while eu aid will be more than welcome.
written. i supported this report because i believe that fiscal discipline, which i myself advocate, should not be at the expense of the most vulnerable. natural disasters create special circumstances in which we must show maximum solidarity. one way is to raise awareness of the need for mutual aid and humanitarian action in such crisis situations, as the european conservatives and reformists did in croatia by renovating a children's playground in the flooded eastern part of the country. but we should not forget the importance of institutional help, which is nevertheless a guarantee of a certain security for a community that has suffered and lost much through a web of unfortunate circumstances. the commission should also be able to provide information on the impact of the measures taken on the environment and the environment protection. the amendments adopted at the end of the last call, which, inter alia, introduce an advance measure to ensure timely response, are certainly a step in the right direction.
mr president, i have supported this amendment to the 2014 budget which mobilises eur 46,9 million from the european solidarity fund to help croatia, slovenia, italy, greece and austria recover from natural disasters. the damage amounted to eur 1,5 billion, and in croatia alone, ice and flooding in january and february 2014 caused the displacement of a large number of people and damage of eur 291,9 million. the budgetary adjustments shall mobilise an amount of eur 8,6 million from the european solidarity fund. this is not enough to cover all the damage in the republic of croatia and it is therefore very important to activate other means to help the affected areas.
mr president, a series of natural disasters, from floods to earthquakes to ice storms, have hit italy and greece, slovenia and croatia, causing significant damage to transport, energy and water networks and infrastructure, public buildings, private property and forests. the european solidarity fund was set up to respond to major natural disasters and to mitigate the costs of member states in such situations. i therefore consider that the adoption of this amendment to budget no 5 is essential in order to pay at least a small part of the damage that has occurred both in the republic of croatia and in a number of counties where the total amount of the damage estimate is almost eur 292 million, and these eur 8,6 million approved from the solidarity fund will help croatia, in terms of the national budget, to pay part of the damage to those counties most at risk in connection with these natural disasters.
the solidarity fund was set up with the intention of assisting member states and candidate countries in the event of natural disasters. the year 2014 will be remembered in croatia for the natural disasters that caused great human suffering and material damage. the mountain range was shackled by snow and ice earlier this year, and hit by floods that caused extensive damage to both public infrastructure and private property. the croatian government estimates the damage at €292 million, so the €8.6 million the european union plans to allocate to croatia is more than welcome. after gorj kotar, croatia suffered again in may when floods hit slavonia, causing even more destruction and damage of 297.6 million euros. the effects of the flood wave will be felt for a long time, but the government of the republic of croatia is making significant efforts to normalize the situation in order to allow citizens to return to their flooded homes. the eu's budget allocation of eur 8.9 million for flood relief will help these efforts significantly. i welcome these budgetary amendments because the appropriations show that the member states of the european union are not alone in their difficulties, but can count on the help of both the union and other member states.
written. i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the council position on draft amending budget no 5/2014 concerning the mobilisation of the solidarity fund following the floods in sardinia, italy, the earthquake in kefalonia, greece, the ice storms in slovenia and the ice storms followed by floods in croatia. i believe it is extremely important to help the areas affected by the elementary disasters so that the economic and social situation in those areas can be stabilized as soon as possible. the budgetary adjustment of eur 46998,528,00 to the 2014 budget will help in a concrete way all those who suffer the consequences of these events and are still recovering from them. a strong signal needs to be sent to the people living in the affected areas: the european union is present and ready to help. but i think that the aid needs to be more dynamic, faster and more comprehensive to avoid consequences.
in 2014, croatia was hit by major floods that also affected parts of italy, bosnia and herzegovina and serbia. the consequences were catastrophic, with over 15,000 people evacuated, most of them having lost everything they had. the total damage from flooding in croatia alone was estimated at eur 291,9 million, and the total damage in the mentioned areas amounted to eur 1,5 billion. although relief efforts are underway to help the affected areas, the residents will not be able to return to their homes, their farmland, and their lives for a long time. the mobilisation of the solidarity fund would provide eur 46,9 million from the european solidarity fund to assist the affected areas of italy, greece, slovenia and croatia. i support the report on mobilisation of the solidarity fund because of the major damage caused by the floods that needs to be sanctioned and the people who have lost their homes need to be provided with assistance, accommodation and conditions for a normal life. i also think it is important to use eu funds to provide preventive security in these areas because we are witnessing more and more natural disasters.
written. i have supported the report by mr depreza on the amendment of draft budget no 5/2014: floods in italy, sardinia in 2013, earthquakes in greece, ice and floods in slovenia and ice and floods in croatia in 2014, which stresses the urgent need to provide financial assistance through the european union solidarity fund to countries affected by natural disasters. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council, acting by a qualified majority on a proposal from the commission, and shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
written. i support the amendments to draft budget no 5/2014 concerning the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund of eur 46 998 528 for the 2013 floods in italy (sardinia), the earthquake in greece, the ice in slovenia and the ice and floods in croatia in 2014. i particularly welcome the funds for croatia, as many areas suffered from floods and freezing rains in january and early february 2014. it is now important that the funds be used as soon as possible through the relevant ministries to rebuild the affected areas. the assistance from the solidarity fund is also important for italy, greece, slovenia and croatia, as it will be a generator of economic activity in the affected areas, primarily in the construction sector, which has been hit the hardest by the economic crisis, alongside the reconstruction of the affected areas.
written. i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the council position on draft amending budget no 6/2014 because the financial resources saved by the late adoption of the legal basis of the european maritime and fisheries fund and the updated assessment of the state of play of the negotiations related to the sustainable fisheries partnership agreements will be directed to humanitarian crises. the commission will also be able to use the new financial perspective to support the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance. the commission notes that the amendments to the basic regulation are not intended to change the scope of the existing aid scheme.
written. the additional amounts identified by the statistical corrections will impose an additional budgetary burden on member states, especially those in difficult economic situations. i supported the report on draft amending budget no 6 for 2014, which will reduce member states' contributions based on gross national income by eur 4,5 billion.
written. i supported the report by mr depreza on the amendment of draft budget no 6\2014: review of the estimates of traditional own resources, vat and gni contributions, as the impact of draft amending budget no 6\2014 on member states' gni contributions is a reduction of eur 4 515,5 million and an increase of eur 420 million in the traditional own resources forecasts. i also welcome the proposal to use the amount of eur 6,2 million saved under the payment appropriations referred to in paragraph 2 to contribute to the financing of aid in the event of possible humanitarian crises by the end of the year. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 concerning the conditions for the participation of the republic of moldova in the union programme in accordance with article 21 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
written. i support this draft budget which concerns the revision of the estimates of traditional own resources and contributions based on vat and gni, the reduction of the appropriations allocated to the european maritime and fisheries fund and the reserve for the sustainable fisheries partnership agreements. the reason for the reduction in the appropriations related to the european maritime and fisheries fund is the late adoption of the legal basis of the fund. the main effect of the draft amending budget under the bnd across all member states is a reduction of eur 4 515,5 million.
written. i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund in favour of croatia, serbia and bulgaria, which have applied for it following the floods that affected them in may and june 2014. the weather disaster caused extensive damage to public and private infrastructure, destroyed hundreds of thousands of homes, and left behind memories of one of the worst floods in the area's history. all three countries requested an amount higher than the threshold of the fund for those countries. therefore, given the enormous damage caused and the urgent need for financial assistance in these areas, i strongly support the mobilisation of the solidarity fund for the benefit of the countries mentioned.
written. i supported the report on the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund for croatia, serbia and bulgaria of eur 79.7 million to try to repair the consequences of the catastrophic floods in may this year. the total damage in the flooded areas in croatia is estimated at eur 297,6 million. thousands of people have been displaced, transportation and energy infrastructure damaged, crops and livestock destroyed, and housing flooded. eur 8,9 million will be allocated to croatia through the european union solidarity fund to repair the damage caused. in addition to the available resources from the eu solidarity fund, i believe that funds from the european union funds, the european investment bank and other sources of funding should be mobilised to avoid disasters of this scale in the future.
written. heavy rainfall in eastern croatia from 13 to 15 may caused catastrophic flooding that led to the collapse of traffic routes and the evacuation of the population. the amount of rainfall in just three days reached the quarterly average. the unstable terrain, the size of the flooded area, the damage to houses and other facilities, crops and livestock, the danger of mines and the large number of long-term displaced persons from croatia, as well as from bih, are the reasons why croatia has requested international assistance. the direct damage suffered by croatia amounted to eur 297 629 million, while the proposed amount from the eu solidarity fund for assistance to croatia was eur 8 959 725. the commission has also received a request from serbia, croatia and bulgaria to mobilise the solidarity fund in the amount of eur 79 726 440. i think croatia should invest in a better flood defense system to reduce future damage.
written. i supported the mobilisation of the solidarity fund because i believe it will help croatia, serbia and bulgaria recover from the damage caused by the major floods. as a croatian representative, i am personally aware of the unfortunate events that have taken place in croatia and other countries. the commission notes that the aid granted to the beneficiaries of the aid is limited to the minimum necessary to cover the costs of the project. in the republic of croatia, floods caused damage totalling eur 197 million, representing almost 0,7% of the gross national income. more than 4000 commercial buildings and more than 2700 residential buildings were flooded, and most of the buildings have permanent structural damage. also, of particular concern is the fact that during the floods, more than 26,000 people were evacuated from their homes. the overall situation is complicated by the damage to infrastructure in the affected areas, whose reconstruction is crucial for the normalization of the lives of citizens. the solidarity fund will greatly facilitate this process, the funds from the fund will help to repair the damage more effectively, but it will also directly lead to increased stability and facilitate the economic recovery of the countries. for all these reasons, i voted to mobilize this solidarity fund.
written. the solidarity fund is a tool that enables the european union to support a member state quickly and effectively in its efforts to cope with damage caused by a major natural disaster. the fund is financed from the regular eu budget and can be made available for up to €1 billion per year. the estimated damage is as follows: serbia eur 1 105 622 million, croatia eur 297 629 million, bulgaria eur 311 328 million. the commission has proposed to mobilise the european union solidarity funds for a total amount of eur 79 726 440. this support will certainly help member states and their inhabitants to repair the damage and rebuild the damaged parts. i have personally visited flooded areas in croatia and for that reason i understand the importance of these funds to get the economy back on track. the funds will help to rebuild infrastructure in affected areas, especially rural areas. it is also important to provide a dignified life for the affected population. therefore, i support the report.
written. the solidarity fund is one of the instruments that allows the european union to support a member state quickly and effectively in its efforts to cope with damage caused by a major natural disaster. the fund is financed from the regular eu budget, which also has a budget of €1 billion per year. although the estimated damage was: in serbia, eur 1 105 622 million, in croatia, eur 297 629 million, in bulgaria, eur 311 328 million, i am aware that the funds from the union budget will not be sufficient to cover the total damage. i therefore supported the commission's proposal to mobilise union solidarity funds totalling eur 79 726 440, of which eur 8,9 million will go to croatia, eur 60,2 million to serbia and eur 10,5 million to bulgaria, and i also called on the member states to take seriously the development of flood protection strategies and infrastructure construction so that this scenario would not be repeated in the future.
written. i voted in favour of this report, although i share the concerns of the majority in my group regarding the draft amending budget for 2014 and the draft budget for 2015. while rightly demanding fiscal discipline from member states accustomed to spending money they don't have, the institutions of the european union often behave just as irresponsibly. the credibility of the union in the eyes of the member states and citizens cannot be built in this way and european finances will finally have to be put in order. but as a representative from croatia, i know very well the situation in the area directly affected by the may floods. people who have lost their roofs and now live in containers don't care about our political over-thinking of them in abstract terms. they see europe through a life of dignity that they do not have at the moment, and yet the payment of these subsidies can help us to restore their lost dignity. that's why i endorsed this report.
mr. president, this budget amendment is also very important for the mobilization of 80 million euros to help croatia, bulgaria, serbia after the great floods in may this year. these are funds that are significant for the remediation of damage, but it is still very important to keep in mind that funds need to be allocated for preventive infrastructure and in general prevention of these major floods that are increasingly common at the level of the european union. so we need to think about how to invest as much as possible in the european funds, the european investment bank and other sources of financing to prevent such accidents and disasters from happening in the future.
mr president, draft amending budget no 7 for 2014 is extremely important because it allows the disbursement of funds from the european solidarity fund for the republic of croatia, and because of the great damage caused by the floods, which destroyed public and private infrastructure and damaged hundreds of thousands of homes in may this year, both in croatia, but also in serbia, our neighboring country, as well as in bosnia and herzegovina. these are in any case major difficulties that needed to be addressed by a quality signature, above all the damage estimated at almost eur 300 million, the funds provided in this budget for the republic of croatia of almost eur 9 million together with those for floods and ice that were a few months earlier, make up a total aid to croatia of about eur 16,5 million. i believe that these funds will ease the croatian budget to help a number of counties that were severely affected by this disaster.
mr president, the european union solidarity fund was set up in 2002 in response to the severe floods and i would like to thank all the citizens and institutions who have helped. the amount granted is of course not nearly enough to cover the costs, but it is a strong confirmation of one of the fundamental principles of the european union, the principle of solidarity. but i do warn of the problem of better flood damage prevention that is necessary given the outdated ways of managing rivers in europe, and so in croatia. but it comes with a lot of damage control. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the amount of the compensation for the costs of the infrastructure. given that the direct damage from flooding this year alone in croatia amounts to almost 300 million euros, the question arises as to how feasible the expected investments are. better prevention also reduces the potential costs of future rehabilitation. i hope that the european union, through the funds, will be able to help member states to make the expected investments and to achieve them.
mr president, i voted in favour of this report, although i share the concern of the majority in my group regarding the draft amendments to the 2014 budget and the draft budget for 2015. while rightly demanding fiscal discipline from member states accustomed to spending money they don't have, the eu institutions often behave just as irresponsibly. the credibility of the union in the eyes of the member states and citizens cannot be built in this way and european finances will finally have to be put in order. but as a representative from croatia, i am very familiar with the situation in the area directly affected by the may floods. people who have lost their roofs and now live in containers don't care about our political over-thinking of them in abstract terms. they see europe through a life of dignity that they don't have at the moment, and yet the payment of these subsidies can help us to restore their lost dignity and that's why i supported this project.
the solidarity fund was set up with the intention of assisting member states and candidate countries in the event of natural disasters. the year 2014 will be remembered in croatia for the natural disasters that caused great human suffering and material damage. the mountain range was shackled by snow and ice earlier this year, and hit by floods that caused extensive damage to both public infrastructure and private property. the croatian government estimates the damage at €292 million, so the €8.6 million the european union plans to allocate to croatia is more than welcome. after gorj kotar, croatia suffered again in may when floods hit slavonia, causing even more destruction and damage of 297.6 million euros. the effects of the flood wave will be felt for a long time, but the government of the republic of croatia is making significant efforts to normalize the situation in order to allow citizens to return to their flooded homes. the eu's budgetary allocation of eur 8.9 million for flood relief will help to make this effort a reality. i welcome these budgetary amendments because the appropriations show that the member states of the european union are not alone in their difficulties, but can count on the help of both the union and other member states.
written. i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the council position on draft amending budget no 7/2014 concerning the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund to provide assistance for the 2014 flood damage in serbia, croatia and bulgaria, as the envisaged eur 79 726 440,00 will significantly help these areas which have not yet recovered from the effects of the floods. many people have lost their homes or have suffered extensive damage and live in "container settlements". economic development in these areas is suffering and lagging behind because of these hardships. it is urgent to help the people living there recover from the significant losses and resume a normal life. the assistance from the solidarity fund will contribute to the reconstruction and rehabilitation process, which, with joint assistance and synergies, should be completed as soon as possible.
written. i have supported the report by mr depreza on the amendment of draft budget no 7\2014 due to the floods in serbia, croatia and bulgaria concerning the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund in the amount of eur 79 726 440 in commitment appropriations and payment appropriations for damage caused by natural disasters. it should be stressed that the european union solidarity fund must urgently provide assistance to the countries affected by this natural disaster.
written. i support the above amendment to the flood budgets in serbia, croatia and bulgaria, as i am aware of the extent of the damage caused by the floods in may and june in those countries. the amount of eur 79 726 440 will certainly not be sufficient to compensate for all the damage, but it will ease the financial situation of national governments still facing the consequences of the damage. i believe that these funds will accelerate the reconstruction of villages, housing and business facilities which, according to the bereaved population, should be speeded up and will be a positive input towards the recovery of the economies of these countries.
written. i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the council position on draft amending budget no 8/2014 as it enters eur 1,005 million in the 2014 budget as surplus from the 2013 budget. this will reduce the share of the member states' gni contribution to the budget of the european union and thus reduce their contribution to other budgetary amendments. it is important that the amendments to be adopted are in line with the principles of sound financial management and consistent with the priorities of the union.
written. i supported the report on the amendment of draft budget no 8 by which the european commission included a budget surplus of around eur 1 billion from the financial year 2013. the implementation of the amendment to draft budget no 8 will reduce the member states' contributions to the budget of the european union on the basis of gross national income by eur 1 billion, replacing the member states' contributions resulting from the implementation of draft budgets no 3, 5 and 7, which mobilise funds to pay old accounts and the european solidarity fund for member states affected by natural disasters.
amending budget no 8 is an integral part of the package of amendments ensuring the balance of budget revenue and expenditure for 2014. the current draft amending budget replaces nip 2/2014 from april this year which, following the rejection of nip 3/2014, has not been accepted until now. the commission therefore resubmitted the draft, which is an important component of the amending budget for 2014. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the amount of the aid granted to the beneficiary in the period from 1 january 2014 to 31 december 2015. i consider the whole package of budgetary amendments before us to be an acceptable compromise which will allow us to implement a plan that ensures the necessary growth for the eu member states while remaining within the multiannual financial framework.
written. i supported the report by mr depreza on the amendment of draft budget no 8\2014 to include €1 005 million as surplus from the financial year 2013 in the 2014 budget and the adoption of draft amending budget no 8\2014 to reduce by €1 005 million the share of the member states' contribution under the gni budget and thus partially replace their contribution to the financing of draft amending budget no 3,5 and 7\2014.
written. i support the above mentioned amendment to budget no 8/2014 which is directed to the surplus resulting from the 2013 budget. the commission has also decided to extend the deadline for the submission of the draft amending budget to 31 december 2014 by a further three months.
written. i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution on the proposal for a council regulation amending regulation no 1150/2000 because i believe that there is a need to better align the national contributions of the member states and because that regulation has caused one-off effects on some member states. it is necessary to establish a system of national contributions that is clear, transparent and balanced in order to avoid overpayments or underpayments. a well-balanced and well-considered budget represents the correct implementation of the political priorities set by the union. it is important to better align the contribution of the member states in order to contribute to the quality of budget implementation and to address the shortcomings of the current system.
written. i supported the report on the coordination of national contributions by member states. the contributions of the member states to the budget of the european union on the basis of gni and vat account for the largest part of the eu's budgetary revenue. each year in october, on the basis of the latest bnd statistics, the member state makes a correction of its contribution to the eu budget. this year's audit found that for years some member states had paid less and some more into the eu budget. croatia paid more because the invoice was based on a larger bnd. with the economy in a continuous downturn, he'll get a return of 32.5 million euros. the largest refunds will be paid to france (eur 1 billion) and germany (eur 779.2 million), with additional amounts to be paid by the united kingdom (eur 2.1 billion), the netherlands (eur 642.7 billion) and italy (eur 340.1 million). this correction will return €3.69 billion to member states that have paid more into the eu budget, and €3.2 billion to member states that have paid less. the total contribution of the member states under the gni to the eu budget will be reduced by a total of eur 420 million. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 concerning the conditions for the participation of the european parliament and of the council in the work of the committee of the regions.
written. due to the exceptionally high level of additional resources to be paid by certain member states as a result of the alignment of own resources contributions based on gni during 2014, the commission submitted to the council a proposal for a council regulation amending the regulation on the system of the european communities' own resources. i welcome the commission's proposal as it gives member states the flexibility needed to pay the amount resulting from the reconciliation of national contributions (own resources) on the basis of value added tax and gross national income, if the total amount is extremely high. i would also point out the importance of communication and of taking account of the views of the european court of auditors. it is also important that eurostat adheres to the recommendation of the court of auditors as regards its verification methodology in order to fully respect the principle of equal treatment of member states in practice. therefore, i support the report.
written. i support the proposal to amend regulation (ec, euratom) no 1150/2000 because the provision of large sums of money can certainly represent (and does represent) fiscal and other pressures for economically weaker member states. if this proposal leads to real aid rather than just prescribed aid, it will be a great relief to some member states in the current economic crisis. we can and must use every means at our disposal to alleviate the situation, but equally, those means must not be used when they are not necessary. efficiency and solidarity are the fundamental principles of the european union.
written. i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund to provide an amount of eur 50 million in the 2015 budget to allow for a faster and more efficient response to major natural disasters during the following year. the fund was established to deal with major natural disasters as efficiently as possible and to provide financial assistance to affected countries and regions, i.e. eu member states and acceding countries, as quickly and effectively as possible. i think it is extremely important that member states and acceding countries receive financial assistance at the time of a disaster faster than is possible under the normal procedure. such support by the eu carries a clear political message of solidarity while providing assistance to those in need.
in the last three years, natural disasters around the world have claimed more than 40,000 lives and caused economic losses worth some $350 billion. in 2012, the largest economic losses, totaling $18 billion, were caused by floods that affected germany, the czech republic, and neighboring countries. this year, the storm and its aftermath, andreas, hit germany and france in july, causing an estimated $3.8 billion in economic damage. the biggest natural disaster of the year, cyclone donat, hit croatia, italy, bosnia and herzegovina and serbia in the spring, causing catastrophic consequences. the consequences in croatia were unimaginable, with over 15,000 people evacuated and total damage estimated at over 220 million euros. these are just some of the natural disasters that have struck europe and left behind damages that have not been repaired to this day. i therefore support this proposal to mobilise eur 50 million from the european union solidarity fund. this money is needed to repair damaged areas and prevent further damage. the consequences of increasingly frequent natural disasters are enormous, not only in terms of loss of life but also in terms of loss of homes, jobs, industries, and economies that once thrived in the area.
written. i support the decision to mobilise up to eur 50 million from the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013 for the payment of advances and other appropriations. since its creation in 2002, the fund has disbursed more than eur 3.5 billion to help with the recovery of 56 disasters, clearly demonstrating the fund's legitimacy and its importance to the european union. although the very existence of the fund is a sign of the european union's unity and solidarity, i believe that the disbursement of funds should be more effective in order to recover as quickly as possible from the consequences of natural disasters. the increasingly large and costly impact of climate change is making it clear that the solidarity fund will become an increasingly important eu financial instrument. the european union must change its approach to climate change as soon as possible. as a community, we must direct our public policies towards preventing climate change. our collective resources in this approach can have a much greater impact while focusing only on repairing the damage is unsustainable in the long run.
the european union solidarity fund has a protection and recovery role in places affected by various disasters. the amount of eur 50 000 000 is secured for this fund and should be included in the 2015 payment budget on the basis of the principle of solidarity in order to address the greatest needs. i support the mobilisation of the solidarity fund because it provides solutions to natural disasters that are beyond the control and predictability of humans, and which leave behind them a loss of life and material consequences. the purpose of this tool is to show solidarity with the people of the region affected by the disaster. it allows for a faster and more efficient recovery of the affected areas and i therefore support the report.
written. solidarity is one of the fundamental principles of the european union. it is in these times of severe natural disasters that we have the opportunity to apply this principle in practice. this is one of the reasons why i supported this initiative, as it provides assistance through the solidarity fund to member states which, in addition to suffering the severe consequences of natural disasters, are in a poor economic situation. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council. natural disasters have become more frequent in recent years and, in addition to mobilising the solidarity fund, i call on all member states to make use of the eu funds available to them to prevent natural disasters as much as possible.
written. i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument for the financing of the structural funds programme for cyprus as this will ensure the adequate implementation of the economic and social growth of that country. i believe that the flexibility of the european union budget is of great importance, as it would help to react quickly to various situations that cannot be financed within the limits of the available appropriations. i also support the use of the funds mobilised through the funds specifically to finance the structural funds programmes because of the obvious importance of those funds for cyprus.
the european union shall assist all member states, in particular developing countries, in accordance with the principle of solidarity. cyprus has a specific situation of constant conflict with the turkish side of the island and needs special support and assistance. cyprus's development is slow. the unemployment rate has been rising for the past two years, with october 2014 data showing a rate of 15.3 percent. the commission also found that the union industry's sales volume and market share decreased by 8% during the period considered. i support the european union's efforts to help in situations like this. the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument will ensure the financing of the structural funds programme for cyprus, support the drivers of economic growth and reduce unemployment.
written. in view of the previous cases of mobilisation of the flexibility instrument under the multiannual financial framework, i consider its use to be an important corrective measure for the financing and implementation of major structural programmes in the member states. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council, acting by a qualified majority on a proposal from the commission, and shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council. i consider it indicative that the commission proposal authorises the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument for cyprus in 2014 as well, but only in the commitment part defined under the mff items without authorising additional appropriations for credited payments. finally, it is important to highlight last year's mobilisation of the flexibility instrument proposed by the epp group's parliamentary club to the european parliament, and we have supported this time the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument to finance the programme in cyprus.
written. i support this report and the decision to finance the cyprus structural funds for development and employment, which will be allocated eur 100 000. this appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the purchase, hire or leasing of equipment and installations, the purchase, hire or leasing of motor vehicles, and the purchase, hire or leasing of motor vehicles for the transport of dangerous goods, and the purchase, hire or leasing of motor vehicles for the transport of dangerous goods. investing in employment and staff development is one of the primary objectives of european union policy, especially in times of high unemployment. people are a significant resource, and the development of societies and economies depends very much on the development of the population, and that is why i support this report.
written. i fully support this decision to finance the cyprus structural funds for development and employment, which will be allocated €100 000 million. this is expenditure that will lead to increased employment, modernisation of social protection systems, flexibility of the labour market, increased investment in human capital through better education and skills and strengthening of administrative capacity. investing in employment is one of the primary objectives of european union policy, especially in times of high unemployment. people are our most important resource, our future depends on the success of our young people, and any money that is diverted to help employment and development is money well invested and i will continue to support it.
written. i voted in favour of the new draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2015 because i consider it to be balanced and in line with the eu guidelines for the following year. in the context of the severe financial crisis europe is experiencing, it is important to direct budgetary expenditure towards sustainable growth and the creation of a competitive economy that will be able to drive progress and positive growth. it is important to ensure that the budget is able to withstand and cope with possible crisis situations. i also support the importance of cohesion policy within the european budget, which certainly plays a major role, and the principle of flexibility as regards the structure of the budget itself.
written. the 2015 budget of the european union failed to be finalised by 17 november. the new draft was necessary because negotiations between the european parliament and the council were not easy. i support the new budget proposal which seeks to address unpaid bills and, as soon as possible, to root out the problems that have arisen. this budget is not just for companies, students or ngos, it is for all eu citizens. the new budget contributes to growth and job creation, which is of paramount importance for all member states, including croatia.
mr president, the agreement on the 2015 budget was reached in the conciliation process and i supported it because it was important to ensure the implementation of the programme and payments from the beginning of the year. the 2015 budget still fails to address the problem of unpaid bills and i expect all institutions to engage more concretely in addressing this burning issue. the payments were approved at eur 141.2 billion, a significant reduction from the parliament's proposal of eur 146.4 billion. the commission has already provided a detailed analysis of the measures taken to implement the 2014 budget, including the measures to be taken in the light of the 2014 budget. since 2010, the outstanding commitments have been growing and it is time to review the process of managing the eu budget.
written. i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the council position on the new draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2015, as i consider that the level of unpaid bills, which is currently one of the problems of the european union, needs to be reduced in the coming years and that all revenues and expenditure need to be balanced. i consider it good to increase the appropriations for commitments and payments for 2015 and to mobilise the contingency reserve. the budget of the european union should be in line with the political priorities, with particular attention to budgetary commitments to cohesion policy. the financial crisis currently affecting the european union requires a balanced but robust budget that can meet the challenges ahead.
written. i supported the report by my colleagues gardiazabal rubial and hohlmeier and underlined that, after difficult negotiations as part of the trialogue, the draft package consisting of three elements, draft amending budget no 3/8\2014 for a total amount of eur 49,8 million in appropriations for payments, the union budget for 2015, an amount of eur 145 321,5 million and eur 141 214 million in appropriations for commitments and payments respectively, and six joint statements and three unilateral statements. efforts should be stepped up to reduce the level of unpaid bills to a sustainable level, paying particular attention to cohesion policy. the european union budget must be developed and inclusive, as demonstrated by including a full package of pilot projects and preparatory measures and eur 95 million for horizon 2020, cosme, erasmus and humanitarian aid.
written. i supported the proposal as one of the key points of the draft general budget for 2015 is to promote competitiveness, which is crucial for economic growth and job preservation, a greater role for smes as a guarantee of sustainable growth, but also to be ready to react quickly and effectively to situations such as the russian ban on food imports and to adapt to market needs. some of the important issues covered are security, citizenship and visa policy to facilitate travel as well as the obligation to set aside (global europe) and the reduction of posts in the administration, but also the correction (reduction/increase) of resources for the various institutions.
written. i voted out of the resolution on the draft commission regulation supplementing the regulation as regards the classification of serious infringements of union rules and amending annex iii to directive 2006/22/ec, as the commission proposal is not sufficiently clear or sufficiently detailed. roads are the lifeblood of the european economy and road transport is the lifeline of the european economy. we are witnessing a number of problems of unfair competition and so-called 'social dumping' in the trucking industry. there are many examples of great differences in regulations between member states and as i support the idea of standardising regulations, because standardising those regulations relies on the free movement of people and goods, i did not support the proposal for a regulation. by taking the no position, i wanted to make clear my support for all those who are calling for the european commission to come out with far clearer rules to increase road safety.
written. i support the motion for a resolution rejecting the proposal for a commission regulation on the classification of serious infringements of union rules. the 2009 regulation defines four criteria that road freight transport service providers must fulfil in order to be authorised to provide those services. the 'good repute' criterion was established with the aim of ensuring the ethical behaviour of entrepreneurs. in order to ensure consistent application of the rules in all member states, it is necessary that the list defining the categories of infringement is complete and clear. i do not think that is the case with the proposal which has been sent to us from the commission. at this stage, the practical implementation of the regulation is very uneven within the european union because the definition of infringements is left to the national authorities responsible for this area. this amendment to the regulation does not, unfortunately, ensure the necessary harmonisation of implementation. since the proposed list is limited to those actions which result in death or serious injury, i consider that the list is incomplete. given that the regulation provides that data on serious infringements of the rules will be available for electronic exchange between member states by 1 january 2016 at the latest and that the lack of harmonised rules for the practical application of the rules already creates obstacles for businesses, i consider it necessary to speed up the drafting of the full text and its implementation.
written. i fully support this proposal because i consider that the draft regulation of the european commission is not in line with the content and the objective of the existing regulation establishing common rules concerning the conditions for the pursuit of the activity of road transport operator. this sketch is incomplete and completely complicates the way we interpret the types of serious injuries.
written. road transport is well represented in all member states, including croatia. i therefore welcome the adoption of a regulation which formalises minimum conditions for social regulations relating to road transport activities, proposes a new set of rules with far stricter penalties and checks. the common objective is to improve road traffic quality and checks must be carried out in phases to obtain a complete picture of the situation. police officers need to be provided with all the equipment to make the result more effective and faster. it is important that member states also adapt to the regulation on the common training programme, and only when there are means to solve a potential problem can we expect results in this respect too.
written. i voted out of the resolution on the draft commission directive laying down the method of calculation and the reporting requirements under directive 98/70/ec on the quality of petrol and diesel fuels on the grounds that it calls for the withdrawal of the draft council directive which certainly does not achieve the highest necessary environmental protection standards but also aligns the need to reduce co2 emissions with the current needs of the fuel production and distribution sector. the directive also takes into account the non-conformity of the manufacturers' technology and takes into account the practical implementation of future measures through the differentiation of fuel types. this will allow the implementation of the 6% co2 reduction target to start in the short term. the adoption of the resolution would prolong the procedure without precise deadlines and would in the short term cause greater damage to the environment. in voting, i took into account the needs of the croatian economy and the previous positions of the croatian government as well as the need of the estonian oil industry to be brought into problems that would have political implications in addition to economic ones.
written. the methods set out in this report do not provide a clear and precise formula for calculating greenhouse gas emissions into the environment. the reason is that the documents submitted do not allow a precise assessment of the origin, the volume, the type and the life cycle of the greenhouse gases. i call on the commission to adopt implementing measures relating to the greenhouse gas monitoring and reduction mechanism. the commission is currently examining the methodology for calculating greenhouse gas emissions from fuels and other non-biological energy sources. in this context, i consider that the annual reports of suppliers should be harmonised before being submitted to the member states and then the member states should do the same in the commission's reporting process, all for the purpose of high-quality and simple monitoring and reduction of greenhouse gas emissions in the union. for all the above reasons, i have not endorsed this report.
written. while the proposal for this directive aims in principle to reduce greenhouse gas intensity, imposes a decarbonisation obligation, requires suppliers to calculate life cycle greenhouse gas emissions for biofuels, requires the use of the same average default values for all fossil raw materials, i consider that the methodology does not take into account all the necessary parameters that would guarantee further emission reductions or environmental integrity, and i support the re-drafting of the council directive. i agree to the submission of the request for disaggregated average greenhouse gas intensity values and for reporting by raw material type for petrol and diesel fuels and for suppliers to be allowed to report on actual values. for the reasons stated above, i did not support this proposal.
written. i abstained from voting on the resolution on the commission delegated regulation adopting a discard plan for the baltic sea because i am fundamentally opposed to the fishing of small fish. although the alde group was for, i decided to be related because it expressed my view that small-scale fishing, especially in the high seas, is a serious problem. i was basically advocating for a ban on fishing for cod in the baltic sea up to a size of 38 cm. today, cod can be caught as early as when the fish reaches a length of 35 cm. a difference of just 3 centimeters significantly affects the overall size of the cod. i have also expressed my views on the protection of the sea and the fish stocks. in many conversations with mr walter dodich, i have come to the conclusion that premature fishing significantly reduces the fish stock and causes irreversible damage in the long term.
written. one of the main objectives of the new common fisheries policy (cfp) is to phase out discarding in all eu fisheries by introducing a landing obligation. the intention is to make better use of available resources and to respond to public expectations to put an end to the practice of discarding surplus fish back into the sea. the high levels of discarded catches have been identified as an important reason for the lack of environmental sustainability of the common fisheries policy and i have therefore supported this report.
written. the challenge of sustainable fishing is to bring factors under control that can be controlled during fishing to ensure that there are enough individuals in the sea to naturally replenish the population. factors that cannot be influenced are population biomass increase and natural mortality, and these depend on environmental conditions and biological characteristics of the species (rejuvenation and growth). the commission has also concluded that the fishing opportunities available to the union are limited to the areas referred to in article 4 of regulation (eu) no 1380/2013. since cod, herring and papalina have strong biological interactions, they are extremely important components of the baltic ecosystem. the ecological conditions in the baltic can have a strong impact on the productivity of baltic fish stocks, in particular cod and parrotfish, and the council decision on tacs therefore seeks to reduce quotas (7% for the western part of the baltic and 22% for the eastern part) with a view to conserving those species. this was regulated on 1 january 2014 by the regulation of the european parliament and of the council of 11 december 2013 on the common fisheries policy. in this respect, i support the commission's proposal to adopt a discard plan for the baltic sea. i believe that the sustainable exploitation of marine biological resources would be more effectively achieved through a multiannual approach to fisheries management and that it should be based on transparent and objective criteria, including those of an environmental, social and economic nature.
written. i did not support the regulation which objects to the plan adopted by the commission for discarding catches in the baltic sea because that plan could potentially endanger the reproductive capacity of that species, a worrying fact to which parliament has reacted. the council has decided to reduce the quota to protect the species, as there are fewer cod in the sea at the moment. the mere fact that the minimum cod reference size has also been reduced from 38 cm to 35 cm is sufficient to reconsider the commission's plan and therefore the current regulation needs to be amended in order to achieve a more efficient and realistic plan and to minimise the damage and the protection of the species.
written. i voted against the resolution on the commission delegated regulation supplementing the directive on the taking-up and pursuit of the business of insurance and reinsurance because the whole alde group was against it, although i am not entirely happy with the delegated act in force. as the agreement on the delegated act, which we call 'solvency ii', was a very sensitive issue, i am of the opinion that the delegated act should have its own continuity. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules.
written. i do not consider that additional annexes to the delegated regulation are necessary and therefore do not support this proposal. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and to monitor the implementation of the new rules and regulations. the solvency ii directive will introduce a modern, harmonised framework for the establishment and supervision of insurance and reinsurance undertakings in the union. those new rules are crucial for a safe and stable insurance sector that can offer sustainable insurance products and support the real economy with long-term investment and additional stability.
written. this directive provides for the establishment of modern and risk-based supervision of insurance and reinsurance undertakings in the european union and, consequently, in croatia. i consider the proposal to be a good one, but it must take into account all the measurable risks to which insurance/reinsurance undertakings are exposed and the solvency capital which must correspond to the risk value of the underlying own funds of the company with a confidence level of 99,5% over a period of one year. i consider that the annexes to the commission delegated regulation supplementing directive 2009/138/ec of the european parliament and of the council on the taking-up and pursuit of the business of insurance and reinsurance do not adequately take into account all the risks faced by companies in the eu market today and therefore i have not supported this proposal.
written. i voted in favour of the resolution on the renewal of the eu internal security strategy to take effect for the next four years, as the current internal security strategy (iss) needs to be thoroughly evaluated and updated. the new strategy will cover existing security threats, but also all new ones that have not existed until now, but have become present at international level and, due to their complexity, require better cooperation between member states to deal with them adequately. these include, for example, internet safety for children and adults, data protection and privacy, human trafficking, the fight against organised crime, corruption, terrorism, money laundering, various crimes and more. i believe that the future updated internal security strategy will better encourage operational cooperation between member states and a european law enforcement culture.
the current internal security strategy of the european union expires at the end of 2014. the commission should therefore publish a communication on a new internal security strategy for the period 2015 to 2019 in the coming days. i supported this report because it covers all the key security issues the problem of trafficking in human beings, the fight against terrorism, the security of eu citizens travelling to third countries and to countries affected by war and others. the report calls for a comprehensive approach to the ongoing threats to the security of union citizens. furthermore, the new strategy focuses on the protection of victims of war-affected areas. i call on the commission to provide in the documents the appropriate financial means for the new security strategy 2015-2019, as well as the financial means needed by the european union security agencies, such as europol. the strategy also needs better coordination in the fight against serious crime. it is necessary to take into account the democratic oversight of security strategies in accordance with the treaty.
written. following the parliamentary questions addressed to the commission and the council at the last plenary session of the ep, i support the resolution of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs on the renewal of the eu internal security strategy. the internal security strategy adopted in 2010 identified the main challenges and threats to the eu's internal security. since then, circumstances have changed: the eu and its member states face many new challenges, and europe will face the consequences of instability in different parts of the world and in its immediate neighbourhood. events such as the arab spring, the current crisis in syria and the situation in ukraine call for appropriate responses and a redefined strategy that addresses existing and future threats and strengthens the interaction between the internal and external dimensions of security policy. given that the current internal security strategy ends in 2014 and that the european commission has launched political discussions and consultations in preparation for the development of a new internal security strategy for the period 2015-2019, i consider it important that the european parliament, at this time, expresses its views in a substantive resolution on the priorities and activities to be included in the new strategy.
written. security is a basic condition for survival, both socially and economically, in any community, including the european union, and is a fundamental value of society. with new dangers, new forms of security must be found. security is a fundamental human right and freedom. the european union has a duty to protect its citizens, their lives and health, and fundamental human rights. i welcome the new internal security strategy, which means upgrading the european union in the protection of citizens, better information exchange between police services, better fight against crime and a better system for the protection of asylum seekers, who represent a major unresolved problem for the european union. we are all aware of the seriousness of the problems of crime, terrorism, and natural disasters that are fertile ground for the growth of serious crime. i hope that this renewal of the strategy will make a real contribution to the internal security of the european union as a whole and of its citizens.
mr president, i regard the joint resolution of the european parliament on the recognition in principle of palestinian statehood as the beginning or continuation of a historically important process, not as its arrest or relativization. the resolution represents a welcome compromise between the main political groups that share the same goal but differ in the process of achieving it. it finally opens the way for a more engaged european diplomacy in a part of the world that has been particularly devastated this year by old conflicts and new brutality. i see the future of an independent palestine not as a new factor in the emergence of a long-term conflict, but as a new possibility for a more effective search for a more lasting peaceful solution. i would quote an israeli politician who recently said that israel should not exhaust itself waiting for the ideal partner on the palestinian side to make a lasting peace agreement. on the other hand, our resolution raises the expectation that the palestinian representatives will use the european parliament's confidence responsibly and contribute to the realisation of the concept of two states that renounce violence and terrorism and cooperate in peace.
mr. president, i voted in favor of this resolution because it reflects my position, as well as the position of european citizens on the establishment of two states to be achieved through peace negotiations. in particular, statehood requires legal and orderly functioning that excludes support for organisations that can be called terrorist or that are guided by the principles of any form of fundamentalism, including religious fundamentalism. hamas' behaviour, its resistance to finding non-violent solutions and its support for attacks on israeli territory and its use of its own people as human shields are the biggest obstacles to the continuation of peace talks. the cessation of armed attacks by the palestinian authority and the resumption of peace negotiations are therefore a precondition for the recognition of a palestinian state. the parties shall also allow humanitarian organisations to deliver humanitarian aid to the palestinian population without hindrance in accordance with the geneva convention. i take this opportunity to call once again on the opposing sides to continue peace negotiations and to find solutions that will secure and enable israel and palestinian statehood and solutions that will ensure lasting peace in that area.
written. i supported the resolution on the recognition of palestinian statehood because i believe that the middle east peace process has been blocked for a long time and there is no sign that the situation will change soon. the introduction of new elements, such as the international recognition of a palestinian state, can provide the necessary impetus for finding a just solution and achieving lasting peace in the middle east.
written. i voted in favour of the resolution on the recognition of palestinian statehood because it is a very balanced resolution and offers the possibility of creating an area of peace in a region that has been troubled for decades in the middle east. the existence of sovereign states of israel and palestine based on mutual recognition and good interstate relations is the foundation for peace in the middle east. it was important to me that in recent months many prominent supporters of this resolution in israel have come forward and that there has been a debate within the alde group and in the european parliament. i was also motivated by the desire to make the european union more present in this long-standing conflict in political and security terms. i consider that to be in the direct interest of the european union.
the israeli-palestinian conflict is the central conflict in the middle east. considering the conflict began in 1948 and the fact that it has never ended, it is considered one of the most severe conflicts of our time. the political perspective and processes in the palestinian and israeli territories are lacking and the resumption of peace negotiations is a priority. i support the resolution because it calls for peace and the resumption of peace negotiations which should also result in the recognition of a palestinian state within the 1967 borders (the so-called green line) with its capital in jerusalem as the joint capital of the two states. we are aware that the creation of such a state is the key to a lasting, just and sustainable peace and to resolving the conflict that has generated instability in that part of the world for decades. however, this does not mean that the state should be recognized without any obligations by the palestinians and their self-government. the state is not only a right, but also a great obligation and responsibility. we need to be sure that the palestinians will lead their state in the desired direction and maintain peace and that the palestinians and the israelis will sit down at the table, recognize each other and agree on all the fundamental issues of the conflict.
written. the worrying situation in the middle east continues to be the subject of our discussions, with the increase in tension and violence in the region and the increase in the number of terrorist attacks. i congratulate all the negotiators who constructively articulated the compromise text of the joint resolution of the political groups on which the ep voted today, which i co-signed. the key is a principled political message that meets israel's security and palestine's aspirations for its statehood. in line with the views of the european people's party, i am in favour of the concept of two states based on the 1967 borders with jerusalem as their capital, living side by side in peace and security. the european parliament has also called for the eu to take action to ensure that the palestinian people are not left behind. the only way to achieve this idea is to have an agreement between the parties to the conflict, first of all israel and palestine, who must decide to coexist and to have a long-term agreement. the resolution's key message is that hamas should follow fatah's position (i.e. the 1993 plo commitment) on recognizing the state of israel. the eu's main objective must be to find a solution to the conflict that contributes to the security of israel and ensures an independent, democratic and viable palestine and contributes to peace in the middle east region.
written. i supported the recognition of palestine because i sincerely hope and expect that the international recognition of palestine by the european union will finally launch a successful peace process. i also hope that it will encourage all actors, including civil society organisations in israel, to launch autonomous bilateral negotiations aimed at a peaceful resolution of the conflict. all the peoples of the middle east have been present for thousands of years and lived in peace until external influences prevented peace and coexistence. past peace initiatives have failed to produce lasting peace because they have not had equal participants in the table talks. the eu has invested heavily in building infrastructure in palestine to promote negotiated efforts to achieve a lasting peace and to weaken the influence of terrorist groups by normalizing civilian life. unfortunately, israeli attacks are often directed at systematically destroying built infrastructure, thus undermining the efforts of the european union. the palestinian side has an obligation to prevent militant groups from acting against israel, and both sides are obliged to respect international humanitarian and human rights. i believe that we should leave it to the people who live there to decide their own destiny, without 'benevolent' intermediaries, but with the help of the international community led by the eu, in order to establish as soon as possible a normal and quality life in lasting peace.
written. today i voted in favour of a resolution on the recognition of palestinian citizenship and a two-state solution, which must go hand in hand with the development of peace negotiations. in this vote, the european parliament clearly rejected unconditional recognition separate from the peace negotiations. i welcome the resolution which rejects all forms of terrorism and violence on all sides and warns of the potential religious dimensions of the conflict. the only sustainable solution to the israeli-palestinian conflict will be one that is achieved through nonviolent methods. the text insists on the need to continue peace negotiations, the final right to recognise palestine as a state can only be achieved through negotiations between the parties within the framework of a comprehensive peace process that resolves the disputed items. so i voted for the resolution, but it's clear that true recognition will only come after the two sides in the dialogue agree.
the european steel industry today employs 350 000 workers and provides indirect employment for millions more. that's a big number, but before the crisis, it was way higher. official figures say that the crisis has led to the dismissal of 65,000 workers in the last few years. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the union industry has benefited from the exemption from the anti-dumping duty imposed by regulation (eu) no 1225/2013 on imports of certain flat-rolled products of iron or non-alloy steel originating in the prc. the commission therefore concluded that the union industry was not able to benefit from the measures in force. at the same time, competition from countries such as china is investing in new plants and increasing steel production by using lower energy prices and cheaper labour. in the long term, this will further reduce the production share of european steel mills in world production and worsen the eu's trade balance. the european steel industry urgently needs help in the form of concrete measures and strategies. this resolution is a step in the right direction, but it is up to the commission to come forward with proposals that have both executive and legislative powers as soon as possible.
written. i voted no because alde had its own better resolution which had a more direct impact on better protection of the steel industry. the resolution adopted does not include the proposals of our group and does not include the proposals i made in the general debate. the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. the best example of this is the shipbuilding industry which in europe has been virtually decimated by bad policy. the disappearance of shipbuilding in many european countries has also led to the disappearance of a steel market which was very large and physically close to the steel production itself. i was in favour of a review of the shipbuilding policy and as it was not mentioned anywhere i did not accept the proposed text.
over the last few months, the commission has received several questions concerning the state of the industrial zone in terni, italy, in particular as regards the acciai speciali terni steelworks. the latest industrial restructuring plan submitted by thyssenkrupp to the italian government envisages the laying-off of 550 employees and the closure of one of the mills. the measure is described as necessary for the survival of the company, but it should take into account the fact that personnel costs represent only 4% of turnover, with the main costs being energy, raw materials and transport. i supported this report because it should be borne in mind that the steel industry is one of the strategic sectors of the industrial policy of the european union. i call on the commission to take action to reduce the high energy costs that are damaging to the whole sector. the commission also found that the steel industry in the prc is not able to compete with the union industry. accordingly, workers would be protected against job losses. parliament recently adopted an action plan for the european steel industry, but we are now calling for concrete measures to protect jobs and competitiveness.
written. i support the adoption of a european parliament resolution that sends a message about the importance of this sector for the eu as a whole. the european commission is also being asked to take steps that could help to revitalise this sector in the international market race. i believe that the ep is obliged to express its support for the steel sector in the eu, above all because this industry employs 350 000 people and creates several million jobs in other related activities. the commission therefore considers that the measures in force are in line with the principles of the union steel market and the union interest. the reasons for the analysis of the situation in the steel industry are: the poor competitiveness of the sector at international level, the need for a strategy of adaptation, restructuring and development of the steel and processing industries across the eu, as well as the objective of increasing investment in research and innovation. the commission notes that the steel industry is facing a number of challenges in the future, including the need to adapt to the changing market conditions. finally, i would also draw attention to the recommendation in the resolution that the european globalisation adjustment fund and the european social fund should be used to mitigate the effects of non-competitiveness and to address market failures in the steel sector. i also support the involvement of the wider regional and local communities in tackling the steel sector.
written. i support the european parliament resolution on the steel sector and the protection of workers and industry to make the industry sustainable and competitive. the commission also found that the union industry had a significant market share in the union market, which was much higher than the union industry's market share. it is also very important to protect workers in the steel industry, which employs over 350 000 people in the eu. the commission therefore considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market if it is granted to the steel industry in the form of a reduction in the aid intensity.
written. i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the situation in the mediterranean and the need for a comprehensive eu approach to migration, as there is a need to work on the problems in the mediterranean where there is a high loss of life at sea. i believe that the european union and all member states should respond adequately and in a timely manner and impose strict sanctions on trafficking and smuggling of human beings into the eu. some member states host the largest number of refugees and asylum seekers, and the eu should therefore share some of the responsibility and solidarity towards them. i believe that we need to strengthen border policy while protecting the human rights of all migrants and ensuring safe and legal access to the european union's asylum system. given the importance of the mediterranean to the whole of europe, i strongly support a holistic approach to migration and the necessary common strategy.
written. on the situation in the mediterranean and the need for a comprehensive approach, all groups within parliament agreed on a compromise text that would include important issues such as sanctions for smugglers and trafficking in human beings. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's external borders policy and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's external borders policy. the report also includes sections on legal migration and resettlement, and sections on the implementation of the common european asylum system with possible restrictive procedures in case of violations of rights. i supported this report because i believe that there is a need to tackle the problem of migration and for a comprehensive approach by the european union to the current situation. i call for shared responsibility and solidarity towards the countries that receive the largest numbers of refugees and asylum seekers, either in absolute terms or in proportional terms.
written. i supported the resolution on the situation in the mediterranean and welcome the impetus it gives to the elaboration of a comprehensive european union approach to migration. alarmingly, the international organization for migration reports that more than 3,000 migrants have lost their lives in the mediterranean this year, more than double the number lost in the record year of 2011. this made 2014 the 'most disastrous year for the mediterranean' where the highest number of people died at the doorstep of the european union seeking a better life. i would like to reiterate the call of pope francis during his visit to the european parliament in november to 'not allow the mediterranean coast to become a mass cemetery' and to act decisively to prevent such human tragedies from happening again. this long-standing and complex challenge requires action, both at union and member state level, against trafficking and smuggling of human beings and criminal networks, ensuring the rapid and sustainable return of migrants in a humane and dignified manner and ensuring their right to access the european asylum system, as well as strengthening the management of the eu's external borders. i call in particular for support and solidarity with the member states which host the largest number of refugees and asylum seekers and thus face the greatest pressure.
written. i supported the resolution of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs on the situation in the mediterranean and the need for a comprehensive eu approach to migration. the european parliament's october 2013 session was marked by the lampedusa tragedy and a debate with the european commission on how to improve the reception of refugees in the eu and how to change european migration policy. countries in southeastern europe continue to be pressured by the many migrants fleeing war zones, and according to the united nations, the number of people fleeing their homelands in boats is increasing day by day. the alarming situation and the tragic scenes with at least 3072 deaths in the mediterranean sea in the first nine months of 2014 call for a determined and comprehensive approach to the european union's migration policy, which should cover a wide range of themes, a strong interaction between the internal and external dimensions of eu policies, and the cooperation of all actors within the eu institutions, the member states and third countries (transit and origin countries). i particularly welcome the introduction of strict criminal sanctions for trafficking and smuggling of human beings, and the recommendation to improve the role and functioning of frontex and operation triton. protecting borders and protecting lives through the european system of external border control is a key eu challenge.
written. i supported the resolution because i believe that the european union has a duty to protect human life and to set an example of the dignified treatment of refugees. the more than 23,000 migrants who have died or disappeared since 2000 are a tragic indication of the need to establish an effective prevention mechanism. the greatest prevention strategies need to be developed in the mediterranean, given that eight out of ten such tragic deaths occur at sea. we must act in solidarity and compassion because the value of human life cannot be defined by borders. the worrying numbers of migrants in italy, greece and malta are not just a concern for those countries, but for the european union as a whole, and a fair distribution of responsibility among member states is a step towards achieving a sustainable migration and asylum policy for the european union. for this reason, i believe that europe needs mechanisms that provide assistance to refugees, such as italy's mare nostrum operation, which has saved over 150,000 refugees in the mediterranean.
written. i support the above resolution. every year more and more people try to get to europe. the migration situation in the mediterranean is one of the most important issues at the moment for the whole of the european union. because of the inadequate treatment of immigrants, both real and normative, we are witnessing great human misfortune and irreparable loss. the problem of migration is accompanied by the problem of combating trafficking and smuggling. the union should also ensure that the union's citizens are able to access the union's internal market and to benefit from the full benefits of the internal market. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the definition of the concept of 'originating products' and the definition of the concept of 'originating products' and the definition of the concept of 'originating products' as well as the definition of the concept of 'originating products' and the definition of the concept of 'originating products'. the solution would be to impose different conditions for different member states, depending on the situation in each individual country. although the european union has developed mechanisms to address these problems such as the european asylum support office, and many agencies provide guidance and financial solidarity, there is room for improvement.
mr president, i fully support the very clear positions of the commission, the council on respect for the law, respect for international law and respect for human rights and general democratic values in general. i'm glad that it was more or less unanimous in the european parliament, there were some lonely voices that spoke differently, but there are countries, countries of the developed democratic world where it's not so self-evident that in relation to the safety of citizens and the protection of human rights, it is so clearly on the side of human rights. so it's important to highlight what mr. president obama, his administration and of course parts of the senate, or some senators who said it was a violation of american values and who prohibited torture, have done, and that is bringing european political culture closer to american political culture and that is certainly to be welcomed.
mr vice-president, i have supported the persistent work of our rapporteur, mr mamikins, on the report which precedes tomorrow's vote on the ratification of the association agreement with georgia, as well as the series of debates we have had on this subject in the committee on foreign affairs and in other committees of the european parliament. tomorrow's event is extremely important for georgia's european path. it represents the beginning of a new phase in relations with the european union, it represents a confirmation of the european orientation of the georgian people, of georgia as part of our eastern partnership policy, a policy in which two more countries have embarked on the path of accession in the last few months, and ukraine and moldova and now georgia. unfortunately, all three of these countries are in the context of frozen conflicts, conflicts of this wider or even close neighbourhood of russia, where it is trying to position its influence strongly towards the freely decided orientation of these countries to join the european union. in this context, the association agreement will not only strengthen our political relations, it will help our economic relations, but it will also help the security of georgia and the other two countries i mentioned. the commission has also taken note of the fact that the council of europe has adopted a number of recommendations on the future of the eu's external relations, including the establishment of a european union external relations office. in this regard, i advise our georgian colleagues to engage in the reform process special advisers from both the commission and the member states who would give legitimacy and additional expertise to their reforms because it is not good for georgia to be perceived as a country where the judiciary is used selectively and even for political calculations. therefore, full support to our georgian friends tomorrow, and solve systemic problems honestly and hand in hand with the member states and the commission.
mr. president, congratulations to your colleague maminkis. georgia needs the support of the european union today, not only to encourage further internal, democratic and economic development, but also to send a message that the european union supports georgia's territorial integrity in the face of external pressures and separatist projects. however, the brussels-tbilisi partnership should be binding on both sides. while georgia is facing serious reform of the judiciary and its independence from politics, the fight against corruption and a higher degree of political tolerance, the european union should continue to consolidate the eastern partnership policy at a critical time of confronting russian interests. the association agreement with georgia, following the ratification of similar agreements with ukraine and moldova, marks the space of cooperation with the democracies on the black sea coast, which unfortunately is increasingly becoming a space of confrontation, especially after the annexation of crimea and the growing doubts about the extension of new energy supply routes. and this cooperation is extremely important for the overall european project, because the black sea, caucasus region has not had the good fortune to be included in the mainstream of european integration like the baltics or the balkans.
mr president, almost 40 000 migrants, including refugees and asylum seekers, arrived in europe in 2013, and according to the international organisation for migration, more than 3 000 migrants have lost their lives in the mediterranean this year. and so, unfortunately, 2014 became the most devastating for the mediterranean, where the most people lost their lives right at the doorstep of the european union. most of the migrants who died were from africa and the middle east - drowning, starvation, and exposure to cold. the khartoum process is to be welcomed, as it aims to establish dialogue and effective cooperation between european and african countries to tackle the smuggling and trafficking of migrants, which is the cause of almost 80% of these journeys. but it is not enough to form coalitions, to set up financial funds, because in this way politicians seem to think that they can use money to wash away the guilt of not doing what they should have done in time. i would remind you that the dignity of every human being is just as important as what pope francis said three weeks ago, here in the european parliament, calling for a united response to migration, because we cannot allow the mediterranean coast to become a mass grave. the pope said that europe would be able to deal with the problems of immigration only if it was able to clearly define its cultural identity and pass adequate laws to protect the rights of european citizens and to ensure the acceptance of immigrants. so, ladies and gentlemen, we must take action against the causes, not just the effects.
mr president, is it possible that today in this house we are discussing a country that is actually our partner, and that practices slavery? the european union has a duty to help the countries of the mediterranean to develop their economic and social cohesion. in this context, i want to make it clear that i strongly support this resolution, and i want to make it very clear that i expect high commissioner mogherini to do everything possible to secure the release of mr abeid from prison in mauritania, because he has become a symbol of the struggle against a system, but above all against the inhumane conditions in which almost 20% of the population of mauritania lives. that's why i expect decisive action from mrs. mogherini.
written. i call on the government of sudan to release from prison dr. amin mekki medani, as well as other human rights activists who have been arrested for expressing their displeasure against the government of sudan. the sudanese government should start respecting the international conventions it has signed. mr. medania's health is seriously impaired, he's not being given his medication, and he's 76 years old. he is a member of the national assembly of sudan, a political party that is part of the opposition to the sudanese government. the political and social situation in sudan is very unstable, and the media is subject to censorship. the authorities use unlawful mechanisms to restrict the freedoms of all who think differently. the question of dissent, and especially the question of faith, cannot be the basis for any persecution, and this is happening in sudan especially when it comes to christians, against whom i raise my voice. the european union must force the sudanese government to release mr medani and begin to respect freedom of thought, freedom of religion and the human rights of its citizens.
written. i voted out of the resolution on the commission delegated regulation amending annex iii on the application of the scheme of generalised tariff preferences due to the failure of the country concerned to implement the necessary requirements in the area of sustainable fisheries, affecting european fishermen and consumers. in addition, it is a flagrant violation of the right to the protection of the sea and exploits marine resources and organisms in a totally unfair manner. unfortunately, it is also known that certain human rights are not respected and this is an additional motive for my opposition. moreover, such a decision is in line with the proposal adopted within alde.
written. i have endorsed the report on the amendment of annex iii to the regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the application of the scheme of generalised tariff preferences. i think the european commission should delay the inclusion of the philippines in the generalised system of preferences. the commission also found that the philippines had a significant market share in the union market. the philippines must make additional efforts to prevent trafficking in human beings and the exploitation of women and children in labour. it is also worth noting that the philippines must make great efforts to prevent illegal and unreported fishing. the commission has also received comments from the philippines on the alleged violation of the wto agreement on trade-related aspects of intellectual property rights (trips) by the philippines.
written. i supported the resolution on the commission delegated regulation on the application of the scheme of generalised tariff preferences to the philippines because i believe that the conclusion of an agreement allowing preferential importation of products originating in a country that does not do enough to stop actions that are contrary to the principles and rules we promote in the european union should be postponed. in august 2014, the european commission adopted a delegated regulation on the application of the scheme of generalised tariff preferences to the philippines. the philippines should be allowed to export certain product groups to the eu. in 2008, a council regulation was adopted defining rules with a view to establishing a community to prevent, deter and eliminate illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. on 10 june 2014, the commission adopted a decision indicating to the philippines that it considered that there was a possibility of designating the philippines as a non-cooperating country in accordance with that regulation. illegal fishing in the world's seas causes enormous damage each year. the sale of illegally caught fish makes it difficult to assess the real economic impact of illegal fishing, but experts believe that it is a serious threat to the legitimate fisheries that employ millions of people worldwide.
written. unreported fishing is common in countries that do not have strict controls over the fishing sector, which is why i supported this proposal. as the philippines is a third world country, it is unacceptable for the union to encourage illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing in any way. these practices are not in line with the council regulation and the actions threaten the sustainability of the fishery. the philippines shall respond to the council's formal decision as soon as possible and implement its position and the european union guidelines.
written. i voted in favour of the resolution on the non-objection to the commission delegated regulation supplementing directive 2014/59/eu with regard to ex ante contributions to financial recovery arrangements in order to allow the delegated regulation to enter into force. in particular, a delegated regulation can only enter into force if parliament does not object to the commission's delegated regulations and i have therefore accepted this resolution. the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the proposed measures on the financial situation of the beneficiary, in particular on the financial situation of the beneficiary, the financial situation of the beneficiary and the financial situation of the beneficiary. the reason for the vote on ex ante contributions to the single rescue fund was also the fact that all this was achieved after informal involvement of parliament. the additional motive is certainly the position of the alde group, which, like the large majority in the european parliament, supports the resolution in question.
written. i support this resolution as it encourages an effective way of regulating financial arrangements for resolution, namely, effective collection of contributions by credit institutions and investment companies. the effective implementation of the directive allows for the collection of contributions while taking into account the risk of the institutions themselves. the commission will also be able to calculate and collect contributions in a timely manner. to that end, it is necessary to adopt this resolution as soon as possible.
written. i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the association agreement between the european union and the european atomic energy community and their member states, of the one part, and georgia, of the other part, as that agreement represents a process of social, economic and legal approximation of georgia to european principles and standards. i also support the creation of a free trade area between the european union and georgia that will contribute to the economic growth of that country. georgia is hereby invited to pursue the necessary democratic and comprehensive reforms which must be in line with the treaty on european union. however, i believe that further reforms and efforts are needed to stabilise the area in question and to tackle discrimination, human rights violations, corruption and other phenomena that are still present in georgia.
the association agreement between the european union and georgia, including a free trade agreement, was initiated during the eastern partnership in vilnius on 29 november 2013 and signed on 27 july 2014. the parliament of the republic of georgia ratified the agreement one month later and approved the agreement to enter into force on 1 september 2014. the association agreement and deep and comprehensive free trade area (aa/dcfta) is a new generation of agreements signed by the european union with third countries. both agreements aim to significantly deepen georgia's political cooperation and economic integration with the european union. the agreement contains binding rules for both parties. particular attention will be paid to the implementation of activities across different areas. the agreement provides for reforms in the following areas: public administration, justice and law enforcement, economic recovery and growth, consumer protection, energy, transport, environmental protection, industrial development, social development and protection, education, youth and culture. i supported this report because i believe that the agreement will improve cooperation in the field of strengthening the rule of law, combating corruption, ensuring respect for fundamental human rights and freedoms and strengthening democratic institutions.
written. i support the report by mr miminkis on the conclusion of the association agreement with georgia, which creates a framework for stronger political dialogue and deeper cooperation in a range of sectoral activities, as well as the harmonisation of georgian legislation with the eu acquis. in the context of the eu's eastern partnership policy, i believe that rapprochement with the union will help the security of the country and the resolution of the problems in abkhazia and south ossetia. the eu must now show much more political will towards georgia and find ways to implement georgia's difficult economic and political reforms. the commission has also been asked to provide further information on the implementation of the eu-georgia association agreement, including on the implementation of the eu-georgia association agreement, the eu-georgia association agreement and the eu-georgia association agreement.
written. i supported the association agreement with georgia because it is aimed at integration that will lead to a calm of the political situation and create the need for constructive dialogue. the european union should strengthen its solidarity with countries seeking to strengthen their independence after the soviet union. after the rose revolution, georgia made progress in strengthening relations with the european union, promoting human rights and democracy. the eastern partnership has created a strong political framework for improving political relations. the european union has decided to advocate for georgia's rights and for its accession to international organisations or alliances. visa-free travel would directly benefit the population, and this is the most ambitious free trade agreement ever concluded with a third country, excluding those in the european economic area. this agreement is seen as a significant step forward for eu-georgia relations. it is also a support to georgia's political, social and economic recovery and marks the deepening of socio-economic cooperation with the eu.
written. i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the association agreement between the european union and the european atomic energy community and their member states, of the one part, and georgia, of the other part, because the intensification and formalisation of relations with georgia contributes to peace and stability in the region and thus confirms georgia's sovereignty and territorial integrity. i support the european union's efforts to achieve national reconciliation in georgia, where the situation is still tense and where an atmosphere of freedom and democracy needs to be created. the agreement will contribute to the development of georgia and to the establishment of stronger economic ties with the eu.
written. i support this report and the strengthening of relations between the european union and georgia. it is important that georgia continues to pursue with determination judicial reforms, strengthening the rule of law and achieving a higher degree of democracy. the eu has also committed itself to the development of a comprehensive and effective system of customs cooperation, in particular with the countries of the former soviet union, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia.
written. the conclusion of the eu-georgia association agreement is important for sending a message of solidarity to the georgian people, supporting georgia's territorial integrity in the face of two frozen conflicts, and continuing political, economic and legal reforms. georgia's accession will lead to a gradual adoption of eu standards and norms, leading to stronger trade and economic relations. in parallel to emphasising the importance of the implementation of the agreement with georgia, i would also stress the importance of further reforms and achievement of results by the georgian government, especially in the field of the judiciary.
written. i support this proposal for an association agreement between the european union and georgia. the importance of the fta is evident in providing georgia with access to the largest economic bloc, trade flows and better investment conditions. the agreement also aims to reform georgia's trade policy to bring about a better and more predictable working environment, economic integration of georgia into the eu, increased contacts and mobility of people. the agreement also supports georgia's political, social and economic efforts to increase energy security and environmental protection and to deepen socio-economic cooperation with the eu.
