in one of the latest personal attacks by the romanian prime minister victor ponta, he called our colleague elmar brok, the chairman of the foreign affairs committee, an irresponsible, demagogic, fascist politician for his political proposal. in response to the rejection of the post-communist prime minister, the jury of the order of merit of the star of romania, composed of members of the socialist party, has declared me a horthyist and a fascist, a revisionist and a revisionist for expressing my political position on the autonomy of the hungarians in romania. in romania, the ghosts of the ceausescu dictatorship are returning. the infamous romanian securitate also criminalized the transylvanian hungarians and germans as fascists and horthists. it seems that the same treatment is being given to freedom of expression, a basic human right, in the country of victor ponta.
the theme is food crisis and food fraud. of course, the most obvious solution is not in the long and complicated report. what i recommend to my compatriots from this place is to take our baskets every saturday morning and not go to the garbage chains, but to the farmers' market i recommend the so-called mdf market in budapest in front of the komyadi pool and buy high-quality, healthy hungarian vegetables, fruits, meat, dairy products, bread there, in one place, directly from the producer. it's about helping the rural livelihood, the so-called economic freedom struggle, and it's about helping our own health. don't believe the lie that it's more expensive than grocery stores or chain stores. it's much cheaper! try it out. meet me at the farmers' market every saturday morning.
i was very pleased to see this report on the need to protect workers' rights with the help of labour inspectors. this would be very much needed in post-communist countries, for example, in my country, hungary. because the workers live in constant fear. that is something that my fellow members of the european union should know. they earn 250-300 euros a month in colonial-style jobs, in chain stores or in primitive assembly shops, maintained by your compatriots. these people can't even protect their own workers' rights. because they are also suffering from the foreign exchange loans issued by western banks, and they have very serious problems. and the employers, if the employees dare to complain about the intolerable conditions, they say, "please, you can go, there are 15 others for your job". it is outrageous, it is immoral, and i am asking the european union to do something about it. and i ask the hungarian state to take this report seriously, to apply the tool of labour surveillance much more broadly and much more seriously to the protection of workers' rights and human dignity.
when i read this report on the employee share of corporate revenues, it reminded me of a bookstore i was in in budapest a few weeks ago. not in a small family business, which is almost nonexistent now, because the big chains are taking over the bookstores. and i was talking to a salesman there for a while, and he said this: how is it with kristina, that our owner, the owner of this huge bookstore chain, is on the list of books about hungarian billionaires. and at the same time, we who work here and generate this profit for him, earn 80 000 forints, which is about 250 euros as graduates, college or university graduates. we would feel that it is only fair that we should share in some of this vast profit. well, it wasn't so far-fetched, but it's worth studying this report.
when i link entrepreneurship and social protection, i think first of all of family businesses, which are by their very nature socially sensitive institutions that provide a social safety net. that's why we need to support them as much as possible. what happens in family businesses? whatever the crisis, they're not going to throw you out on the street, throw out their own daughter, their own sister, etc. the entrepreneur, but at all costs they're trying to find some kind of bridge solution. which is why it's so upsetting to me when i hear rows of businessmen across the country complaining that they're being treated like criminals by their own government. they're subject to constant scrutiny, fines. there is a huge bureaucracy and they would need the state to embrace and support them especially in these times of crisis.
mr president i would like to congratulate the vilnius presidency on its proven work on the mff. at the same time, we would like to say that we still consider the budget to be underfunded, which will make it very difficult to adopt annual budgets in the coming years, and may even compromise the objectives. i would like to draw particular attention to the sensitivity of the amount for small businesses and young people. i think we're gonna have a lot of trouble with that. in the case of the vilnius summit, i think the glass is half full. i would like to highlight the case of georgia, where the warning birds said at the time that unless mr sakasvili's party won, the process of european integration would stop. i think it's safe to say that the georgian dream's commitment to europe is unquestionable. and finally, madam president, i want to thank you personally for being a conservative politician who is radiating pro-europeanism from the region. and i only dare to hope with all my heart that one day your message will be understood in hungary, by the hungarian government.
i'm sorry to hear that. my dear friends! lithuania's achievements are a source of great pride for all new member states. in this house, a german member of parliament said that he was surprised that lithuania had done so well in its presidency. it shows that we don't know each other and we're full of prejudice. for me, knowing lithuanian history, culture, čiurlionis' paintings, knowing the intelligence of mrs. gribauskaite, it was not surprising, it was legal. it is regrettable that the lithuanian presidency is coming to an end, because the union is experiencing a very sad moment, when british prime minister david cameron and bavarian prime minister seehofer are launching a brutal attack on immigrant workers. the romanians, the bulgarians, and especially the poles, are contributing to the division of europe, and it is now urgent to act against this. it's against the populist contagion, the populist demagogy, which is bad for britain, bad for germany, bad for the whole of the european union. congratulations again, i have to say, ačiū to the lithuanian presidency!
in writing. i would like to extend my warmest congratulations to the lithuanian presidency. the presidency has done an excellent job in difficult circumstances, because let us not forget that while europe's economy seems to be stabilising, while sovereign debt is increasing but showing a downward trend, we are still in the midst of the economic and financial crisis and unemployment is skyrocketing. the presidency has closed some 137 legislative dossiers and has successfully taken a leading role in key processes such as the banking union or the insurance solvency regimes. in the case of banking union, it should be noted that lithuanians managed to use clever compromises to ensure that the banking union entered two further very important phases: an agreement was reached on the insurance guarantee schemes and on the common banking resolution authority and fund, which also gave the ep the power to formulate its supportive and constructive position as soon as possible. unfortunately, circumstances do not always turn things around in the right direction, see the forced freezing of all relations with ukraine, but if we want to remain objective, we must say that the lithuanian presidency has been a true european and has exceeded the expectations of many of us!
in the air. with the active participation of the lithuanian presidency, the next budget of the european union was agreed. the former president's achievement was that the other legislative files relating to his budget - including the regulation on the european social fund - were closed. the lithuanian presidency's experts, with their consensus-building, creative and respectful attitude to parliament's opinion, made a major contribution to the successful conclusion of the negotiations on the fund. the lithuanian presidency, aware of the catastrophic labour market and social impact of the crisis, supported parliament in its efforts to ensure that the esf really helps the most deprived and vulnerable groups and that member states are obliged to devote 20% of the fund to eradicating poverty and exclusion. lithuania is also to be congratulated on the successful conclusion of negotiations under its presidency on the support programmes available to the member states in the field of judicial cooperation and the exercise of the rights of european citizenship. it is important that the council adopted a resolution last semester calling for more comprehensive protection for victims of hate crime than is currently the case. i regret, however, that in a number of areas the council is trying to curtail or circumvent parliament's right to co-decide, or to put it in a position of readiness, for example when it comes to decisions on the future of the european police college.
consumers are faced with new challenges every year and with a wealth of information that is difficult to manage. in this context, this flow of information raises the need and necessity for adequate remedies and an adequate and high level of consumer protection at european level. i therefore fully support the report by my colleague, mr rochefort, on his consumer protection programme for 2014-2020, which provides for a sustainable high level of consumer protection and support for consumer protection organisations. i am also pleased that we have managed to put this into a strategic direction that is in line with the eu 2020 strategic direction. i think it's important to ask questions that show concrete action. so for example, the part about traceability of products, about giving information, is very important. and as rapporteur for the internal market and consumer protection budget lines, i think it is important to strengthen the odr, the online dispute resolution platform. we can see that online commerce is becoming more and more widespread, which is why we need online dispute resolution. i think it's great that there are more and more online comparison sites that not only compare prices, but also compare quality. i think that overall, mr president, this programme will provide an opportunity to increase competition and to inform consumers, while at the same time providing greater protection.
in writing. − the concept of smart specialisation means that a region must set priorities in r & d and innovation according to its own strengths and comparative advantages. regions differ, but smart specialisation offers opportunities for all regions. in the absence of a well-designed strategy, the desired results in eu r&d&i have not always been achieved. it is important not to allocate the available resources narrowly among all areas, but to prioritise them according to the specificities of the regions, since concentrated support increases the efficiency of results. the strategies should take into account the involvement of the private sector in financing and investment, facilitate the combined use of the structural funds and horizon 2020, and promote cooperation between universities, other higher education institutions, industry and government.
in writing. - a fancy marketing title to hide the point. that they want to promote the red tape of the belgian commission. and to move a little towards the united states of europe, and to remove the regional self-government from the space of movement. if national and local authorities do their job well, this only slows them down; if they do it badly, it means that staff must be replaced, not that administrative burdens must be added.
in writing. − the consensus procedure means that the council must seek the consent of the european parliament before taking certain decisions. since the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, the consensus procedure has been applied, for example, to agreements with significant budgetary implications for the union, to accession agreements or to the extension of rights conferred on union citizens. parliament's prominent role in the consensus procedure is ensured by its veto power. if parliament does not give its assent, the council cannot adopt the act or agreement in question. the purpose of this report is to clarify the way in which consent is given and to bring parliament's rules of procedure into line with practice.
in writing. − the amendment of the new light commercial vehicle regulation is an important step towards achieving the union's greenhouse gas emission reduction target. while emissions in other sectors are mostly declining, road transport is one of the sectors where emissions are increasing rapidly. i supported the first reading agreement because, in addition to encouraging manufacturers to meet the above climate targets, it takes into account that car manufacturing is one of the most competitive industries in the eu and could be severely affected by inadequate regulation. last but not least, it is important to mention that although the commercial vehicle production in hungary is not significant, the compromise now reached is of great importance because of the domestic but foreign-owned car and component manufacturing.
in writing. - it is pointless to favour co2 emissions in this way, rather the emission of microparticles should be reduced urgently, because it is a million times more dangerous than co2. one reason for the rapid spread of both allergic and cancerous diseases is the proliferation of ever more fuel-efficient and cleaner engines, which also produce microscopic particles of dirt. these cancer-causing particles can be found in every living organism, but when they are exposed to age, they can cause allergies, such as to the otherwise harmless dandelion, formerly known as ambrosia, a spice and medicinal plant! if the goal is to reduce co2 emissions from transport, then the best way to do that is to use a gas car or an electric car. if reducing co2 in the atmosphere is the goal, then forests must be planted and tropical rainforests protected. if we want to make it costly for people and smes, then accepting this report is the way to go.
in writing. − the european parliament voted today by a large majority on a proposal to create a financial framework for the union's consumer protection policy for the period 2014-2020. i consider it of paramount importance to strengthen consumer protection, with particular attention to developments in the digital market, as well as data protection and unfair commercial practices. the effective enforcement of consumer rights requires an accessible and effective system of redress. it is also important that, in the post-crisis market environment, where consumers have to make decisions on complex issues, they have reliable and verifiable information and a platform for alternative dispute resolution in case of possible disputes. the draft law was adopted with the abovementioned content, which i supported with my vote.
in writing. - a bit of a "which finger to bite" situation. the report has an important purpose, which is to protect consumers' rights. on the other hand, by facilitating online trade, it is more likely to disadvantage peripheral countries, as citizens of core countries are less likely to shop in online shops of new entrants and vice versa. the latter has already been achieved and consumers must be protected.
in writing. − i am voting in favour of the adoption of the consumer programme for 2014-2020, which aims to maintain a high level of consumer protection in the european union. the programme puts the self-conscious consumer at the heart of the single market and aims to create tools to help consumers better exercise their rights. the report recommends, taking into account the experience of recent years, that financial support for european consumer organisations be maintained and that alternative mechanisms for the settlement of consumer disputes be adequately funded.
in writing. − this regulation extends the european parliament's control powers over imports of quality agricultural products from outside the eu. twenty years ago, our domestic agriculture was still able to produce high-quality goods in significant quantities for export markets. now the industry has been destroyed by the regime change, the globus, the meat factories, the canneries, the sugar factories. remember, this is all thanks to the market-buying actions of the old eu member states, but the main culprits have to be found at home. if we boost our agriculture, we can more easily control imports under this regulation.
in writing. - why should the eu not be able to import olive oil and berries from turkey? he's no competition to us in these things. if it is in other areas, then we'll have the right to complain to the commission. of course, the whole regulation may become pointless, because the turks will join the russian-kazakh etc. customs union. they're waking up.
in writing. - once upon a time, we had a farm. there were even state farms and research institutes. we even had a sub-culture. a domestic research institute that has developed domestic apples from domestic vermouth. not as world-class as the italian, but not as bad. we exported under the gst. this proposal harmonises the general rules for the definition, designation and presentation of such aromatised wine products (e.g. vermouth). so it became a rule, we just needed a hungarian government that would flourish our economy and we could manufacture and export again.
in writing. - there's another huge scam and scam unfolding with this co2 capture and storage. the real solution is to shut down the coal-fired power plant. instead, we need thorium-based nuclear power plants that do not generate long-lived hazardous waste and that can supply the earth for at least 200 years at a cost equivalent to half of today's electricity. in parallel, we need to protect our tropical rainforests, replant our deforested forests, grow food on organic farms. all plants love high co2 levels and it will improve the crop. and, by the way, coal plants also emit substances far more dangerous than co2, such as tremendous amounts of sulfur, tons of heavy metals and millions of times more radioactive material than brain-dead nuclear plants, which is why i voted for the anti-coal amendments. and, by the way, there are a lot of dangers in leaking co2 into the deep layers. i voted no on this public-risk money-laundering scheme.
in writing. − as chief whip, my duty is to ensure the voting discipline of the house of commons, which is reflected in the fact that i am the one who sets the position for the whole house of commons during the votes in plenary. the aim of the epp is to create a european unity with decisive political weight, based on common european values, traditions and culture. however, the hungarian people's party group is actively working to promote the interests of our country, and we represent our own national interests in the european parliament, so sometimes the position of the hungarian fidesz/kdnp delegation differs from the people's party position. in order to avoid any contradiction with my duties as vice-president, i shall not take part in the vote directly in cases where the group votes differently from the hungarian members in the roll-call votes. i do not press the ballot button, but i do raise my hand to indicate to the pp group the voting position that we had previously agreed on.
in writing. − i supported the report because ehealth can be a tool in the hands of member states to respond to the current challenges facing eu health systems. although access to quality healthcare is a recognised fundamental right of all eu citizens, practical implementation faces numerous difficulties, such as the mobility of patients and healthcare professionals or the shrinking health budget. ehealth can improve access to health services for people living in remote and sparsely populated areas, and can contribute to reducing waiting times and ensuring effective, quality healthcare. however, in order to achieve these objectives, the creation of trust among citizens and health professionals is a priority, the essential condition for which is to guarantee legal certainty in the application of ehealth.
in writing. - we've been to europe again! the hungarian doctors were driven out with the help of the governments that have been in power. so there's every chance that in a complicated case, a hungarian doctor working in england can e-consult the hungarian patient on his home treatment. the report is only now addressing the possibilities and applicability of ehealth. hungary has done better again! couldn't we pay our own doctors and the english start training their own doctors instead of seducing others? the report is even better because it focuses on care in remote areas
my fellow members of parliament! i have an important announcement to make on the food crisis and food crisis prevention. and that is that we, hungarians - and please pass this on to your voters - do not sell our land to foreigners. we hungarians are attached to our land and, with a good sense of the peasant, we consider a citizen of the european union and a company registered in the european union or in an associated state to be foreign. so if an austrian, german, thyrian, israeli or any other citizen or company sets its eyes on the arable land belonging to the hungarian small farmer, the hungarian man living there, then count on the fact that we will expel him from the stolen, illegally acquired, immorally occupied land with a kuros momentum!
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report because i consider it particularly important that the european parliament address the problem of food labelling and other fraud in the food chain, which is increasingly a problem in europe. recent scandals have seriously shaken consumer confidence, despite the fact that food itself is safe thanks to strict quality requirements. in order to restore consumer confidence, a european solution to the problem should be found as soon as possible and cooperation between member states' authorities should be strengthened, given the extremely complex and cross-border nature of the food chain today.
in writing. - the real world is beyond the legislator's imagination. and the average customer. and it's not the chinese egg that's the biggest trick. today, the food industry has been reduced to a chemical industry. our art world is promoted through media programs. former feed and industrial waste are now reformed, dry bread is now glossy jam, wallpaper glue is now cut up and i could list them. and that's not a category of fraud, those are approved technologies and materials. the report is progress. but very backwards. those who can, should take a good look at what they buy. "you are what you eat".
the situation of workers who are hired by labour-lenders as slaves or as some kind of object to companies is criminal in hungary and i think in other so-called second-class member states. although i would rather call the criminal side, the ones who created this, or those who engage in what i believe is criminal behavior, than those who sign two papers with unfortunate, vulnerable people. one is an employment contract, and the other is a contract of employment, which is a pre-signed termination by mutual agreement. such criminal behavior is the application of the double-presence arc. if there is no , as there is usually no , eight-hour rest period between two shifts, or if the working time is otherwise unlawful, the attendance record b is taken instead of a. these criminal behaviours must be stopped, punished and the perpetrators not only fined by means of labour inspection, but also sent to prison if necessary, and an independent hungarian economy created where people can work in decent conditions.
in writing. − unfortunately, labour law rules and the interests of workers are often not taken into account. undeclared work is estimated to account for approximately 20% of the eu27's gdp, and in some countries for more than 30%. black workers face a multitude of financial and social difficulties. uncertain employment, income and social security conditions are further exacerbated by a lack of respect, fair treatment. the most vulnerable social groups are immigrants, young people, women, and low-skilled workers. in this context, it is essential to ensure the protection of workers at risk and to engage employers in ensuring good working conditions.
unfortunately, there are some member states of the european union that are more like a latin american country in the old sense, or a third world country, than a european civic democracy. unfortunately, my country, hungary, is like that. because there's a very thin layer of billionaires, very rich, who have become rich mostly from the privatization of national assets. and on the other side, there's a huge layer, a layer of workers who produce the profits for these savage capitalists, who are savage capitalists, who are transformed from communists. and this huge layer of workers is poorly paid, disenfranchised, they have no workers' rights. this is an intolerable and intolerable situation. perhaps the idea expressed in the report will help to alleviate this. it is understood that employees could share in the profits of companies. i think that is a good direction, and that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − the financial participation of employees in the revenues of companies is an area that depends to a large extent on the legal frameworks and conditions of the member states. the fiscal policies and taxation of the member states are key in this area, so the principle of subsidiarity needs to be fully respected. the union may establish framework conditions and provide guidance through the exchange of best practices. involving employees in corporate governance can help them think longer term about their employers. opportunities for innovative financing may arise as employees become interested in investing in the company they are employed by. nevertheless, the level of employee involvement is relatively low, especially when compared to the us level. guidelines are therefore particularly useful in this area.
in writing. − the european parliament's committee on social affairs and employment has produced an own-initiative report on the european social model, focusing on its key elements of social inclusion, social justice and income protection, and the right to a high standard of education and health care. the report was supported by a majority of the committee members and was adopted by a large majority in the plenary vote.
in writing. − social protection is at the heart of the european social model, and one of its main functions is to promote social inclusion and social justice. member states must ensure responsible long-term financing of social security systems in order to enable social and economic goals to be reconciled and to help sustain and develop the economy. member states must also provide a guarantee of social security for the most vulnerable social groups, such as the unemployed, the disabled, single-parent families, large families with four or more children, the young, pensioners and young families, and they must ensure that social services are accessible to vulnerable social groups and people with long-term care needs, particularly in rural areas and disadvantaged regions. practical steps must be taken to combat poverty and social exclusion by providing an appropriate minimum income and a social security system with a particular focus on marginalised communities and those at risk of poverty. specific standards and an implementation framework should be defined in accordance with national practices. furthermore, member states and the commission must act to combat all forms of discrimination in the labour market, including that against women, and must take measures to prevent the dismissal of employees during pregnancy or motherhood.
in writing. − national, local and regional budgets are under increasing pressure in the current economic situation. as a result, cohesion policy funding is becoming increasingly important. the available resources should be used as efficiently as possible, taking care to allocate scarce resources to objectives that represent real added value. one of the cornerstones of cohesion policy post-2014 is to focus on growth and competitiveness, and to concentrate investments in this direction. it is therefore essential that member states and regions take the necessary steps to ensure that partnership agreements and operational programmes are drawn up in a timely and efficient manner. it is essential that projects start as early as 2014 and thus generate growth in the regions as soon as possible. to this end, the experience gained in the previous programming period should be used and, by identifying errors and best practices, member states and their regions should prepare for the 2014-2020 period.
in writing. − various approaches are used by the member states in preparing to implement the future cohesion policy. it is vital, however, that member states and regions take the necessary steps to prepare the partnership agreements and operational programmes in a timely and efficient way, so as to be ready to implement the funding as quickly as possible once the agreement on the common provisions regulation has been reached. i hope that european structural and investment funding can be allocated to projects as soon as possible, from the very start of 2014. it is vitally important that projects can begin at the earliest possible date in 2014 so that the use of european funding can be maximised in order to stimulate growth, and consequently social cohesion and inclusion, in the regions most in need.
in writing. - recycling and reuse of plastic waste. it's been 20 years since the industry was regulated, and it was time to update before we were drowned in this blessing of consumer society. maybe we shouldn't have waited for a country of plastic waste islands to form in the seas. the commission had problems with the parameters of bananas, but it lacked capacity for many of these minor issues. not for long, actually. the material is acceptable.
in writing. - let's call it "space brand" in english. it sounds better. it would have been better to have done so much sooner, but it is still welcome that the eu is seeking to protect local economies from the negative effects of the global market. the country is the lifeblood of every nation. rural development is the key to rural sustainability. the introduction of the spatial brand name and logo will help to achieve this. and quality control, too.
the committee on industry, research and energy has adopted an opinion on the proposal for a council regulation (ec) amending regulation (ec) no 1225/2009 on the common organisation of the market in milk and milk products. - mr president, the officer. my fellow members of parliament! the revision of the public procurement directive will have a positive impact on economic operators and will increase the transparency and efficiency of public procurement. the review is a step forward for smes, as contract segmentation will facilitate their access to public procurement markets. electronic submission of tenders leads to significant cost savings, shorter turnaround times and fewer errors. it is also a step forward for contracting authorities, since the evaluation must take into account not only the price but also the costs incurred during the life cycle of the product. this has significant economic benefits in the long run. finally, it is a step forward for the economy as a whole, as the expansion of the range of procedures and the development of a public procurement culture contribute to the dynamisation of the economy.
first of all, i would like to congratulate the rapporteurs, because they have done their work, although long, very thoroughly and very effectively. when these proposals were presented in 2011, i myself thought that they were not enough and that fundamental changes were needed. however, i believe that the excellent work of the committee has contributed greatly to the completeness of these reports. on the first point, mr tarabella's report, i would like to say that i myself believe that legal certainty is a very important starting point for public procurement. however, the legislation itself and the frequency of national transpositions have created and shaped a very complex and very complex system. it is very important that this complexity has also made public procurement very expensive. long term, which was at the expense of quality. i think that this is something that needs to be changed, and it should have been changed. this report is a step in the right direction in this respect. i myself welcome the opportunity for smes, the increased opportunity in public procurement. i think it is very appropriate that the guarantees, the safeguards which i found excessive in relation to smes, should be reduced and that a process of simplification should be set in motion. i think that the report by my colleague, mr juvin, is very important in terms of the concession and the work of the ep has been very, very decisive in this respect. this definition was necessary to define it, as it can increase market stability and competition and will also trigger economic growth. these are the messages of this report, which is why i will support these reports.
my fellow members of parliament! i recently saw a very apt caricature of a typical politician in a suit and tie standing next to a legislative building. he went up to her in a cartoon of a stereotypical big-time financier or banker with a big bag of money and a wish list. you hand it to the politician, who thanked him nicely, went into the building, and from that point on, he and his party made the decisions that the client wanted. it's kind of describing, it's drawing a picture of political life today. but the whole picture is also about public procurement, which is essentially about the partners sharing public money with each other. economic power and political power are thus fused together in a perfectly fitting way. european citizens have had enough of this. when we talk about public procurement, we should talk about this, because that's the point.
the committee on employment and social affairs has adopted an opinion. - madam president, i have to go. the economic importance of public procurement markets is enormous. as a percentage of annual gdp, it represents 16% in the union, 11% in the us economy, 18% in the japanese economy, but is similarly high for emerging countries. however, the openness of those markets is highly variable and it is therefore desirable that the union has the means to encourage trading partners to open their own public procurement markets to a similar level to that of the union. as the people's party shadow rapporteur on the employment committee, i believe it is important that the aspects of socially sustainable public procurement are taken into account at all stages of the public procurement process. it is essential to ensure consistent compliance with national and union labour law standards.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen of the house. the european commission's proposal aims to facilitate access to third country public procurement markets for goods produced in eu member states and for services and suppliers provided by companies operating in eu countries. the commission is right to restrict access to the eu market to countries which do not offer us reciprocity in this area. the markets of countries wishing to participate in the supply of the union's public procurement market should be opened. i am convinced that the commission's proposals are not protectionist measures, since they offer cooperation in opening up and accessing markets on the basis of reciprocity. i hope that, with the support of parliament, those member states which do not currently support the introduction of this regulation will also change their position.
on behalf of the s&d group. my colleagues! unfortunately, neither the european court of justice's decision nor the european commission's proposal is a solution for european beekeepers. the solution is contained in the amendment proposal of the environment committee, which would exempt honey as a natural product from the obligation to indicate the ingredients. however, the question of whether or not to label pollen from genetically modified plants is a major concern for european beekeepers and consumers. this is a very important need for all consumers, as consumers have a fundamental right to know. this is also in the interest of the vast majority of european beekeepers. obviously there are states where there are genetically modified crops. the situation for bee-keeping organisms is more complicated there, but we have to indicate on the label at european level whether the pollen, the pollen powder, comes from genetically modified plants or not. the commission proposal is not a solution at all, because mrs girling has already said that, on the basis of the commission proposal, no honey will be labelled as containing genetically modified pollen. i therefore urge the european commission, on behalf of the socialist group, not to sweep the problem under the carpet. the current proposal is not a suitable solution. it is in the interest of hungary and other central european beekeepers to strengthen their position and show that their product does not contain genetically modified pollen. this would strengthen europe's position against competitors from latin america, china and canada. please support the environmental committee's proposition 10 in tomorrow's vote, which is a solution to this problem.
my fellow members of the house of representatives! we are discussing a very important issue for european honey producers today. the european commission refers in its proposal to the fact that pollen is a natural constituent of honey, not a component. at first sight, there is not much difference between the two concepts, but if we look deeper, we see that there is a huge difference, because if we accept the position of the european commission, then there is practically no need to indicate the presence of genetically modified flowers in honey. i think we have to take into account the interests of european consumers. we need to provide them with access to information, not least because in many european countries it is the express aim of governments - and there is a country like hungary, which has enshrined in its constitution that people should have access to gm-free food. so i think that if we take these principles into account, there can be no question that we should consider pollen as an ingredient, and we should indeed list the pollen content of genetically modified plants on it if its quantity is set at nine tenths of a percent of the pollen content. i do not think that the members of the european parliament should have the interests of european honey importers in mind. we should rather take into account the needs and expectations of european honey producers. i think we have all spoken to beekeepers in the past, i have spoken to the hungarian beekeepers, for example, but i am also aware of the position of the european beekeepers' association, which clearly states that it is a clear competitive disadvantage for them not to have to indicate the gmo content of their honey. so i think we should accept the amendments proposed by the committee on the environment. i myself have tabled a similar amendment which makes it compulsory to indicate the gmo content without imposing heavy costs on honey producers.
consumer confidence is important, but it also requires that the bottle of honey be labeled with the contents. i got a little bottle of honey this morning from some lobbyist, and it was written in very small letters, microscopic letters, that it was a mixture of eu and non-eu honey. and that's what you have to put on a bottle under european rules, even if that bottle contains 1% eu honey and 99% imported honey. and they still say it's a mixture of eu and non-eu honey. i have suggested many times that the percentage of eu honey and the percentage of non-eu honey should be indicated precisely, so that the consumer knows how much eu and how much non-eu honey is in the bottle. beekeeping is important for hungary, and it's not by chance that we have the highest density of bees, and this is thanks to the diligence of beekeepers, and the fact that hungary has the largest amount of acacia trees. the hive is an excellent apiary. yet there are those who pursue the akak. they won't let you plant acacia trees. they are not allowing the replanting of acacia forests, and a commission proposal recently even wants to ban the planting of acacia for energy purposes, for energy forest purposes, although the acacia is not only important for the bees, but also brings income to farmers. it can be produced profitably in places where other trees do not grow, and is also important for renewable energy production. the hungarian beekeepers are demanding that you install a hive. he who respects the beekeepers, loves the honey, should not chase the hive.
in writing. the crisis in the european union has also affected the knowledge sector. we need to contain the spread. europe's industry, which used to account for 20% of gdp, has now fallen to 15%. industrial production is now 10% below pre-crisis levels, with 3 million jobs lost in the industrial sector. the deterioration of the industry is a threat to the union's competitiveness. the union needs an industrial policy approach that integrates competitiveness, sustainability and fair work. currently, 34 million people in the european union are employed in industry. the union needs a unified strategy to address the crisis, in which the development of industry/knowledge industries can play a key role. as a first step, the communication of industrial policy to young people needs to be made more effective. many recent graduates leave hungary in the hope of a better life, but they must be kept in their homeland. this can be achieved by developing knowledge-based industries such as medicine, energy, computer technology. keeping young people at home would stop the slide into the middle class, but it would also create economic recovery and real wages. the main priority would be to preserve strong production sectors and know-how. the change would be felt within six to eight years. in recent years, hungary has been building with eu funds. the development of the knowledge industry should be given high priority. it would be a real sacrifice and it would really bring the desired result.
madam president, i welcome the fact that the greek presidency has given priority to fostering economic growth in order to promote social cohesion and political stability, with special regard to striking a balance between fiscal consolidation and growth-enhancing policies. being a hungarian mep and representing the hungarian ppe group here, it will be a very interesting period for us to share our experiences with you, because we have been coming up with some good policies. it was also one of our greatest challenges – and it is the same for you at european level – to find a way to grow out of the economic recession and simultaneously maintain and develop our social achievements. we know that the most vulnerable are hit the hardest, so we know that racism and xenophobia are growing because of this further weakening of the protection of the most vulnerable. the decision that the council made on 9 december thus represents a considerable step forward in this matter by adopting its recommendations on effective roma integration measures in the member states. this is a really serious expectation of us on the part of parliament. we hope that the greek presidency will further promote the real inclusion of the eu’s largest minority. to this end, it is very important that the greek presidency is committed to moving forward the implementation of the eu 2020, the compact for growth and jobs and the european semester. i would also like to welcome the presidency’s focus on enlargement for the roma population of the western balkans. the instrument for pre-accession may be an effective tool for underpinning national initiatives and we should seek ways to influence policy-making, also through the stabilisation and association process, which has not been used to the extent that it should be.
, in writing. the greek presidency of the eu will focus on fisheries and the integrated maritime policy. it is necessary to reiterate that freshwater fisheries and in particular aquaculture are significantly different from marine fisheries and marine aquaculture. while the latter carries serious environmental and conservation risks, such as the release of farmed fish species and the harmful discharge of organic matter into the sea, freshwater fisheries in closed systems or in brackish ponds pose no threat to the environment and even increase biodiversity. the lagoons provide habitat for numerous protected bird and animal species. in the debate on the new common fisheries policy, i have therefore consistently called for a legal separation between marine and freshwater aquaculture. unfortunately, the new regulations regulate these two different areas in a uniform way. therefore, freshwater aquaculture will be subject to a number of unjustified restrictions which take into account only the characteristics of marine aquaculture. i ask the greek presidency to find a solution to the scientifically based legal definition of marine and freshwater aquaculture.
in writing. – mr prime minister, i warmly welcome the programme of the greek presidency and the emphasis put on growth, employment, social cohesion and increased democratic accountability of the european union. it is crucial in order to re-orientate europe and restore the confidence of our citizens. i am particularly pleased with the ambitious goals set regarding gender equality and the fact that the greek presidency recognises equality between women and men not only as a fundamental value but also as a key driver for growth and social equality. therefore, the focus on ‘women in the economy’ and cooperation with the european institute for gender equality are, in my opinion, crucial, especially in view of this year’s midterm review of the 2020 strategy. we need more accurate indicators and a more ambitious overall strategy with more efficient gender mainstreaming. i also hope that the planned high-level conference on violence against women will be followed by concrete action. finally i look forward to collaborating with you on the regulation on the statute and funding of european political parties and foundations in order to reach a positive outcome by the end of this legislative term.
, in writing. - mr prime minister. the citizens of hungary recognize the spectacular achievements of the greek government in crisis management. we are not unfamiliar with the situation: in 2009, hungary, like greece, was in a very serious financial situation and the troika's bailout was needed to avoid a state bankruptcy. in both countries, the irresponsible economic policies of the previous socialist governments brought about bankruptcy, and the people's governments were left with the thankless task of putting the economy in order. the fidesz government, which took office in 2010, was surprised to find that, unlike several euro area countries, it had not received any concessions or advances to achieve the deficit target, and was therefore forced to introduce innovative measures. the risks and the resistance were great, but the hard work has paid off: the budget deficit is below 3%, the number of people employed is at a record high, over 4 million, unemployment is falling and new productive investments are announced almost every week. the hungarian economy grew well above the eu average in 2013 and we have good prospects for this year as well. the success of the hungarian model demonstrates that crisis management is not possible by orthodox methods alone. reducing the deficit and debt is achieved not only by cutting back on salaries, pensions and other social transfers but also by involving economic operators in public burdens. i wish you every success in the transformation of the greek economy and in the implementation of the presidency's ambitious programme. thank you, sir.
, in writing. - my fellow members of parliament! the eu has been struggling with many problems for years. perhaps the most important of all problems is the spread of anti-semitism and racism in europe. it is anti-semitism and racism that can shatter all the positive dreams that a peaceful and prosperous europe can offer the people of europe, setting an example for humanity. the eu's mission is much more than just an economic alliance. the greek presidency must begin to rebuild mutual trust, solidarity and full respect for fundamental human rights. i was a leader of the ideological sister party of the greek golden dawn, jobbik, a few years ago, and i know exactly how much danger these far-right organizations pose to the whole of europe. now, horrified and alienated by these extremist ideas and organizations, i look forward to the courageous political steps that we can take together to fight hate. i wish the greek presidency every success in its fight against anti-semitism and racism.
, in writing. greece is taking over the rotating presidency of the council of the european union in a rather difficult situation. in 2014, the economic and social crisis is not over, and this year also sees the elections to the european parliament and the review of the greek loan programme. one of the priorities of the greek presidency is to increase the democratic legitimacy and accountability of the european union. greece, the greek people, are feeling the democratic deficits in the european union. the troika's decisions must be taken into account. it is therefore essential for the european parliament, the european institution with the greatest democratic legitimacy, to be able to monitor the economic policy recommendations of the troika and their impact on european citizens in a democratic way. despite the economic and social crisis, we must not forget the four pillars of the european union: freedom, the free movement of goods, capital, services and people. the free movement of persons is one of the union's most important achievements, without which the economic crisis would have affected europe much more severely. it is incomprehensible that high-ranking politicians from the right and the left, from the uk and bavaria, blame the problems of the european economy on the workers of central europe. eu workers in both britain and germany are putting more into the social security system than they are taking out. it is therefore of the utmost importance that the greek presidency in the next six months stands up for the fundamental values of the european union.
in writing. - russia's economic and diplomatic weight is growing steadily. this recommendation concerns scientific and technological cooperation between the european community and the government of the russian federation and proposes the renewal of the agreement, following the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy, the committee on foreign affairs and the committee on budgets. science and technology is one of the most dynamic areas of cooperation between the european union and russia and a key element of the strategic partnership. half the world is working to build relations with this nation as one of the most important global power factors, and the eu cannot be left out.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report, which also calls for action against money laundering, black trading and financial abuse. it is right, however, to point out that euro coins must not only have a uniform technical and numismatic appearance, but must also enjoy public confidence and be designed with genuine technological innovation to ensure that they are safe, reliable and efficient.
in writing. − if a country loses the right to issue money, it loses its independence. when a country's past is taken away, its future is lost. we're getting close to all of that. we're sailing socially dangerous waters. technically, the report is correct and supportable because the single eu coin system must enjoy public confidence and be based on appropriate state-of-the-art technology for protection against counterfeiting. the views of representatives of the blind were taken into account in the preparation of the proposal. if the euro does fall, at least the coin collectors will be well off.
in writing. − i welcome the report which sets out proposals for future cooperation between the european union and the asean economic community. it is of the utmost importance to the eu to develop closer strategic cooperation with a major regional and economic player such as asean, both on the basis of shared values and economic and political interests. i would particularly welcome closer and more meaningful cooperation in such important areas as transnational organised crime, corruption, money laundering, counter-terrorism and cybersecurity. the eu has considerable experience and expertise in these areas, the transfer of which could perhaps benefit the security systems of asean member states, as well as the eu itself, from a deeper and more extensive exchange of information. in crisis zones, the eu plays a major role in crisis management and security consolidation. i hope that this engagement can be further developed in the political dialogues with asean member states and can help to develop forms of cooperation that can become an effective tool in the fight against international organised crime and terrorism.
in writing. − years ago, the old eu member states succeeded in colonizing the countries that joined in 2004, including my country. this practice is being extended by the eu leadership, which wants to privatize public services first and then subject them to eu competition rules. such regulation tends to further concentrate power and expose the economically weaker peripheral countries to competition from multinational companies in the centre. all such regulation, with all its amendments, must be rejected as unilaterally serving the interests of the old member states. the cps was much more honest back then.
in writing. − modernising public procurement rules can significantly contribute to sustainable growth, employment and social inclusion within the single market. given that public procurement accounts for a very significant part of the european economy (about a fifth of the union's gdp), a rethink of the current rules could help the union to cope with the economic crisis. the public procurement reform should be based on simplification of rules, sustainability, better and wider use of e-procurement, and greater involvement of smes. the importance of socially sustainable public procurement, which takes into account social, labour and environmental considerations, is of great importance.
in writing. - nice to mark the report with james bond and a zero. and the subject is public procurement. many eu citizens think that this is a continuous crime with zero accountability. i do, however, support the preparation for the cohesion funds to be used in a non-criminal way.
in writing. − it cannot be repeated enough that a relatively prosperous country with a considerable industrial and agricultural production capacity, hungary, has been ruined by liberal economic practices in 10 years. then, in another 10 years, they managed to force the old eu member states, including my country, to join the eu in 2004. the eu's leadership is trying to seize the little remaining room for manoeuvre by first privatising public services and then subjecting them to eu competition rules. i do not dispute the serious problems in public procurement procedures, and i support any means of detecting abuses. i also support the elimination of corruption at the government level. but i cannot support the subcontracting of the domestic market to the convenience of the multinational companies of the old member states.
in writing. − public procurement markets are of great economic importance, with a weight as % of annual gdp of 16% in the eu, 11% in the us, 18% in japan and a similarly high weight in emerging countries. however, the openness of these markets is highly variable and it is therefore desirable that the union has an instrument to encourage trading partners to open their own public procurement markets to an eu-level level in bilateral and multilateral international negotiations. it is essential to ensure consistent compliance with national and union labour law standards. international cooperation should contribute to the sustainable economic, social and environmental development of developing countries, to improving employment conditions and to reducing poverty. reducing unemployment and creating new jobs has become particularly important in the face of the crisis. in view of this requirement, a compromise proposal in the union interest should be developed.
in writing. − the european parliament's plenary session voted against the interests of european and hungarian non-gmo honey producers in today's abstentionist vote on the amendment of the honey directive. the report adopted today favours the import of honey containing gmos from third countries outside the union and seriously infringes consumers' freedom of choice. we have lost the battle, but the war is not over, because today's vote is only the first step in a long negotiation process, because the negotiations with the council are still ahead of us, where together with the allied member states our country will continue to fight for the interests of hungarian honey producers.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the rapporteur's and the commission's proposal to consider pollen as a natural constituent of honey. in support of my position, i would like to give the following reasons. first of all, i think it's important to emphasize that honey should be considered a healthy, natural product. therefore, the possibility of labelling honey with genetically modified floral material as an ingredient clearly affects the reputation of honey as a natural product, which would have a direct and indirect negative impact on the beekeeping sector. i also consider the impact of the report on smes to be of paramount importance. the classification of pollen as an ingredient would significantly increase the cost of testing to obtain the information on the labels. i think the bees that would be most affected by this change are the ones that produce the lowest quantities. this may result in some amateur beekeepers ceasing their activity. on the other hand, the increased production costs resulting from the additional testing requirements will be accompanied by an increase in retail prices. for the above reasons, i agree that meps should work together on this issue!
in writing. - small, yellow, striped and buzzing. and he's very hardworking too. not the crickets. it's the bee. it's been collecting pollen for millions of years, making honey, propolis. he's pollinating the plants on the side so we can have something to eat. let's look at ourselves: have we ever thought about what we would have if bees were extinct? a process that's been going on for millions of years is being interrupted by people who think they're above everything, and they're messing up the genes. i really hope the bees survive their maneuvers. we humans are. the report is admissible.
in writing. the main objective of the hercule iii programme is to strengthen the fight against fraud, in particular the fight against cigarette smuggling. the european parliament's committee on budgetary control examined the dossier from november 2012, followed by tripartite interinstitutional consultations, and finally, thanks to the efforts of the irish and lithuanian presidencies, the latter was able to conclude the negotiations on 15 october 2013. the parliament was able to pass important points such as strengthening coordination at eu level, the definition of kpis to measure the results of the programme, or increasing the co-financing rate from 80% to 90% in member states that were more exposed to such fraud. hungary will also receive a significant share of the eur 104 918 000 budget allocated to the hercule iii programme. i supported the report in the committee and in the plenary.
in writing. − i always support all activities that promote transparency, control of the use of public funds, fight against tax evasion and the like. the hercule iii programme, which is the subject of the report, is one such programme, which aims to combat fraud and financial abuse at european level. the commission should discuss with the member states the principles for financing the activities covered by the programme, as well as the selection and evaluation criteria, before they become union legislation, without prejudice to national self-determination, and the material should therefore be supported.
in writing. − i consider the report to be of paramount importance as it would give the commission implementing powers to collect, organise and evaluate data in an appropriate way in order to produce statistical data of a high quality on the trade of goods between member states. this initiative should be particularly highlighted and supported, as it would help to integrate this new statistical system into the overall european statistical system, where it is essential to improve coordination between national authorities and eurostat. the national data sets on goods under customs procedure , i.e. export , collected in a harmonised system will in future allow a clear picture of the precise extent of intra-eu and extra-eu trade. furthermore, this report even envisages that this data can be exchanged between member states, confidentially but in compliance with all safety standards, free of charge, which i believe will promote even better integrity of the internal market in the long term.
in writing. the real world is about destroying the tropical rainforests because europe needs wood for its garden furniture. meanwhile, the commission is complaining that there's too much co2 in the air, so we're putting it underground. but nothing is being done to protect the forests, and european companies are even profiting from the sale of deforestation machines. the rich want the trophies, the ivory. there's no real sanction against possession of these. there are attempts on the trade side to restrict the processes, but more is needed. the resolution could be seen as a step forward in the fight against wildlife crime (poaching, illegal extraction, trafficking in illegal products) and should be supported.
the news of the past few days has painted a picture of the ideal eastern european worker, who is welcomed in western europe. the good eastern european worker works as hard as he can, for a strict minimum wage, no more, no less, so as not to cause social dumping or extra costs for his employer. she does all the jobs that the locals can't or won't do, takes care of old western european parents, raises the kids, takes care of herself when she's sick. the good eastern european worker leaves his family behind, does not burden the education and health care system of the host country with them, does not claim family allowance for his children, and does not go to the doctor when he is sick. he doesn't even send his salary home, he spends it all on the spot, letting domestic consumption grow. he lives in a workhouse or an abandoned shed because he doesn't want to increase demand and beat the already high rents. he's quietly tolerating being labeled a charity tourist, a free-spirited person, or an undesirable person who's contributing to a deterioration in crime statistics. if you send him home, he'll go home, come back when he's called. but the ideal eastern european is not a worker. he's a billionaire businessman, so it's okay if the source of his wealth isn't entirely clear. he's granted citizenship and freedom of movement. but this is not a europe of solidarity, of common values. we eastern europeans did not join this.
mr president i don't want to repeat the arguments that were made at the end of the debate. i would like to emphasize a few points which may have been overstated. one of the european union's most important achievements is the creation and construction of the european common internal market. the fundamental rights on which the european internal market is based form a coherent system. if you attack any of its elements, you weaken it, you call into question the european single market itself, you attack the european single market. secondly, social legislation is a national competence. each member state has the power to define social rights, access rules and to make rules for when someone violates or abuses these rights. i find the guidance issued by the commission useful. perhaps the representatives of the individual countries can be better informed in it. and once again - one sentence - only 3% of the european union's workforce are migrant workers. of that 3%, only 1/5 of that could be from bulgaria and romania, and almost immeasurably, a fraction of that could be from abusive people. i think this problem has resulted in a rather exaggerated and unrealistic debate. (the intervener agrees to answer a question referred for a preliminary ruling (article 149 (8) of the rules of procedure). )
that's a two-card answer. thank you, i understand the question. i was not talking about consumers, i was talking about the internal market, that part of the internal market, part of a coherent system, is the system of fundamental rights, so is the system of free movement. in any case, most of the workers who work in other countries have an income there and are obviously consumers in that sense. but this is not a debate about consumers, it is a debate about the single internal market. the question of the free movement of persons, the question of the future of the european construction, is at stake.
blue-card question. – if the free movement of people – one of the cornerstones of the european union – is to be stopped, maybe it would be a good idea to stop the other one – the free movement of capital. maybe those british friends of ours who want us east europeans to be stopped from going to britain should take their tescos from our countries – then we would have more opportunities for work for our peasants, for our small shops, for our small businesses, and that would be a deal. would you agree with that, mr stoyanov?
, in writing. the safe harbour convention was created by the european commission and the us to bridge the gap between the problems posed by different data protection directives. us companies operating in the eu can transfer european data to the us without any review. the ftc monitors whether companies comply with the seven principles of the convention when they transfer data. after the nsa case broke, many in the european parliament were concerned that sensitive data of european citizens and businesses could be transferred to us databases without any special controls. the european commission's 13-point proposal would improve the convention in terms of transparency, redress, enforcement and access to data. many in the european parliament, however, argued for the immediate suspension of the convention. i myself am inclined to wait for the commission's report in the summer of 2014 on whether the us has complied with the commission's recommendations and to decide on the possible suspension of the convention in this light. the majority of the ep is also in favour of suspending tftp. i would consider such a move rash and irresponsible. the tftp is a key instrument in the fight against terrorism. since neither the commission nor europol are aware of any misuse of the information provided by the tftp, i would not consider it fortunate to have a sudden weakening of the fight against terrorism and the creation of unnecessary security risks.
on behalf of the s&d group. - mr president! i welcome the clear words of the commissioner and i welcome the fact that this debate is taking place today, because it gives us the opportunity to reflect together on the relationship between national and european citizenship and to express our commitment to european values. throughout europe, there is a growing trend of events that call into question our basic values. these are partly the consequences of the crisis, but if we do not address them in time, they could undermine the whole of the european construction. one of the most important acquis of the union is citizenship, which includes freedom of movement, the right to vote, eligibility and consular protection. the value of this is illustrated by the fact that in a monday advertisement in the financial times, which has 2.2 million readers, a company offers its services for a presumably good price to obtain citizenship or residence permits in several eu countries. more and more countries are seeing money-making opportunities in the direct or indirect sale of european citizenship or residence permits and the competition is creating a downward spiral. in many places, the principle that there should be a direct link between the state and its citizens seems to be falling into the background. some governments look to mass citizenship for direct political gain, not financial gain. the treaties leave the question of establishment and citizenship to the member states. but these, like many other decisions, can raise problems at eu level, affecting the question of trust between countries, the external relations of the union, directly affecting other countries because of the freedom of establishment and, in particular, the freedom of movement within schengen. the privileged citizenship of the richest is neither fair nor equitable, it creates a new kind of inequality. europe today tends to keep out those who don't bring immediate benefits. in the mediterranean region, it leaves refugees stranded, who are trying to reach the union territory at great risk, for lack of money. what is the response of the member states, of the union to this discrimination? i call on the commission to examine, in the spirit of eu values, the different programmes in the member states which grant residence permits and, directly or indirectly, eu citizenship, and to make recommendations to the member states which can later serve as the basis for a common policy.
that is not exactly a very concrete question but please try to answer.
it is also very difficult to explain why romania is outside the schengen area, but that is another debate.
i did not recognise the question, but maybe you will be able to answer.
i would really urge those who raise the blue card to have a clear question so we can have a clear answer, otherwise we will just waste our time.
my fellow officers. there's a lot of ambition for the speeches. i'd like to remind you that you can put your point of view in writing. legally, there is a possibility of a blue card, but if we limit - and we must limit - the use of the phrase "catch the eye" at the moment, then we cannot even qualify for a blue card.
you have a lot of options, but not to criticize the chairman! - one of them. two, "catch the eye" is not a right, it's an opportunity, the right of the incumbent president to give the floor to five people. i gave my word to eight. there is no question of any voluntary pruning.
you are completely right. the title of the debate refers to ‘citizenship’. i fully agree with you, but naturally you know better than me what is behind this – which is malta. i fully agree that it is not nice to subject only one country to analysis, but we are here now.
i have received six motions for resolutions tabled in accordance with rule 110 (2) of the rules of procedure. i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place on thursday 16 january 2014 at 12 noon. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
in writing. – can citizenship be treated solely as a commodity? the present government of malta seems to think so – an attitude that can fairly be described as market fundamentalism gone mad. indeed, why stop with citizenship? why not start selling everything else that makes money? the answer is obvious, or should be: some things cannot be treated as objects for sale and citizenship is one of them. why? because citizenship is at the heart of the relationship between citizens and their state. make it a commodity and the relationship will erode. can we envisage citizens who have no relationship with the state of which they are citizens? because this is what we are dealing with. and a final point – maltese citizenship is, at the same time, european citizenship and all the member states of europe are stakeholders in malta. the maltese government should confront this reality.
the following joint debate item is balkans/results reports: statement by the council and the commission on the 2013 results report on serbia (2013/2880 ((rsp)) and statement by the council and the commission on the european integration process in kosovo (2013/2881 ((rsp)).
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, let me commend mr kacin’s report. it is very good and cooperation with the shadows has been excellent. i think we can also all agree with what mr kacin said: this has been a key year in serbia. it is a major achievement. serbia deserves due praise for this, and above all for the breakthrough in relations with kosovo. the historic significance of the belgrade-pristina dialogue is hard to overestimate; coming to terms with the loss of territory is very hard to bear for any country. at the same time we should not allow ourselves to be mesmerised by the kosovo issue, emotionally crucial though it is. there are several other problems on the agenda. first, there is the serbian constitution, which still regards kosovo as an organic part of its territory. clearly this will have to change, sooner or later. serbia should address the centralising mindset that plays such a strong role in policy-making. the slow encroachment by the centre on the autonomy of the province of vojvodina, and indeed of local government, is evidently pointing in the wrong direction and runs counter to subsidiarity and effective governance. then there is the deep level problem of corruption. it is a commonplace that corruption flourishes where the private sector meets the state unless there is a strong, independent administration of the law. with the best will in world it would be difficult to assert that the serbian legal system is in this category. sadly, the opposite appears to be true. these issues are interconnected. the very praiseworthy efforts by the government to root out corruption have involved centralisation and political action, which is excellent. but in the longer term a balance will have to be struck between the anti-corruption drive, the relative weakness of the legal administration and over-centralisation. finally, the most serious issue facing the serbian authorities is that of the economy, which is in a very poor state. the many years of misgovernment in the past have generated grave distortions to market activity. in this area action is extremely urgent.
national self-determination, genuine territorial autonomy similar to south tyrol human rights, including the right to use languages, the right to live free from discrimination and abuse. the hungarians of the southern region or of the vaidășia region want and demand these things. the indigenous community that has lived in the same place for over a thousand years in the territory of present-day serbia, because of the infamous peace dictatorship of trianon, but whose demand for justice is silenced in the accession process by both the serbian state, the hungarian state and the largest hungarian party, the so-called vmsz. so i thank you for having an hour of conversation with commissioner füle today to receive the message of the silenced hungarians of the south. i would like to thank the ten ngos, human rights organisations, four smaller parties, leading intellectuals who have not been able to participate in the serbian accession process, but i hope that from now on - with the help of commissioner füle - they will not only be the victims but also the shapers of the decisions affecting them. i ask and demand in their name that hungary veto the serbian accession until the end of the mass violations against the hungarians in the south.
mr president, it is indispensable that all eu member states finally recognise the independence and sovereignty of kosovo. if the five countries recognise their true national interests, it will be easy to walk the missing mile. dear slovak friends, if you do not recognise kosovo for fear of alleged hungarian separatism, you fall into a trap, because the real reference point is slovak sovereignty. do you deny the right of your own people to self-determination, which is now supported by all respectable hungarians? dear romanian friends, do you consider the union of transylvania with romania illegitimate? no hungarian person in his right mind would do that. no need to fear hungarian separatism. do not undermine your own position by denying kosovars self-determination. if slovakia and romania recognised the independence of kosovo, serbia would have no choice but to follow them. will serbs delegitimise the incorporation of vojvodina into serbia after world war one by refusing to acknowledge the sovereignty of kosovo, with its 90 % albanian population? serbia and kosovo, we need both of you in the european union.
mr president i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on a good and substantial report. i thank you and consider it important that key issues for the hungarian people in exile have also been identified, and at the same time i ask the commission to monitor these problems during the negotiations so that matters can be resolved as quickly as possible in a satisfactory manner, such as the preservation of the competence of the national councils or the non-discriminatory application of the laws on restitution and rehabilitation. i welcome the start of negotiations with serbia. the requirements of the union must first of all benefit the entire population of serbia, including all minorities, including the former hungarian community. previous accession processes have demonstrated that issues affecting national minorities should be included in the accession process. moreover, there must be a reassuring solution to these problems before the country joins. i therefore consider it important that the negotiating chapter, which includes issues concerning these fundamental rights, should remain open until the last moment of accession.
serbia will start accession negotiations in a few days' time, and kosovo is preparing to conclude an association agreement in the spring. the future of europe was also within sight of belgrade and pristina. this is in no small part the result of a dialogue mediated by the european union. what is needed now is for the agreements reached under the roof to go beyond mere paper, and to make a real difference in the lives of people on both sides of the border. with the start of the trial, serbia will be subject to increased surveillance and will have to demonstrate from day one that it is making efforts to respect democratic values and fundamental rights, to ensure an independent judiciary, and to fight corruption and organised crime. it is in belgrade's interest to maintain visa-free travel, which could be jeopardised by another wave of serbian migration. it is important that visa-free travel is not jeopardised and is a very important motivating factor in maintaining the eu's commitment to accession.
on behalf of the ppe group. on behalf of the european people's party, i welcome this joint debate and the draft joint resolution. i think it is important to point out that homelessness is unfortunately not a problem of a few countries but of all the member states of europe, even if the degree of its seriousness varies somewhat. we agree with the commissioner that homelessness is one of the most extreme and extreme forms of poverty and unfortunately it is also true that in recent years the rate of homelessness has increased in almost all countries. it is clear that a multilateral political response is needed, as this is a complex phenomenon. it is also important to note that the primary responsibility for ending homelessness lies with the member states. at the same time, the current eu framework calls for more ambitious and closer coordination and cooperation. many european institutions, epsco, the council, the committee of the regions, the european economic and social committee, and we in the european parliament have already called on the european commission to create a homelessness strategy. i was pleased to hear the commissioner speak about monitoring, about asking for suggestions. i was pleased to hear that they are planning to include proposals on homelessness in the country-specific recommendations. but i don't think that's enough. the commission should develop a strategy for cooperation, with a view to closer coordination of programmes. we think it would be good if you set up an expert committee and it would be good if there was real progress in the collection, management and analysis of data to enable comparable joint analyses and comparability of programmes.
we welcome the commission's intentions as expressed by the commissioner, although we do think that it is late in the cycle, but there may be further steps. homelessness is the most brutal form of social exclusion, which also seriously violates human dignity. we know that the economic crisis has increased poverty, increased homelessness, but we don't have the exact figures. you mentioned, officer, that they're doing a survey. it would be very important to know the exact extent of homelessness. and we would also ask the human rights agency to look into the human rights implications of extreme poverty and homelessness. while homelessness is a member state responsibility, we must ensure that governments and local authorities seek solutions based on our common european values. today, there has been a lot of talk about the criminalisation of homelessness, which is unacceptable and requires action at european level. the european union funds, the regional development fund and the social fund can help to improve the situation. we therefore ask the commission to take this into account in the partnership agreements.
madam president, commissioner, colleagues, thank you for making this statement today. sexual and reproductive health rights are fundamental rights. today’s europe should ensure equal rights and treatment and access for all. it is an issue of shared concern that requires a european approach. i cannot accept the fact that certain european women, due to their geographical location and/or social status in the europe of the 21st century, will soon be denied the free choice and access to sexual and reproductive health rights, including abortion – as in spain. i therefore call on the european commission to defend those rights and the free choice of all women by promoting sexual education, medical assistance and support, prevention, contraception, the morning-after pill and abortion. this should be affordable and accessible for everyone. moreover, guaranteeing sexual and reproductive rights is not only a health issue, it also contributes to women’s empowerment and economic independence. introducing a stricter abortion law is not only saying ‘no’ to abortion, it is also saying ‘no’ to women’s rights and turning back the clock 30 years, to a time where religious lobbies prevailed over women’s rights. we say again today: my body is my right.
i listened with interest to my fellow left-wing male mps' militant stance on abortion, women's right to vote, and control over their own bodies. i would like to ask them to write a report on men's responsibility, which i will support wholeheartedly. organize educational campaigns for your male partners, telling them what their mothers may have forgotten to mention, that children are not born from the gourd, they are not born from cabbage leaves, they are not unplanned, but that your male partners have ways to prevent this. so let's have a thorough, european-wide campaign to make men really stand with women in family planning, birth control, and let's have the slogan that a real man would never impregnate a woman against her will, neither in a casual relationship nor in marriage. and if you are in favour of real choice, my dear male colleagues, then encourage your male colleagues to ensure that if an unplanned pregnancy does occur, it can actually become a pregnancy. i have a minute and a half, madam president, even if you do not like my opinion, let me finish. if you take seriously the interests of women, and the fact that women don't have to go through the physical, emotional and spiritual trials and suffering that the... (the president withdrew the floor from the member. )
the next item is the vote. (for the results of the votes and other details, see minutes)
that was a very important remark. i think you are right, but i am informed that all the languages were available in electronic form. we will, however, check it. you are completely right when you say that we have to maintain our multilingual procedure.
thank you very much. i'm gonna say it slowly so i can translate it properly. it's very important to keep the language regime, today we're going to... (whispering in the room) so we're going to check the translation, and you're right about being accurate.
before the vote on recital l:
i'll close the voting hour.
in writing. − in 2012, the european commission launched its programme to put industrialisation back at the heart of the european growth model. this requires europe to become competitive again and to create new jobs and a sustainable growth path through reindustrialisation. the report adopted in the itre committee includes the proposals of the people's party, which supported the report, which i supported in the plenary vote.
in writing. - the speaker is usually very insightful, especially about mining, about raw materials. this report is supposed to be about industrial policy, but it's more like a glossary of terms about efficiency, innovation, r&d, synergies and so on. we need a proper industrial policy concept, but first we need a factual analysis. but the commission is not even able to stop the staggering german export surplus which is destroying central and southern europe, or to prevent foreign trade agreements from unilaterally favouring the central countries. despite the acceptable parts of the report, it cannot be supported as a whole because it is worth as much as the lisbon 2000 set of goals, which say that we are now the most competitive region in the world. while in reality .....
in writing. − the nomination of sabine lautenschläger was supported by a majority of the economic and monetary affairs committee of the european parliament. ms lautenschläger was previously vice-president of the german central bank and was nominated by the german government to the executive board of the european central bank. i voted for the candidate in the plenary.
in writing. − the report aims to compensate producers in the french overseas departments for the disadvantages they suffer as a result of their distance, small size, geographical location, difficult climatic conditions and economic dependence on certain products. as a result, a derogation was granted to certain french overseas territories, which expired on 31 december 2013. in order to stimulate the economy of the overseas regions, it was decided to allow the derogation for a further seven years and thereby to authorise the reduced application of certain indirect taxes on traditional rum produced in the territories of guadeloupe, french guiana and martinique.
in writing. - in almost every store in the country, you could find puerto rican rum, which was 60%. giving the average city worker the opportunity to start with a half-deci in the morning to disinfect his stomach, his intestines. in the country, they've always known that no more than half a dozen of a good, strong shot in the morning is the foundation of health. now, there's eu regulations, and only 40% is acceptable. which is no longer disinfecting. the drug lobby won this one. the report facilitates the import of traditional tropical rum. i wonder if they'll water this one afterwards. it doesn't matter much anymore, though, because there's no jobs left, and there's hardly any. hungary and the eu are also doing better.
in writing. - the "hocus spiders" who think they're the best, have been crawling around in the order of creation for a few years. and they're trying to feed us their garbage, which they call food. because it's nice not to spray. true, it'll increase the chemical levels in the plant a hundredfold, but that doesn't matter, just that it produces its own poison. the point is that money is going to the multinational companies, and there is always an "independent" laboratory, a research institute, that says gmo crops are good for human consumption. if not, they feed it, and from now on, no one will know why they fed that animal whose meat, milk, eggs are on our table. finally, a good thing has happened: the commission has been able to ensure that no new gmo variants are authorised and no authorisations are renewed until risk assessment methods have been significantly improved.
in writing. − on the initiative of the maltese socialist government, citizenship of malta and, therefore, automatically of the eu can be purchased for €650,000. malta does not impose any additional administrative conditions on the buyer, so there is no need to prove that the buyer has a lasting commitment to malta. the socialist proposal has caused a great deal of outrage among maltese citizens and in the public opinion of the eu member states. the implementation of such an initiative would depreciate the value and credibility of union citizenship and would also jeopardise the international acceptance of the union passport. the sale of citizenship without guarantees would also entail serious security risks, creating new threats to both the eu and member states' law enforcement agencies and to the transatlantic security system as a whole. the irresponsible and cynical initiative of the maltese socialists underlines the need to define more clearly than ever the status of eu citizenship associated with national citizenship in the unity of rights and obligations.
in writing. − with serbia, the european council approved the opening of accessions in june 2013. the resolution welcomes the council's decision and the serbian government's commitment to european integration. the commission also calls for further reforms and measures in the areas of justice, the fight against fraud and corruption and the protection of minorities, which is also important for the hungarian minority. on 21 january, accession negotiations between serbia and the eu began, and i supported the resolution in the plenary vote. however, it is important that minority rights are given priority during the negotiations.
in writing. − the decision by the june 2013 european council to launch accession negotiations with serbia is to be highly welcomed as well as the commitment shown by the serbian government to the european integration process. despite several commendable achievements however, there remain some serious issues to be addressed. efforts on implementing the legislative framework related to minorities throughout the country must be continued and serbia must address more vigorously the situation of roma. anti-discrimination legislation must be fully harmonised with eu policies and a holistic approach towards roma inclusion must be applied, including effective monitoring of inclusion measures in order to narrow the gap between legislation and its implementation. furthermore, serbia must step up its efforts to combat trafficking in human beings and to this end must formalise the roles and responsibilities of officials and service providers in identifying the victims and referring them to the services concerned.
in writing. − i would like to welcome the april 2013 agreement on normalisation of relations between belgrade and pristina under the eu-facilitated dialogue, and kosovoʼs launch of negotiations for a stabilisation and association agreement with the eu in october 2013. kosovar authorities must make further progress in a multitude of pressing issues however. both central and local-level institutions must implement the legislation on human rights effectively and contribute to the further development of a multi-ethnic society, in particular by addressing the situation of roma as one of the key human-rights issues in kosovo. kosovar authorities must, furthermore, implement fully the convention on the rights of the child and revise the policies regarding child poverty, including modification of the social assistance scheme and the introduction of a universal, means-tested child benefit scheme. organised crime – and more specifically trafficking and exploitation of women and underage persons for sexual exploitation or forced begging – must also be combated effectively. a comprehensive, multi-disciplinary and victim-oriented approach is needed to this end, with unhindered access to assistance, support and protection for victims. efforts to prosecute, convict and sentence sex and labour trafficking offenders also need to be strengthened.
in writing. the very benevolent former colonialists, apparently by accident, drew maps and drawn national boundaries in such a way that they cut the ancient habitat of peoples in two. now they hypocritically gossip about tribal conflicts that often end in murder. that's where we need to take democracy. with the military, of course, or even a u.n. mandate, but not necessarily. we must put loyal leaders on the throne so that the plundering of mineral wealth can now proceed in a fully democratic manner. all the wealth of western europe came from this. that does not make the resolution objectionable, but it does give the worm its view of the world: light and shadow.
thank you to everyone who spoke, especially those who told us how they voted, because that didn't come out in all the speeches. thank you, mrs. zaborska, for listening to the speeches. i adjourn the meeting until 3:00.
when we hungarians hear about eu infringements and infringement procedures, many bitter memories come to mind. however, when i look at mrs vivien reding, who is sitting here, and i think of mr tavares, who is almost never seen in the chamber, i also think of success stories, namely that there have been many attempts to force us to kneel, which we have been able to resist and overcome. we now face a new threat. hungary intends to make energy services non-profit. of course, the inhuman system of money and profit attacks again, threatens again. we hungarians should know that the report shows that in the five years since we, the few of us who sit here in the european parliament, began this term, some 10 000 infringement proceedings or infringement proceedings have been initiated. so it's not a big deal, and it also shows up in the report that there are some who are showing a little bit of disdain for this and not following the union's orders. we should do the same as often as possible.
the danger for europe is not primarily extremist parties, but the failure of the majority of society to act against these ideas. last week, the leader of the hungarian jobbik was in london, where a large crowd was waiting for him and made it clear that he did not want to be associated with neo-nazi ideas. no one was willing to provide a venue for a better meeting. in hungary, on the other hand, the fidesz government is gradually cleaning up the horthy regime, which is being praised by the far right, and is making anti-semitic authors acceptable to society by making their works compulsory. it honors journalists and artists with far-right views. now he's about to erect a statue to commemorate the nazi occupation, blurring the distinction between perpetrators and victims. your court historian calls the deportations of jews a foreign police procedure. this is also a common european issue, not just the economic and financial problems of individual member states.
2014 will be an exceptional year in europe in several ways. on the one hand, we can look back on the first ten years of the membership of the central european and baltic states, including hungary, in the eu, and on the other hand, this year we celebrate the quarter-century anniversary of the end of the cold war confrontation, of the changes in the central european system, of the hungarian negotiated revolution. 1989 was indeed the year of miracles and a fitting end to the 1956 revolution and freedom struggle. we can be proud that the fall of the berlin wall and the reunification of germany could not have been possible without the courage of hungary. we can be proud of the government of németh miklós, foreign minister gyula horn, who had the courage to open the borders to tens of thousands of east german refugees, to break down the iron curtain that divided europe. on the 25th anniversary of the regime change, we hungarians can proudly say that we did our part.
last week, a european commission official complained about the regulation of retail energy prices in 17 eu member states and suggested various measures against the member states concerned. hungary is among the countries attacked. the hungarian authorities have recently reduced the recession costs by 20% and have required that consumers receive clear information. the commission's threat is unjustified and contrary to european law. the directive on the internal market in natural gas not only empowers member states to protect consumers, but also obliges them to do so. that's what the hungarian tax cuts are about, protecting consumers. it would therefore be a serious mistake for the commission to overstep its bounds and to go against not only the majority of member states but also the citizens of europe. such bad statements could further increase the number of people who are disillusioned with the eu, which is particularly bad timing during elections. i suggest that the commission is not seeking to punish member states that are protecting the interests of citizens, but rather its own unruly staff.
madam president, what is your policy on the blue card and what do the rules of procedure say about the blue card? i raised a blue card two speakers ago. you saw me, and your assistants saw me, and you completely ignored my blue card. why is that?
in this debate, virtually all the speeches were about the fact that the european union is based on the principles of equality, equality between people and equal treatment and non-discrimination. maybe that's the theory, or maybe that's what everyone thinks is right. in practice, however, the opposite is true, particularly between nationals of member states. it is simply a lie that the european union has brought the principle of equal dignity or non-discrimination into european life. compare a cashier or a salesman at a hungarian food chain with a fellow employee of the same foreign food chain in, say, mrs. lunacek's country, austria, or germany. one earns 200 or 250 euros and is totally deprived of his right to work, the other earns several times as much and is entitled to protection of his right to work. this is where the anti-discrimination movement should start, and then i think everyone would have a better understanding of discrimination and equal treatment.
a high level of consumer protection ensures high quality products and increases consumer confidence, thus contributing to the efficiency of the internal market. i agree with mr rochefort that the provisions of the directive in force are satisfactory and that there is no need for an in-depth revision of the text at the moment, but that it is essential that the directive is fully implemented and properly applied by the member states. there are of course still shortcomings as regards the need for stricter application of directive 2005/29/ec. the commission should therefore closely monitor the application of the legislation and, where appropriate, take action against member states which infringe, fail to implement or apply the directive correctly, in accordance with the treaty on the functioning of the european union. i also consider it imperative to ensure that consumers have effective, quick and low-cost redress options. in this regard, member states should also fully implement the directive on alternative dispute resolution for consumer disputes and the regulation on out-of-court settlement of disputes arising from online transactions.
i have said many times in this house that the eu is increasingly able to deal with economic and financial deficits, but not democratic deficits, or only to a limited extent. the eu's toolbox for enforcing the rights of eu citizens goes beyond political pressure, as laid down in article 7 of the eu treaty. the european parliament, regardless of party families, has expressed the basic need for a mechanism of democratic control to enable the union to deal with democratic deficits. the european commission has shown a clear commitment, and the council's initiative of the four member states' foreign ministers is encouraging. on this basis, we urge the european commission, commissioner andor, to deliver on its promise to prepare a proposal in the first half of this year to set up a mechanism to monitor democracy and the rule of law.
the european union places a high value on the rule of law. in contrast, it gives no semblance of professionalism when it comes to legal matters or justice. today we had a debate on a report on the law, entitled the 29th annual report on the monitoring of the application of eu law. it's not a small matter in the legal world. it was represented by a rapporteur from parliament with a teaching qualification who had never studied law and, as is well known, had not studied law for a single semester by mrs vivien reding, who, with such a lack of training, became the minister of justice for 500 million people. i am always happy to see hungarians, and i am also glad to have mr andor lászló here, but i would like to ask you, mr commissioner, how come you are here, when you are dealing with a completely different subject, when we are discussing the efficiency of the judiciary in the member states?
i am glad that the european union is concerned about small farmers and small farms. we in hungary would like to see a concrete sign of this in the fact that they would like to prevent the land thefts that are taking place in hungary by other eu member states. let me get this straight. the moratorium, the land purchase moratorium against foreigners in hungary is still alive. we, the national sentiment of the hungarian people, would like very much for it to live forever. maybe we'll get to that one day. it seems that until may this year, foreigners will not be allowed to acquire land in hungary. so please take note of the austrian government, the austrian ministry, the austrian people and companies and the other eu citizens and companies that those contracts, the so-called pocket contracts that they have concluded, are null and void, the creation of pocket contracts is a criminal offence. and we ask the european union to support hungary in restoring the rule of law and ending the abductions of foreigners in hungary.
in writing. i would like to draw your attention to the fact that the un has declared 2014 as the international year of family farming. the opening event of the year will be the 'world forum and exhibition on family management' conference, to be held in budapest from 4 to 7 march 2014. i believe that family farms form the backbone of the european agricultural model. they play a central role in both global and local food security. i therefore welcome the askersky report on the future of small farms. i agree with the objective that the commission and the member states should take greater account of the specific needs of family farms in the measures planned to be introduced both under the new cap and for the period after 2020.
in writing. in hungary there are about half a million farms with less than five hectares of land. a significant proportion of them have not been involved in any eu support programme to date. the new common agricultural policy, starting in 2015, will allow for flat-rate support for small farms of less than five hectares under the simplified small farmer support scheme. the cap system allows the area-based payment condition to be reduced to 0,3 hectares. in this case, 200 000 families and small farms could receive eu support. this could help improve the living conditions of half a million rural residents by eur 350 000 a year. i therefore call on the next hungarian government to set the limit of the eu aid at 0.3 hectares in favour of four million people living below the subsistence level, mainly in rural villages. it is equally important that the state supports the market access of small farms by developing integration and cooperation, as well as financial and advisory tools. the survival of small, self-sufficient or semi-self-sufficient farms is key to ensuring farmers' jobs, a decent income and preventing rural depopulation. the viability of european agriculture can only be ensured by a multi-level agricultural competitiveness model: we need large farms that are globally competitive, medium-sized farms producing for the regional market and family and small farms that meet local needs. the balanced ratio of the three levels ensures the stability and diversity of european agriculture.
the third point of the report's recommendations is that immigration policy and the management of legal and illegal migration flows are the common and shared responsibility of the member states of the union. that is an outrageous statement, which makes me not even think about voting for this report. it's not a shared responsibility, please. there is a different responsibility for colonizing nations, for example, who had huge colonial empires, became rich, and are still rich countries today. so their responsibility is different from the responsibility of the poorest post-communist new member states in eastern europe, like hungary, which is currently undergoing a new kind of colonization, and as a result we are more of a sending country in terms of migration. so i ask the european union to be concerned first and foremost about the hungarian, romanian, bulgarian and other migrant women in the european union, who are equally exposed to the risk of exploitation, the risk of prostitution and trafficking in women, the risk of violence, just within the european union, while we are in principle equal member states.
in writing, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it was time to put forward this legislative proposal in the area of collective management of rights, which aims to create an appropriate legal framework for the activities carried out by collective management organisations on behalf of rightholders. the proposal aims to protect authors who, in future, as rightholders in the union, would be free to choose which collective rights manager to entrust their rights to. it is of particular importance that the first part of the directive deals with transparency and good governance of collective management organisations. in the future, there will be operating rules that all such organizations will have to follow. furthermore, collective management organisations should cooperate, as their licensing role in the online music industry is essential for the creation of a genuine digital single market in the union. i would like to draw the attention of my colleagues to the fact that by voting in favour of this report we would be taking a giant step forward in the area of collective management of rights, and i therefore propose that you support it.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the legislative proposal which aims to create an appropriate legal framework for collective management organisations to manage rights collectively on behalf of rightholders. the proposal establishes rules to ensure better governance and greater transparency of collective management organisations. it shall also encourage and facilitate the multi-territorial licensing of authors' rights in musical works by collective management organisations. in view of the digital world, online licensing should facilitate online access to musical content in the member states. common rights management organisations in the european union will also issue licenses for foreign music works to online service providers established abroad. in my view, collective management organisations in the eu should continue to play an important role in preserving cultural diversity and should become partners in managing rights for european and international artists. joint rightholders should ensure that authors are remunerated swiftly and should help to clarify for authors who represents them in respect of which rights.
in writing - i condemn all forms of discrimination against members of sexual minorities on the grounds of their sexual orientation and expression. i find all such gender labels reprehensible. today i abstained from the final vote on the lunacek report because i still believe that, beyond condemning discrimination, there are many details that can only be regulated by national jurisdiction. i cannot accept the tendency to apply double standards between minorities and minorities. in my 10 years as a member of parliament, there has never been a report on traditional and linguistic minorities like this. i also regret that the european left regularly uses issues of values to stir up a value debate, which is put on the agenda, especially in the run-up to elections, and thereby divides the european right. it does this by putting on the agenda of parliament issues which are purely a matter for the member states and which do not fall within the community's competence.
in writing. - i abstained from voting on the report because, although i and this is proven by my work over the last 5 years condemn all forms of discrimination, while the eu institutions use a double standard in judging discrimination against different social groups for example people with disabilities or traditional national minorities and there is no way forward for certain groups, i cannot support this either. it is also important to emphasise that the issue is a matter of national competence.
in writing. - the european parliament, in its own initiative report, responded to the 2013 eu justice scoreboard, which assesses the effectiveness of national justice systems, at today's plenary session. the main message of the parliament is that any comparison of justice systems should be based on objective criteria, with full respect for the sovereignty of the member states and the different legal and constitutional traditions. we aim to improve the quality and efficiency of justice at both eu and national level. predictable, efficient and timely justice is also essential to enhance competitiveness. thanks to the new hungarian basic law and the judicial reform, hungary now fully meets these requirements, and we are therefore interested in developing an objective evaluation system in which the commission acts impartially and without applying double standards. the judicial system of each member state should be assessed on the basis of objective criteria not on the basis of public opinion polls or press reports. hungary was subject to subjective political criticism in 2012, when the commission, following an analysis of the justice systems, made specific recommendations concerning certain member states. today, we have stopped the socialists' attempt to use the judicial scoreboard for political purposes, thus jeopardizing the real purpose of the tool, which is to evaluate objectively and statistically.
in writing. - i would like to welcome the initiative aiming at contributing to the development of national judicial systems and strengthening their quality, efficiency and independence. it may also contribute to the effective application of eu legislation in cases when national courts apply eu law as ‘union courts’. the scoreboard, however, must be based on equal treatment between member states and must respect the individual traits and different legal traditions in each country. any political misuse of the initiative must be strictly avoided and the regular evaluations must be founded on reliable and comparable data. i hope that, as a non-binding tool operated in the context of an open dialogue with member states, the scoreboard may help define better justice policies and identify judiciary issues that deserve particular attention.
in writing. - the main message of parliament in relation to the eu judicial scoreboard 2013 is that any comparison of justice systems should be based on objective criteria, with full respect for the sovereignty of the member states and the different legal and constitutional traditions. we aim to improve the quality and efficiency of justice at both eu and national level. predictable, efficient and timely justice is also essential to enhance competitiveness. thanks to the new hungarian basic law and the judicial reform, hungary now fully meets these requirements, and we are therefore interested in developing an objective evaluation system in which the commission acts impartially and without applying double standards. the judicial system of each member state should be assessed on the basis of objective criteria, not on the basis of public opinion polls or press reports. we call on the commission to take greater account of the differences between national justice systems in the future when collecting data and defining indicators, thus ensuring equal treatment for all member states in the assessment of their justice systems.
in writing. - the steel industry has a long tradition in europe and plays an important role in the economic life of the union. innovative steel products provide durability and energy efficiency in a number of strategic sectors. with more than 500 steelworks in europe directly employing 360 000 people, it is crucial for economic and security of supply reasons as well as social considerations that europe has a strong steel base in the future. the main industries representing the markets for steel products have been in crisis since 2009 and therefore today many european steel mill owners have been forced to partially reduce capacity or to close down completely. the difficult situation is further aggravated by the fact that the union steel industry is at a serious competitive disadvantage due to high european energy prices, strict environmental standards and trade restrictions imposed by developing countries. the issue is also of key importance for hungary, as the steel industry is a strategically important sector in hungary, and the stable operation and long-term profitability of dunaferr is therefore of prime hungarian interest. the commission also found that the union industry's sales volume increased by more than 10% during the period considered. the european parliament calls for stronger eu action against international trade restrictions on raw materials and steel products. the decision adopted today calls for the fight against unfair competition from third countries to be tackled by making more effective use of the appropriate trade defence instruments at its disposal.
only international trade based on mutual benefits and fair procedures will produce a satisfactory result. if either of those two is missing, then this trade will not be sustainable in the long run. the european union must therefore act against unfair trading practices, especially as the european union is one of the most open trading partners in the world and unfortunately there are more and more people who are almost accustomed to unfair trading practices against the european union. in particular, dumping and distortions of raw material and energy prices, such as the tensions over rare earth metals. these are causing serious damage to the european union's economy and threatening jobs. consequently, trade defence instruments should be used much more effectively, small and medium-sized enterprises should be involved in such procedures as much as possible, penalties should be applied to products on the road so that retaliatory measures cannot be circumvented, and in particular, in raw materials and energy, deterrent duties should be applied, which should be retaliatory in nature in order to discourage anyone who tries to do so.
mr. president, ladies and gentlemen of the house of representatives, the commission proposal before us is aimed at modernising both the anti-dumping and the anti-subsidy rules. anti-dumping duties should be imposed at the level of the injury caused to european producers by dumping. we must ensure that the present proposal is strengthened, i think, because we must raise the duties to a level which is also a penalty, otherwise they will not be retrograde, dissuasive. i believe that the protection of european industry requires that we use all the means at our disposal to strengthen european smes, so that we can not only preserve existing jobs but also create new ones by strengthening our market position and increasing our competitiveness. so i think we don't have to hold him back from raising tariffs. not only should it be damaging, but it should be deterrent.
minister! let me express my appreciation on behalf of parliament for taking part in the debate which was not scheduled. i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place on wednesday 5 february 2014. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
the following point is the council and commission declaration on the need to swiftly adopt a broad financial transaction tax (2014/2513 ((rsp)).
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, many experts suggest that the financial transaction tax (ftt) is a wunderwaffe to solve all underlying problems of the banking crisis. nothing is further from the truth. the ftt cannot even be considered a major source of revenue for the eu budget. in any case, it is not something to be called ‘own revenue’. it is indispensable to define precisely the objectives we wish to achieve when designing new solutions to the still unfolding banking crisis. firstly, we want to make retail banking safe and retail deposits secure. that can be best achieved by three actions: separation of commercial and investment banking with a new glass-steagall arrangement; strengthening deposit insurance at the european level; and applying no tax, i repeat, applying no tax on either deposits or lending. look no further than the hugely negative impact of the all-encompassing banking tax in my country. we have now a government-orchestrated credit crunch and no growth at all. secondly, we would like to avoid contagion by ring-fencing potentially toxic investment banking assets. here, the best way would be to apply the volcker rule. the volcker rule, as many people know, prohibits banks, or institutions that own a bank, from engaging in proprietary trading that is not at the behest of their clients, and from owning or investing in a hedge fund or a private equity fund. president obama endorsed the volcker rule four years ago. thirdly, reduce volatility in securities and derivative trading in order to tame herd behaviour. that can be partially achieved by slowing down high frequency trading. here a modest tax or a flat fee, for that matter, applicable on selected securities and derivative transactions can be helpful. in order to preserve liquidity, market makers should be able to gain exemptions as well. as it must be clear to all by now, the ftt is no panacea for curing all problems of banking. we support its limited application only within the framework of a comprehensive and global – and i repeat global – financial sector reform which would strengthen the efficiency and competitiveness of european banking. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
question for the house of commons. in his speech, he mentioned that in hungary, the special taxes imposed by the government had frozen the credit market and thus caused the economy to decline. i would ask you, if you know the figures for 2013, to give me an idea of how much the hungarian economy grew in 2013 and how much the average economy of the european union grew.
answer to a double-edged question if it weren't for this unreasonable, unprofessional banking tax in hungary, we could have achieved three times this economic growth. all options shall be compared with those that would have been available if this had been applied. you know that hungary is almost the only country in eastern europe that has not even reached the gdp of 2005. this is largely due to the blessed activities of your government.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the house of representatives, the optimist sees opportunity in every emergency, the pessimist sees danger in every opportunity. i think churchill summed up the two different types of people well. i am very pleased that the european commission and the council have also started to work on the introduction of a special tax, a transaction tax that can help to implement major european programmes. however, i think it is worth looking at the practices of the member states, for example hungary, where in 2010 a bank tax was introduced, followed by a transaction tax, precisely in order to make the impossible situation caused by eight years of incompetent socialist government in hungary a common burden on the way out of the crisis. i think we should continue to look at how these resources are collected and used, not centrally, but at the level of the member states. this could be more effective.
my fellow members of the house of representatives! the debate on the 2030 climate and energy targets between member states and within the commission seems to have been resolved by a more ambitious 40% emission reduction target, while a more moderate 27% renewable energy target has been set. the material itself acknowledges that in lower income countries, burden sharing at eu level is more costly. for those member states below 90% of the eu average gdp, this means €3 billion in investment, a surplus per country, and therefore needs to be compensated. i also believe it is of the utmost importance that the member states retain full autonomy in defining the energy mix, including nuclear energy and shale gas.
, in writing. - my fellow members of parliament! the union's long-term commitment to climate and energy policy is essential for europe's security of energy supply, economic competitiveness and prosperity. the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the union's climate change policy on the union's climate and energy policies, including the impact of the union's climate and energy policies on the union's climate and energy policies. long-term investment cycles require ambitious targets that provide adequate incentives to deploy low-carbon technologies and strengthen the union's green economy. at the same time, a balance of objectives must be sought, as we cannot ignore the performance of the economy, the evolution of the global energy market and the modest emission reduction ambitions of international actors. taking into account those factors, a binding carbon reduction target for 2030 should be introduced, which takes into account economic realities and the outcome of international climate negotiations. moreover, a greater focus should be placed on striking a balance between ambitious climate objectives and the competitiveness of union industry. this is the only way to avoid the migration of certain strategic industries from europe. finally, in addition to ambition and balance, feasibility must be a key consideration, as member states have different capacities. it is therefore necessary to ensure that climate objectives take into account the performance of member states and do not impose an excessive burden on citizens by incorporating appropriate flexibility tools.
my colleague mr bach has done an excellent job in the field of air passenger rights in recent years. i remember well a few years ago, we had a very difficult discussion about the rights of bus passengers, and it was difficult for me to explain that disabled people and people with reduced mobility are not the same. those are two separate categories. i would like to point out that the european parliament has now clearly recognised the importance of this and is handling the situation well, but the european commission is not. this had to be corrected in the report, for example, in relation to the commission's proposal. now i am pleased to see that in the area of disability rights, there has been a huge advance in passenger rights. providers, whether they are ground-based operators or airlines, have a duty to provide a quality service and to ensure a clear and transparent system of obligations and rights. i welcome the involvement of civil society organisations representing disabled people in this process and i welcome the fact that personalised services are required by law, because this is true equality of opportunity.
mr. president, ladies and gentlemen of the house of representatives, i also thank my friend, our colleague, georg bach, for putting this very important report on our table. with air traffic increasing significantly year on year and forecasts showing that this will continue for decades to come, it is very important that we ensure that passengers are properly transported safely, comfortably and, perhaps most importantly, arrive at their destinations exactly as they are supposed to. it is therefore important to regulate the conditions for compensation to which passengers are entitled as strictly as possible in order to ensure that airlines take the safety and punctuality requirements of travel seriously. i think it's very important that the legislation requires that there be accessible points where passengers can file claims and live with that at airports.
i voted no to the report on the rights of so-called seasonal workers coming from outside the european union to a country in the union, which i consider to be as inhuman and hypocritical as the european union in general. what is it? the right to enter and reside in the european union is granted to workers who can be granted employment by an eu employer for nine months of the year. that's a lot of repetition. and since the principle of non-discrimination is a principle of the union, at least in principle, that worker from outside the union should be paid the same as if he were an employee from within the union. now, either that's a lie, because in reality, the person is a victim of total exploitation, or if not, then, i ask, why doesn't this particular employer choose employees primarily from within his own country, and secondly from within the european union, where we know that unemployment is high?
in writing. - i consider it important that today's proposal will make life easier for third-country workers who take up seasonal work in the union in the future. the acquisition of permits is essentially simplified, as the worker is granted both a work permit and a residence permit. the development of rapid and flexible admission procedures and the clarification of the legal situation of seasonal workers can also be a safeguard against exploitation, which has hitherto posed a serious threat to those working only seasonally in tourism, agriculture or horticulture. finally, i would like to stress that today's proposal will make it easier for transcarpathiaans living in ukraine and hungarians living in serbia to have access to seasonal work opportunities and the necessary work permits and residence permits throughout the union.
in writing. - given the enhanced vulnerability of seasonal workers to exploitation, it is important to have a clear and unambiguous legislative framework of rights and obligations, as well as effective mechanisms to enforce regulations. i would therefore like to welcome the fair compromise introducing a special procedure for third-country nationals applying to reside in the eu for seasonal employment and to define the rights of these seasonal workers. most importantly, the report introduces a fast-track admission procedure with a deadline of 90 days, based on a common definition and common criteria and also covers the re-entry of seasonal workers in a subsequent season, the protection of health, safety and working conditions, as well as the related duties of the employer. another relevant achievement is the reduction of bureaucratic procedures for both the applicants and the employers, with a simultaneous limiting of inappropriate restrictions and conditions governing seasonal work and assuring maximum safeguards for applicants to protect them from illegal forms of exploitation.
in writing. - i welcomed and voted in favour of the report on the ban on imports of atlantic bigeye tuna from bolivia, cambodia, equatorial guinea, georgia and sierra leone. it is important to note that the iccat measures to control the fishing and trade in tuna in particular of valuable species such as bluefin tuna and bigeye tuna and the fisheries and trade in these fisheries deserve increased attention, as their current complexity shows that illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing is still a significant factor in the atlantic fisheries for tuna and tuna-like species. first of all, i would like to point out that the regulation in question was born in the 1990s, when iccat was at the forefront of the fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing, even before that term was generally accepted. at that time, iccat pioneered innovative measures and introduced a ban on imports from countries suspected of allowing vessels flying their flag to flout international rules and standards. iccat was the first or at least one of the first to blacklist vessels caught in illegal or unlawful fishing. i believe that this chapter, which is a key part of the international fight against undeclared and unregulated fishing, deserves a thorough analysis.
in writing. - i find the report supportive as it initiates the exchange of best practice in member states on natural disaster risks, geography and climate and draws attention to the fact that natural and man-made disasters require different types of insurance and belong to two different insurance markets and therefore cannot be treated together, even though in some cases human decisions increase exposure to natural disaster risk. the report also calls on member states and public authorities to take appropriate preventive measures to mitigate the consequences of natural disasters, which can be particularly useful in the event of disasters such as the red-soap floods or other natural disasters that have unfortunately already occurred in hungary.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the candidate, as i had the opportunity to see in person at the hearings of the committee on economic and monetary affairs his professional qualities and the important work he is doing as vice-chairman of the supervisory board of the european central bank in the context of the review of banks and the future supervisory role of the banking union.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the agreement on competition law with the swiss confederation, which includes provisions on the exchange of evidence obtained by competition authorities, which will help to ensure that competition rules are enforced more effectively. switzerland is the eu's third largest economic partner and the second largest recipient of foreign direct investment, and it is therefore of the utmost importance for the eu to address anticompetitive practices that hinder crossborder trade in order to facilitate foreign investment as soon as possible, including through this treaty.
in writing. - the european union has already concluded a number of competition law agreements with its main trading partners. the agreement with switzerland is broader than the previous ones, as it includes provisions for the exchange of evidence obtained by the competition authorities investigating specific cases. i support any solution which is a trick of the multinational companies and which can be an effective weapon against cartels and abuse of power, including this agreement.
in writing. - i welcome the proposal for european union cooperation agreements on the implementation of competition policy. it is important to note that following the competition cooperation agreements with the united states, canada, japan and south korea, the commission agreed an initial second generation agreement with switzerland. i believe that international cooperation is urgently needed to enforce competition rules, because i too believe that anticompetitive behaviour is a non-tariff barrier to trade. i also believe, on the basis of the above reasoning, that increased efforts to promote international cooperation in the fight against anti-competitive practices are essential for the regulation of trade and foreign investment and for the creation of a level playing field.
in writing. - i am convinced, in full accordance with the motion, that respect for human rights is the basis of the common values on which the european union is founded and that, under the treaties, trade policy should contribute to respect for human rights as part of the eu's external action. i fully support the aim of the treaty to establish uniform international standards at the highest possible level in order to contribute to international and regional peace, security and stability and to reduce human suffering. it is therefore imperative that the obligation for member states to establish national systems for the control of arms transfers, as set out in the report, is implemented. in my view, calling on the eu and its member states to provide support to third countries that need help in meeting their obligations and allocating €5.2 million to the voluntary fund set up by the treaty are necessary and effective steps towards greater security.
in writing. - the arms trade is the second largest business in the world, slightly behind the pharmaceutical industry. certain types of weapons, such as weapons of mass destruction, anti-personnel mines, have legally binding global restrictions. an international treaty to restrict the trade in conventional arms was developed and adopted by the un in april 2013. this report shall invite the member states to sign the relevant treaty. fortunately, there is still a minimum of national leeway, or at least the appearance of it, in international legal acts. of course, i support the fight against illegal arms trafficking, but are legally sold weapons more humane?
in writing. - i voted in favour of the recommendation for a council decision authorising member states to sign the arms trade treaty in the interests of the european union, as i consider it important to note that, unlike weapons of mass destruction and anti-personnel mines, the trade in conventional weapons is not regulated by a legally binding global instrument. the arms trade treaty aims to fill this gap by adopting the most stringent arms trade regulations. it should be emphasised that the att sets uniform international standards to regulate international trade in conventional arms and, to some extent, ammunition and arms parts and components. the treaty also aims to prevent and eliminate the illicit trade in such weapons. i welcome the fact that the treaty prevents the illicit trade in arms, international terrorism and organised crime and limits serious violations of international human rights norms and international humanitarian law. i also support the rapporteur on the importance of respecting the terms of the contract.
in writing. - the eu economy is the most open economy in the world. more and more people are trying to take advantage of this, resorting to dishonest practices. unfortunately, we are increasingly seeing imports that are being dumped or illegally subsidized. these prohibited activities cause serious distortions in the markets for raw materials and energy in particular. in my view, trade defence instruments should be designed to be able to deter all unfair trade practices. that is why i support the involvement of smes in the initiation of dumping proceedings. however, i do not agree with the exemption of goods on the road from the penalty duty. the anti-dumping and anti-subsidy duty should be extended to shipments on the way to the place of unloading and traders should be deterred from unfair practices. a lower level of the penalty duty corresponding to the injury suffered by the union industry and therefore not containing a retaliatory element should not be applied in cases where the sector concerned is directly exposed to a threat. this includes activities that could distort the commodity and energy markets and i voted accordingly.
in writing. - the eu is back on the horse. for the first time, it allowed, and even encouraged, the export of technological knowledge accumulated in europe to third countries in the interest of profit at all costs. now he's fighting the imports from there under a dumping regime. the history of western europe is one of extremes: slave labor, colonization, war. organic, ethical, sustainable development has no roots. i'm sure there's no intention. yet, to protect the few remaining jobs in my poor, eu-oppressed, colonized country, i must support this distorted solution.
in writing. - the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon on 1 december 2009 and the redefinition of competences contained therein require adaptation of european legislation, which entails a reorganisation of the competences conferred on the european commission under the previous comitology procedure. in no case does the adjustment imply the transfer of the co-decision powers of parliament, but on the contrary, in the case of the procedure for delegated acts, it implies the conferral on parliament of new powers of ex post control or even new powers of co-decision. at this stage, when parliament has to share its powers with the european commission or with the european commission and the experts from the member states, the question of the governance of the eu institutions needs to be thoroughly examined. moreover, although circumstances and the shortness of time may require a strong response and may therefore justify the conferral of powers on the commission also in respect of non-essential provisions, delegated acts may in no case alter the spirit of the act, which remains subject to the codecision procedure. this logic makes it all the more necessary for parliament and the council to be vigilant, since these institutions must limit potentially significant transfers of power through effective, systematic and effective controls.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the rapporteur's and the commission's proposal, in support of which i would like to state the following reasons. the report sets out some of the principles to be respected in line with the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon on 1 december 2009 and the new definition of competences contained therein, in the light of which parliament exercises its scrutiny of legislative acts. first of all, i support the idea that the european commission should ensure that when adopting legal acts, it guarantees the safety of seafarers, chooses the least complex and most economically efficient scenario and takes into account the three pillars of sustainable development. i consider it of the utmost importance to point out that this adjustment does not in any way imply the transfer of the co-decision powers of parliament, but on the contrary, in the case of the procedure for delegated acts, the conferral on parliament of new powers of ex post control or even new powers of co-decision. i also welcome the point in the proposal which calls attention to the need for parliament and the council to be vigilant, since these institutions must limit the potential for significant power transfers through effective, systematic and effective controls. i am convinced that the proposed implementing acts on the marking and identification of vessels, fishing gear and watercraft, the proper installation and use of satellite tracking devices and the consideration of cost-effectiveness and efficiency are all common objectives.
in writing. - standardization is needed in all economic areas to achieve the unification of technical indicators. this is particularly true when it comes to occupational safety, and even more so when it comes to the regulation of activities in particularly hazardous conditions. the protection of my employees is of the utmost importance to me under all circumstances. to do that, you have to take on some extra administration.
in writing. - mining and certain industries routinely use explosives. there were regulations before. a provision has now been developed to facilitate a more transparent and uniform implementation of technical standards. such harmonisation contributes to raising the standard of protection of life and property. it also has an aspect of improving safety and working conditions. it is useful and appropriate and therefore to be supported. i don't feel that there's any danger of national jurisdiction being taken away.
in writing. - more and more people, unfortunately, are barely leaving their homes and surrounding themselves with all kinds of electrical and electronic devices. but that's what most of us are surrounded by in the workplace. well, what's electric, electronic is also electromagnetic. after you've worked for it, bought it, and brought it home, you want it to work properly and not interfere with the proper operation of other devices in your environment. this is indicated by the marking ce on it. i would strongly recommend that everyone get back to nature as much as possible, get back to the natural and avoid using unnecessary devices. but i also have to protect those who can't or won't make it happen.
in writing. - inconsistent implementation and enforcement of existing eu harmonisation legislation in the member states and complex regulation have made it increasingly difficult for both economic operators and authorities to interpret and apply the legislation correctly, leading to unequal market conditions and the placing on the market of unsafe products. i voted in favour of this harmonisation package because i am convinced that the merchandise package provides a comprehensive framework for the rationalisation of product legislation. the new legislative framework introduces a simplified regulatory environment for products and allows for a more uniform implementation of technical standards, which will help improve the functioning of the single market by ensuring equal treatment of non-compliant products and economic operators and equal assessment of notified bodies across the union market. i believe that the alignment of the nine product directives to this new legislative framework will also increase confidence of both producers and consumers, as it clarifies the obligations of operators and gives member state authorities more effective tools to carry out market surveillance checks, all of which will lead to the withdrawal of non-compliant and unsafe products from the market.
in writing. - the european parliament has done an excellent job in the field of air passenger rights in recent years. the hard work of the tran and imco committees has led to a significant increase in the protection of disabled people, for example in the area of passenger rights, and to their inclusion in a number of areas, taking into account their special needs. i voted in favour of the report. i think it's a worthy addition to the existing regulations.
in writing. - flying has become incredibly popular in recent years, thanks in large part to the advent of charter airlines. but this development was not without its wild spots. based on the experience of the last 10 years, it is appropriate to adjust the regulatory environment. the consequences of the bankruptcies of spanair and malév are also reflected in the material. the report shall include changes that are beneficial to air passengers in a number of respects, within a framework that can be considered reasonable. as with all positive things in consumer protection, i supported this. i have questions about the malév bankruptcy, but not in the context of this story.
mr president, what we have been seeing in ukraine should certainly be familiar to those with long memories – memories of 1968 – as the demonstrators in euromaidan in kiev are doing much the same. they have launched a popular movement against the heirs of communism, just as in 1968 the youth of that time revolted against their elders because they saw them as tainted by nazism, fascism and colonialism. the hard reality is that, decades after the end of communism, the old party nomenklatura is alive and well and rebranded as democrats, although they really have nothing in common with democracy. so let us not be surprised that yanukovych in ukraine, and those like him elsewhere in the former communist world, have become the targets for those who want what europe still stands for: democracy, the rule of law and human dignity. maybe this is the time to act, react and impact.
the crisis in ukraine is the greatest threat since the cold war to the renewal of the traditional east-west confrontation, according to opinion polls. the final division of ukraine also entails the division of europe and is a crossroads on the road to european integration. the evil legacy of soviet communism is geopolitical imperialism, which continues to regard the former soviet states as russian territory and thus stands in the way of european reunification. in contrast to the rusticated east and south, western ukraine chose the european path. naturally, not only the ukrainians but also the hungarian and romanian national communities living here wanted to be free from the russian imperial sphere of interest. we must support the democratic transition in ukraine and its accession to the european union with full solidarity and without conditions.
i would like to add to the statement made by my colleague mr tőki that we are naturally asking for and demanding the right of the indigenous national communities of transcarpathia, the hungarians in particular, to national self-determination, to territorial autonomy or to another form of autonomy. isn't that right, congressman? and now i turn to my fellow left-wing mps, who as human rights advocates have been a pleasure to listen to in their commitment to police violence, now in the ukraine debate. i ask you to pick up your phone this afternoon and call your brothers and sisters in hungary and demand that they immediately cease cooperation with ferenc gyurcsány, who in 2006.... (the president is requested to speak)
in writing. the seizure of power by armed rebels last march triggered a serious crisis of confidence and a series of bloody clashes in the central african republic. the clash between the peaceful muslim and christian communities has cost thousands of lives. the seleka coalition, which came to power in 2009, has been led by muslim militants, many of whom are foreign rebels, who have targeted the country's christian majority, committed war crimes against them, destroyed their mosques and churches, and indiscriminately killed children, the elderly, women and men. thus, a veritable religious war has developed out of a bloody conflict rooted in social politics. only the reconciliation of the two communities can bring lasting peace to the region. i therefore welcome the decision of the european union to provide 500 troops to the un and african union peacekeeping forces. the unity of the central african republic will be threatened if we do not act immediately to end the rampant violence, if we do not protect the victims of religious hatred and if we do not achieve respect for fundamental human rights. i therefore propose that the eu provide a framework for religious reconciliation between the christian and muslim communities, contributing to lasting peace by promoting justice.
my fellow members of parliament! there's a campaign in europe, but it's good to avoid losing our sense of reality. it would be good to see a realistic picture of the real room for manoeuvre in the european union. it would be senseless to start a new cold war with russia. i agree with all the criticisms that have been made here. but the future of the eu cannot be shaped against russia. we cannot ignore the geopolitical realities. there is no alternative to the realistic, sustainable and mutually beneficial strategic relationship that mr lambsdorff and mr brok have so wrongly discussed here. in the case of ukraine instead of all the texts that are here the leaders of the union should finally sit down with russia, involving the ukrainian government and the opposition parties, because as we are talking here, a country of 60 million is falling apart near the european union and this is our real responsibility!
mr president, i wonder whether members are aware that macedonia received formal candidate status almost ten years ago. no progress has been made since then. it is a shame for the eu that a small country which has made considerable progress in most areas of economic and political development is not allowed to advance on the road to eu accession. it is a shame and a huge mistake. the eu should make its financial assistance to greece conditional on the reversal of the greek position. mr venizelos, you should release macedonia from the prison of greek politics. the eu has made a huge mistake in the case of ukraine and we are seeing the consequences. do not support the centrifugal forces within macedonia by denying progress to this small, and still peaceful, multi-ethnic society.
mr president, i share the concern of many of my colleagues with regard to the lack of long-term vision and progress that still hampers a fully-functioning state in bosnia and herzegovina. although i welcome the reduction in the backlog of war crimes cases, i would like to underline the necessity to improve the prosecution of cases related to sexual violence. i appreciate that the commission unblocked a large amount of funding for cases related to transitional justice and war crimes through the ip instruments, but i would like to know how much will be used to help the local associations of women helping victims of sexual violence. these crimes remain largely denied or unpunished, while they have lasting and damaging effects, both physically and psychologically. we therefore need not only a comprehensive and victim-oriented approach, but also the political will and financial means to prosecute the perpetrators of such hateful crimes. when it comes to women’s rights, the issue of trafficking in human beings, especially for the purposes of sexual exploitation, remains a cause of great concern and i strongly hope that newly-adopted action plans will swiftly produce… (the president cut off the speaker)
in writing. while montenegro has already temporarily closed two accession chapters, bosnia has no chance of moving from one to two without a political and social consensus surrounding accession. the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, as a candidate country, has been waiting for eight years for negotiations to begin. i consider it important that the european union continues to support the western balkan countries in their preparations for accession. one good example of this is the fact that croatia handed over the full trial documentation to montenegro. in bosnia, active european mediation is needed to bring the constituent entities of the country to an agreement on amending the discriminatory constitution. it would be a great achievement of the current greek presidency of the eu to reach an agreement on the name dispute with the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. the situation of press freedom in all three countries is a cause for concern. laws severely curtailing freedom of the press and expression were passed in the former yugoslav republic of macedonia late last year. although parliament has since amended some of the contested provisions, the legislation still does not fully meet international expectations. it is also unacceptable that in montenegro intimidation and physical abuse of journalists is not uncommon and that the perpetrators are not held accountable. i ask the commission and the member states to take a firm stand in defence of press freedom and to make the countries concerned aware that full guarantee of fundamental rights is a condition not only for accession but also for the opening and continuation of negotiations.
madam president, despite the growing recognition of the problem from the global health community, as well as from national authorities, the figures remain staggering – both inside and outside the eu. this represents not only a blatant violation of the most fundamental rights of women and girls on multiple counts, but also a serious cause for concern regarding their health and a major barrier to women’s empowerment. the deeply rooted social traditions behind this harmful practice make it particularly difficult to address. it also calls for greater improvements in terms of education, prevention and dialogue with all stakeholders. several successful programmes, including those launched by the eu with unicef, show that a comprehensive approach, based on dialogue and backed by genuine political will, have produced encouraging results. now is the time to step up efforts and to incorporate the elimination of female genital mutilation into a broader action plan on combating gender-based violence. in this respect, and given the lack of reliable data at eu level, i welcome the fact that the eu institute for gender equality is developing resources and tools to tackle female genital mutilation. i also believe that we have to be extremely tough towards healthcare providers who engage in such practices, and that the principle of extraterritoriality applied in some member states – which makes it possible to prosecute the practice, even when it is committed outside the countries’ borders – should be extended. i would just like to thank commissioner füle for being here and for the excellent job he has done as a commissioner. i believe that he should come back because we need an engaged guy like him.
madam president, while we need more sustainable and diversified means of transport, improving the development of european inland waterway transport is crucial, especially for freight. in this respect, the naiades ii programme is essential. we know that this sector has largely suffered from the crisis and that the navigability of european waterways, as well as the development of efficient intermodal systems, can and needs to be improved. i share the views of my colleagues that, despite the interesting proposals included in the communication, a clearer and more comprehensive global strategy is still needed. bottlenecks along the inland waterway network need to be resolved. integration into a genuine intermodal system and access to finance and sufficient funding for projects from the connecting europe facility (cef) and horizon 2020 are also essential. dear commissioner, i strongly believe that an ambitious strategy for inland waterways transport can be a strong lever for green growth, innovation and development that would also boost regional and cross-border cooperation. let us work together to improve this programme and make sure it is fully implemented.
in writing. - i voted in favour of amending the regulation, which has been the subject of tremendous demand over the past few years from law enforcement agencies, including enforcement, regulatory bodies and airlines. the amendment was also prompted by legislative decisions of the european court of justice, for example on the obligation to pay compensation for significant delays. i think it is very important that the rights of passengers, including compensation, be regulated as precisely as possible so that they are also properly respected by airlines. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the transport of dangerous goods by road, rail and inland waterway. the regulatory uncertainty has caused many inconveniences to passengers.
in writing. - i did not support the own-initiative report of parliament on the 2030 climate and energy package because the amendments adopted by the plenary resulted in a decision that does not take into account the competitiveness of individual member states, the achievements of the member states in terms of reducing emissions and the performance of european industry. in my view, the realistic regulatory path would have been to define a headline emission reduction target, which would have allowed member states the flexibility to implement it, including full autonomy in defining and shaping the energy mix, as proposed by the european commission. in my view, the best way to reconcile climate policy objectives with competitiveness considerations is to focus on the transition to a low-carbon economy rather than pushing for different solutions and targets, such as reducing emissions, energy efficiency and making renewable energy competitive.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposals for a framework for climate and energy policy for 2030. i am convinced that the eu attaches great importance to the climate objectives, sustainable development, security of energy supply, economic and technological competitiveness and the achievement of the single energy market. my view, which is consistent with the motion, is that environmental factors affect human health and that the objectives of the union's energy policy should therefore include the functioning of the energy market, security of (energy) supply, energy efficiency, energy saving and that the union's environmental policy should contribute to preserving, protecting and improving the quality of the environment. i also welcome the linking of climate and energy policies for 2030 to climate change for social and economic recovery and sustainable growth, and the careful consideration of pressing economic and social issues such as energy security, high energy costs for industry and households, the need for job creation and economic recovery and the transition to a sustainable growth model. i therefore fully support the measures envisaged in the motion, both in terms of environmental protection and in economic and social terms.
in writing. - as chief whip, my duty is to ensure the integrity of the people's party group's voting, which is reflected in the fact that i am the one who sets the position for the whole people's party group during the plenary votes. however, the hungarian people's party delegation is actively working to promote the interests of our country, and we represent our own national interests in the european parliament, so it happens that the position of the hungarian fidesz-kdnp delegation differs from the people's party position. in order not to be contradicted by my duty as vice-president in the vote on the 2030 framework for climate and energy policies, when the group voted differently from the hungarian members in the nominal votes, i did not participate directly in the vote. i did not press the ballot button, but i did raise my hand to indicate to the pp group the voting position that had been agreed upon previously.
in writing. - this report, which focuses on the fourth and final pillar of banking union, namely bank resolution, deserves our full support, as it is in the common interest of european citizens that the banking supervision system, the insurance guarantee systems and the european system of financial supervision should be replaced by a common resolution mechanism in the event of a bank failure. the forthcoming single resolution fund for banks, which is estimated to have €55 billion at the end of the 10-year transition, could be considered a well-founded reserve. the ten-year transition period may seem a bit long, so it would be worthwhile to build a separate financial safety net. we are not clear about that yet, so the framework remains the same. so in the event of a bank failure, the banks will first try to recapitalize themselves internally, then the national resolution funds will come, and finally, as a last resort, the esm will still be available, which will be able to recapitalize banks directly at some point in the future. the optimal solution would in any case be to create a fully autonomous, independent fund at the end of the 10-year transition period, to which the banks would contribute and which would operate at the rate of the contributions paid, relieving the taxpayers of the burden of the failing banks. the objective that should be set in the negotiations with the council is to separate the sick banks from the healthy ones and to protect the taxpayers.
in writing. - many people have worked very hard to falsify european history, but it is clear from the archaeological findings that culture, technology and science came from the east to the west, which today considers itself developed, thanks to the people who were in the middle, the scythians, sumerians, huns. the kiev region has also long been uplifted by the settlement of the steppe's early christian peoples. today, most of these peoples are called slavs. according to their orthodox christian calendar, the year is 7523. is it not serious after all the threats and lectures from the eu officials to ukraine and russia? what european values and democracy are spoken of by those who in 10 years have destroyed and colonized central europe, by those whose countries have been shaken by slave labor and the plundering of continents. let the citizens of ukraine decide their own fate.
in writing. - in syria, the legitimate government has been fighting for two years by armed groups, mostly foreign mercenaries. some of these are young people who have been misled by religious fanaticism straight from europe. their weapons are largely us and eu-made. the salaries are paid by or through arab dictatorships. most of their victims are civilians. in recent times, the main targets of destruction have been the representatives of the most ancient civilizations, those who speak jesus' language, aramaic. and wherever possible, they destroy thousands of years of temples and cultural monuments. if europe were truly christian, it would not allow its brothers and sisters and its past to be destroyed and it would not manufacture words but would immediately end its support for the mercenaries. and then he would find and punish those responsible, at least the europeans.
in writing. - almost every child knows that the arab revolutions did not just happen, but were made possible by serious foreign intervention to achieve complex goals. what they failed to achieve in syria, the overthrow of the legitimate government, they achieved in egypt. the situation is complicated, but essentially the military is fighting against its own citizens, not foreign mercenaries. bloodshed follows bloodshed. therefore, any initiative by the eu to resolve the situation is warranted. but this resolution is little more than nothing. we should freeze funding and arms shipments here as well.
in writing. - in a nutshell, i'd say the meeting was brief and uninteresting. more broadly, the european external action service has failed in diplomacy, failing to work with russia and the eu's eastern neighbourhood to develop solutions that would allow the eu's economic area to coexist with the eurasian union and the customs union. brics countries are achieving significant economic gains, often with unfortunate environmental and social damage. the european union can boast of small economic gains, but enormous damage to societies and nations. we should find common ground with the russians until they get tired of the primitivity of eu bureaucrats who are supposed to be serving the interests of european citizens, not the us interests, as they are doing now. the resolution is colourless.
in writing. - limited progress has been made regarding roma communities, who still live in very vulnerable conditions. the legislation on harmonising civil registration and the steps taken to improve housing conditions are to be welcomed. however, the situation of roma in relation to health, employment and education remains fragile. government policies must better reflect the needs of roma communities, in line with the eu framework for national roma inclusion strategies, as well as the council recommendations adopted in december 2013. many roma children are still not registered at birth, and therefore cannot attend school and have no health insurance. furthermore, organised child begging remains an issue of concern. so both entities must pay particular attention to the situation of roma children and women.
in writing. - if you believe the resolution, you've given a country that for 20 years has been unable to find a name acceptable to the eu. and the state and the legal economy are almost entirely negative. at the same time, there is a european union whose functioning is dissatisfying to most of its citizens, whose currency is unstable, whose unemployment rate is steadily rising and whose development is sustained by the colonization of new countries by multinational companies from the old member states. it's hard for a sane person to make a workable design out of this, so the modifier is good, which says they can join permanently as soon as their gdp reaches the eu average.
in writing. - if you believe the resolution, you've given a country that for 20 years has been unable to find a name acceptable to the eu. and the state and the legal economy are almost entirely negative. at the same time, there is a european union whose functioning is dissatisfying to most of its citizens, whose currency is unstable, whose unemployment rate is steadily rising and whose development is sustained by the colonization of new countries by multinational companies from the old member states. it's hard for a sane person to make a workable design out of this, so the modifier is good, which says they can join permanently as soon as their gdp reaches the eu average.
in writing. - authorities must take further measures to combat discrimination, improve the living conditions of roma and their access to social security, health, education, housing and employment services, and ensure their proper participation in public services. the commission must therefore urge montenego to sign up to the european framework for national roma inclusion strategies by launching and submitting a 10-year national inclusion strategy after the expiry of the current strategy to improve the status of the roma and egyptian (rae) population. the government must further reinforce the legal framework and promote stronger measures to prevent and combat human trafficking, as well as to strengthen the capacities of law-enforcement and judicial authorities dealing with human trafficking, and to reinforce the identification and protection of victims, especially children and women. gender equality legislation must also be properly enforced with particular regard to the recently adopted strategy for implementing the law on protection from family violence. the ombudsman’s capacity in relation to children’s rights and those of the council on the rights of the child must be enhanced.
in writing. - we finally got to read a success story. montenegro is able to show significantly better results than the other two former yugoslav regions discussed today, and even albania. and the european union has never been worse economically, financially, socially. so the two levels are coming together dynamically. i would prefer to be in the position of the montenegrins and look for other economic cooperation areas. they may not know it yet, but they can only wash dishes in a viennese pastry shop, like us hungarians. which, admittedly, is a little different from the original promise of our own bakery in vienna.
i think this is something that we're going to be reinforcing, actually tracking, in the sense of justice in society. i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place on tuesday 25 february 2014. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
the next item is the debate on the report on the european agency for law enforcement cooperation and training (europol) prepared by the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (com(2013) 0173 - c7-0094/2013-2013/0091 (cod)) (a7-0096/2014)
i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place on tuesday 25 february 2014. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
in writing. the proposal for a regulation by mr agustín díaz de mera, which aims to bring europol's activities into line with the treaty of lisbon by establishing the legal framework for europol's operation in the regulation. establishing a mechanism to facilitate the european parliament, together with national parliaments, to improve and monitor europol's accountability to european citizens. i believe it is important to ensure that europol employs trained it specialists who can effectively compete against fast-moving and global cybercrime such as tax fraud, child pornography or trafficking in illegal goods. the commission has proposed merging the two eu agencies, europol and cepolt (european police college), on the grounds of synergies and savings, but this suggestion seems to me to be lacking in sound and substantiated arguments. i myself am opposed to the merger of cepol with europol, as the objectives and tasks of these two organisations are very different. it is no coincidence that the european council also did not support the merger and, by its decision last october, designated budapest as the next headquarters of cepol. hungary will provide highly favourable conditions for the efficient and sovereign functioning of the european police college. i am therefore pleased that at the libe committee meeting last week, a large majority agreed to the transfer of cepol to budapest.
the next item is the debate on the report on the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals (com ((2013) 0151) - c7-0080/2013 - 2013/0081 (cod)) (a7-0377/2013) prepared by the committee on citizens' rights, home affairs and justice on behalf of the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights.
one of our western european colleagues from the liberal benches pointed out that we, as a group of european volunteers, on the one hand, and as europeans in general, should be proud to march under the flag of the european union, and he remarked with disdain that we, as eu sceptics or eu realists, do not like such things. i'm asking you to come to hungary with me. i'll take you to a factory or a factory, or maybe a food chain owned by western europeans, where hungarian people are working for 250 euros a month in total disfranchisement. tell them to march with their heads held high under the flag of the european union. i'm very curious to see the results. good luck trying it out. (the intervener agrees to answer a question referred for a preliminary ruling (article 149 (8) of the rules of procedure). )
that's a two-card answer. i thank my colleague very much and ask the very few members present to bear witness to the fact that i was serious about this invitation. not in the usual way, although i'd be happy to show you the wonderful budapest baths, the cafes, the opera house, but i'd like to take you to factories, western-owned assembly plants, and for example tesco - if i understand you are english - or other chains of shops where i say people work for 250 euros, and i would like you to talk to these people and persuade them to march under the eu flag.
the austrian government has turned to the european commission over the land dispute and is asking for protection for those who have illegally acquired land in hungary. ten years ago, the new member states, including hungary, were given the opportunity to defend their own land, but everyone knew that the treaties signed at the time were made in violation of these rules. the measure of every state is how much it can enforce its own laws. the hungarian state has been weak for a long time, but in the past it has made it clear that it will not accept illegally concluded, fake contracts signed during the prohibition, and the fraudsters had the opportunity to step back in time, but they did not. the european commission must protect the rule of law, not the law-breaking speculators, and to this end, the hungarian land law will come into force.
while the european union is pouring out tons of documents on violence against women and trafficking in women, the police in many member states are showing a shocking indifference. the hungarian police chief refused to allow hungarian police to receive training on the subject. and i'd like to ask the officer about another matter, which happens to be related to the outrageous attitude of the austrian police. when hungarian women go to austria to work and then disappear there under mysterious circumstances, months later the austrian police are still unwilling to open an investigation on suspicion of a crime, even though it is clear that there should be not only suspicion but also a presumption of a violent crime against women or trafficking in women. do you know about this practice, what you think about it, and what you want to do about it?
the rapporteur. - this parliament adopts a great many reports, including many own-initiative reports, which are then virtually unread, uninformed and unaddressed by their authors. the report that's on the agenda now, i hope it's not like that. and not because it's some really great report or because i made it, but because it's actually a self-help book. a handbook for all colleagues who meet other institutions, the council, the commission, in the course of legislation, negotiations, or trialogue. the lisbon treaty introduced a new rule on the control of the european commission long ago, under which parliament acquired the same rights as the council when it exercised control over the commission. the old comitology procedure has been replaced by delegated and implementing acts. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council. what this means is that when this parliament adopts a legislative report, it normally loses its influence in the areas where it has delegated powers to the executive body, the european commission. that was the case in the past, but today our colleagues, the rapporteurs, the european parliament itself, can retain its influence within the framework of this procedure, within the details of the delegation procedure, and can withdraw this delegation from the european commission if it does not like some of the legislation. of course, the delegation is an important thing, because parliament cannot deal with every detail. we decide which issues we delegate to the european commission and which we want to deal with ourselves. of course, although the treaty of lisbon has long since entered into force, the full transposition of legislation in this area has not yet taken place. and my colleagues, when they negotiate with the council, with the european commission, when they consult with the trialogue, very often see that the council regrets having inserted such passages in the treaty of lisbon, that it has given parliament the opportunity to exercise control. this is often the case, but i think that in the context of cooperation, and we would like to see this report adopted not only by parliament but also by the council itself, we could finally establish a standard procedure whereby we do not have to re-establish the rules every time, because very often at the end of negotiations they say that these are technical issues, we should not deal with them now, we should not deal with these issues anymore, we should agree on them. parliament, and my fellow members, that is the essence of this report and that is what this report is giving guidance to my fellow members cannot give up its right of further scrutiny. he must insist on these matters in order to maintain control in the future. we must not adopt legislation which, and we will adopt tomorrow the three omnibus reports which the commission has presented to us, transposes these rules into the rest of the legislation, but we must not adopt legislation which does not comply with them. ladies and gentlemen, i would like to conclude by saying that unfortunately we have not been able to reach an agreement with the council, there has been no agreement at first reading in this case. that is a task for the next parliament.
first of all, i would like to congratulate the speakers, because they have done an excellent job and all three reports that form the basis of today's high-level debate very well define the european semester. of course, i would first of all like to thank mr cofferati for his cooperation and for having made it possible to produce a report in our committee which makes a fine illustration of the shortcomings of the internal market. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and to monitor the implementation of the new rules. i am also pleased that we were able to point out that the previous report on the internal market had major shortcomings. as the debate and the heat of the debate show, there's more to it than that. it is about how we can achieve the common objective in the context of the european semester. i welcome the council's resolution which stated that the efforts of the member states should be supported along the lines of the priorities. my fellow members of the house of representatives! i have vivid memories of 2010, of the heavy legacy that the previous government left to the current hungarian government, and the memory of how we received no support, only strong criticism, when we took individual steps to solve the problem. but i am glad that our efforts have borne fruit, and that this has now been recognised by the european union. i would like to draw the attention of commissioner andor to the fact that cooperation is also about the commission taking account of reports drawn up in parliament and the things that are requested in it, and also about reporting on the effects of implementation, involving national parliaments. i think that no one doubts the good intentions of the european commission, but democratic control is also needed in this respect. the internal market is a huge opportunity, and as my colleagues have said, it is a question of action, and i think we have set the course well.
in writing. the most important element of the european semester is based on changing economic strategies. this should cover employment, the economy and the budget. the only way forward is to promote the single market, economic growth, employment, job creation and reducing unemployment, rather than austerity, which is a hindrance to development. low wages and pensions are not going to get the economy back to growth. the european economy is still in danger, not in a shaken place. to be competitive, the eu must invest in research, education and new technologies. this requires the cooperation of all member states, not just the efforts of those in difficulty to put things right. each member state must share the burden. it is therefore necessary to establish a common european financing to repair the damage caused by the restrictions. it is important to strengthen the position of the parliaments of the member states in the european semester, in order to highlight the consequences of the social and economic crisis. this will contribute to sustainable economic growth, primarily through improving the quality of employment and raising social standards.
in writing. - four years ago, the treaty of lisbon entered into force, bringing major changes to the legal order of the european union. the treaty made the european parliament a co-legislator on an equal footing with the council and gave it a greater role vis-à-vis the european commission. parliament and the council, the two european legislatures, cannot deal with every detail on their own. however, parliament should have extensive powers of scrutiny in respect of the powers delegated to the european commission. the new legal system gives parliament very wide powers. we need to make it clear to the other eu institutions that the ep stands firmly for its rights and insists on maintaining control. this means that directly elected representatives can now, with the power of parliament and the power of legislation, control and veto the implementing decisions and decisions taken by the european commission.
in writing. - four years ago, the treaty of lisbon entered into force, bringing major changes to the legal order of the european union. the treaty made the european parliament a co-legislator on an equal footing with the council and gave it a greater role vis-à-vis the european commission. parliament and the council, the two european legislatures, cannot deal with every detail on their own. however, parliament should have extensive powers of scrutiny in respect of the powers delegated to the european commission. the new legal system gives parliament very wide powers. we need to make it clear to the other eu institutions that the ep stands firmly for its rights and insists on maintaining control. this means that directly elected representatives can now, with the power of parliament and the power of legislation, control and veto the implementing decisions and decisions taken by the european commission.
in writing. - four years ago, the treaty of lisbon entered into force, bringing major changes to the legal order of the european union. the treaty made the european parliament a co-legislator on an equal footing with the council and gave it a greater role vis-à-vis the european commission. parliament and the council, the two european legislatures, cannot deal with every detail on their own. however, parliament should have extensive powers of scrutiny in respect of the powers delegated to the european commission. the new legal system gives parliament very wide powers. we need to make it clear to the other eu institutions that the ep stands firmly for its rights and insists on maintaining control. this means that directly elected representatives can now, with the power of parliament and the power of legislation, control and veto the implementing decisions and decisions taken by the european commission.
in writing. - the austrian government's nominee was heard by the european parliament's committee on budgetary control on 17 february 2014. following the hearing in committee, a majority of meps voted by secret ballot to support the appointment of the austrian nominee as a member of the court of auditors. the people's party working group and the group of the european people's party approved this decision and in the february 2014 plenary vote, the people's party meps supported the nomination of oskar herics as a candidate for the european court of auditors.
in writing. - the community trade mark system, which promotes the differentiation of goods and services, is a successful european instrument that has been in existence for more than 15 years and should be revised in order to further increase its effectiveness. the agency, known as the office for harmonization in the internal market, is a key element of the system, with a continuously expanding remit. so we need to rethink the agency's governance rules, and we need to come up with a new name that's more user-friendly. the report also provides further guarantees of the agency's independence. it also provides for the possibility of reviewing the charges to be paid by users.
in writing. - i welcome the directive which seeks to harmonise the member states' freezing and confiscation systems at eu level with regard to proceeds of crime (e.g. forfeiture of valuables, extended confiscation, non-conviction based confiscation and third party confiscation) by laying down minimum rules. this will strengthen mutual trust and effective cross-border cooperation between member states in order to combat organised crime (including mafia-type criminal organisations) as effectively as possible. one of the most effective methods of law enforcement is to identify and confiscate the means and profits used in the commission of crime. in these cases, extended confiscation provisions prove to be a very effective tool.
in writing. - the proposal strengthens the harmonisation of the member states' trade mark laws. the updating of the member states' trade mark systems will, among other things, open up the european union to action against counterfeit products. this will introduce further measures to ensure consumer safety in the internal market and strengthen the competitiveness of european businesses.
in writing. - i would like to congratulate my colleague augustin diaz de mera on his report, which i voted in favour of. the report will make europol an institution better equipped to face the challenges of a europe without borders in the future and to help member states to protect their external borders against all forms of organised crime. an important element of the decision is that it opposes the merger of the police academy (cepol) and europol, contrary to the position of the european commission, and reaffirms the need for the two institutions to operate independently of each other. all of which underscores the importance of police training without compromising the work of either institution.
in writing. - the commission has proposed merging the two eu agencies, europol and cepol (european police college), citing synergies and savings, but this reference lacks, in my view, sound and substantiated arguments. i myself am opposed to the merger of cepol with europol, as the objectives and tasks assigned to them by these two organisations are very different. it is no coincidence that the european council also did not support the merger and, by its decision last october, designated budapest as the next headquarters of cepol. hungary will provide highly favourable conditions for the efficient and sovereign functioning of the european police college. that is why i am pleased that at the libe committee meeting last week, a large majority agreed to the transfer of cepol to budapest.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the wikström report today because it is in the european union's fundamental interest to allow young talented third-country nationals to enter the union for a limited period of time as students, researchers, volunteers or trainees, through an easier and simpler procedure. i also consider the report to be important from the hungarian point of view, as it can provide young people from transcarpathia and vaud in hungary with the opportunity to further their education and development, giving them access to many opportunities that are otherwise difficult to access.
in writing. - one of the main aims of the proposal is to make the european union more attractive to talented immigrants from third countries and to provide a legal immigration framework for the various third-country nationals (students, researchers, volunteers, trainees and au pairs). different national rules exist within the european union on applications for entry and residence permits, the harmonisation of which would facilitate and simplify procedures and safeguard against exploitation of certain groups such as trainees and au pairs. it is important for the european union to make better use of the potential of researchers and students from third countries by facilitating their employment in the union after completing their studies. this requires the introduction of a general rule, although in exceptional circumstances it should be possible for member states to take account of their national labour markets without jeopardising the right to work.
madam president, i would like to ask, what is the logic in allowing some people to speak four or five times during the explanations of vote and then telling others that there is no time left?
in writing. - i would like to welcome this report and the achievements of the committee in raising the programmeʼs budget to eur[nbsp ]3.5 billion and extending its scope to cover the most deprived people in general. the euʼs most vulnerable citizens facing serious poverty are often unable to access appropriate quantities and quality of food, and the economic crisis and subsequent rising food prices have also had a serious negative impact on food security. i also welcome the fact that priority will be given to local and regional products, with a view in particular to reducing food waste at every stage of the distribution chain. the fundʼs effectiveness must be ensured, in particular through monitoring, reporting and evaluation. hopefully the fund will promote social cohesion, enhance social inclusion, reduce poverty and contribute to the sustainable eradication of food poverty. however the programme cannot, of course, be viewed as a substitute for eu and national policies aiming to reduce and eliminate poverty, but may make a vital contribution to improving quality of life for those, such as children or the long-term unemployed, who cannot benefit from other programmes and the esf in particular.
i voted for the report on violence against women. once again, the issue of trafficking in women is one of many words and very few actions. the reason why there are so few acts is that the victims of trafficking in women and forced prostitution in the european union are only those from the second-class member states, and the beneficiaries are the male citizens of the old member states. i would like to call on those whose female relatives went abroad for work and disappeared without a trace, and then the police departments of western europe held out their hands and said that this is it, please, it must have been swallowed up by the earth and either refused to start an investigation because of suspicion of a crime or did little to investigate. we're going to be spotting some very nasty things together and sharing them with the european union.
in writing. - violence against women in all its forms is a deeply condemnable social phenomenon which not only violates the human rights of the women and girls who are victims but also hinders the achievement of equality between men and women, and therefore it is of paramount importance and in line with the fundamental objectives of the european union to act against it. the report in question is therefore to be supported in its essential aims and as a whole, but the text adopted contains a number of controversial points. perhaps most importantly, it proposes that the council activate the so-called bridging clause, i.e. that it adopt a unanimous decision that violence against women and girls is also an offence under article 83 (1) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. most member states - including hungary - criminalise forms of violence against women through the provisions of the criminal code, but in my view these do not fall within the classical 'cross-border' acts and therefore within the framework of eu criminal law cooperation. the abovementioned treaty allows the establishment of minimum standards for the regulation of particularly serious crimes which, by their nature or their effects, have a transnational character or for which it is particularly necessary to combat them on common bases. however, the vast majority of forms of violence against women are not.
in writing. - violence against women in all its forms is a deeply condemnable social phenomenon which not only violates the human rights of the women and girls who are victims but also hinders the achievement of equality between men and women, and therefore it is of paramount importance and consistent with the fundamental objectives of the european union to act against it. the report in question should therefore be supported in its essential aims, but the text adopted contains a number of controversial points. perhaps most importantly, it proposes that the council activate the bridging clause, i.e. adopt a unanimous decision that violence against women and girls is also an offence under article 83 (1) tfeu. most member states - and hungary too - have made the various forms of violence against women punishable by a number of provisions of the criminal code, but these provisions do not, in my view, fall within the classical transnational offences that are therefore to be prosecuted within the framework of eu criminal law cooperation. the abovementioned treaty allows the establishment of minimum standards for the regulation of particularly serious crimes which, by their nature or their effects, are of a transnational character or for which it is particularly necessary to combat them on common bases. however, the vast majority of forms of violence against women are not.
in writing. - four years ago, the treaty of lisbon entered into force, bringing major changes to the legal order of the european union. the treaty made the european parliament a co-legislator on an equal footing with the council and gave it a greater role vis-à-vis the european commission. parliament and the council, the two european legislatures, cannot deal with every detail on their own. however, parliament should have extensive powers of scrutiny in respect of the powers delegated to the european commission. the new legal system gives parliament very wide powers. we need to make it clear to the other eu institutions that the ep stands firmly for its rights and insists on maintaining control. this means that directly elected representatives can now, with the power of parliament and the power of legislation, control and veto the implementing decisions and decisions taken by the european commission. my own-initiative report is essentially a handbook for members of parliament to use to promote the interests of citizens.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report, as it rightly sets out the objective of further strengthening the cost- and non-cost-based competitiveness of the eu economy as a whole in the global economy, in particular by increasing competition in the product and service markets in order to increase productivity, resource efficiency and reduce prices. however, it is important to note that this process may be negatively affected by the public and private indebtedness of euro area member states; the community should therefore move beyond the growth model based on excessive debt accumulation and resource consumption. i agree that the main obstacle to growth (especially for smes) is the difficulty in accessing finance; therefore, new and innovative eu financial instruments to support smes' access to capital markets should be introduced and fully exploited, and the bureaucratic burden on smes should be further reduced.
in writing. - i welcome the fact that tackling the social consequences of the crisis is one of the five priorities listed in the annual growth survey for 2014. it is very important that the employment and social affairs sector is not overshadowed by the focus on fiscal consolidation and that the headline target of increasing employment is firstly kept on the agenda, and secondly, further promoted by investing in sustainable job creation. that consolidation measures will not have any further negative impact on people at risk of poverty and/or social exclusion must be ensured. the commission should put more emphasis on guiding member states in coordinating their national reform programmes with the goals of the europe 2020 strategy, in particular increasing employment and introducing effective incentives for work. the successful launch of the national roma inclusion strategies and its european framework is indispensable in this respect, since roma constitute a huge reserve of idle workforce and are disproportionately overrepresented among those living in poverty. increasing the employment of roma so that it would approximate the regional average would by itself trigger substantial economic growth that many countries hit by the sovereign debt crisis and with a significant roma population are so desperately in need of.
in writing. - the un predicts that the world's population will rise from 7 billion today to over 9 billion by 2050. to meet growing demand, fao estimates that food supplies would need to increase by 70 percent over the next 30 to 40 years. in addition to increasing production, it is necessary to develop crop varieties that can adapt to changing environmental conditions, provide sufficient yields and are of good quality. the research shall be extended to all plant species meeting the above conditions, not only to indigenous species. it is therefore necessary for the commission to allocate financial resources within the horizon 2020 research programme to adequately support research and practice in plant breeding.
mr. president, ladies and gentlemen of the house of representatives, the fourth railway package contains a number of important regulatory issues. i would like to make a few comments on the directive on the single european area. the directive provides for the complete separation of track operation and railway undertaking. i can accept the principle as such, but it is important to ensure the conditions for economic viability. there are two railway companies in hungary: máv, the successor to the former socialist giant, which operates the majority of the lines. for them, the time constraints of the transformation represent a risk, as the establishment of the holding structure is a time-consuming task. the company is much smaller than the company, which is affected by the planned quantitative restriction. of course, these problems are not unique to hungary, and that is why my colleagues and i have tabled an amendment to ensure that the operating conditions of the companies concerned are not made impossible.
i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place on wednesday 26 february 2014. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
the following agenda item is proposed by the committee on transport and tourism (a7-0317/2013) (com(2012) 0776 - c7-0418/2012 - 2012/0361 (cod))
thank you very much, it is really appreciated. those thirty seconds could be very important at the end.
i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place on wednesday 26 february 2014. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
the following item is added to the agenda of the joint debate on the following reports: report by olga sehnalová, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on the deployment of an on-board e-emergency system (com ((2013) 0316 - c7-0174/2013 - 2013/0165 ((cod)) (a7-0106/2014) and report by philippe de backer, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on the deployment of an eu-wide interoperable e-emergency service (com ((2013) 0315 - c7-0173/2013 - 2013/0166 ((cod)) (a7-0482/2013)
mr president, i should like to thank the two rapporteurs for their work and also to say thank you for the good collaboration between the two committees, the committee on transport and tourism and the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. these reports conclude a long process for the harmonised implementation of an interoperable eu-wide ecall service, which has been on the agenda of the commission since 2005. it is a priority action for the improvement of road safety and the deployment of an intelligent transport system in europe. the comprehensive strategy is built on a threefold regulatory approach encompassing the in-vehicle system, the telecommunications network and the public safety answering points. ecall will therefore contribute to the new targeting introduced into the road safety action programme in order to reduce the number of injuries in europe. i would like to insist on an approach through this report that will ensure an eu-wide emergency system that is public, simple and affordable for all. for this system to be effective on time and in order to complete the implementation of the equal strategy, it is crucial that member states upgrade their public safety answering point infrastructure required for the proper receipt and handling of ecalls. it is a priority for us that psap points and ecall system are ready by october 2015. this is something that can make a real difference. it is effectively accessible to all eu citizens throughout the european union and i therefore call on the member states to swiftly act on the psap infrastructure. moreover, the effectiveness of ecall will also largely depend on the familiarity of eu citizens with the service, which is currently far from being the case. it is therefore of crucial importance that the commission and member states launch an eu-wide awareness-raising campaign to explain to citizens the functionalities of the new system. with ecall we have the opportunity to save lives and reduce injuries on european roads, so let us work together in order to make it a reality.
in writing. i welcome the fact that the european parliament is finally firmly in favour of fitting all passenger cars, regardless of make or type, with electronic emergency call equipment, so that citizens with various disabilities can use it without hindrance, in the same way as safety belts. the e-call issue is important to the european parliament and to me, because in 2011 it was precisely on the subject of the 112 emergency call that the overwhelming majority of meps were able to adopt the most supported written declaration of the current term, whose philosophy is in line with the report to be voted on. this is to ensure universal and unhindered access to services such as e-call for all. the work of the colleagues who produced the report deserves special thanks for this.
on behalf of the ppe group. allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to begin by congratulating my colleague werner langen on this balanced report and on the fact that it covers and represents the activities of all the stakeholders and interested parties in the insurance brokerage market. unlike the honourable member before me, i believe that it protects and extends consumer protection to the fullest extent possible, while also drawing attention to risk, risk sharing and the need to provide information at the right time and in the right place, before the contract is concluded. to be published and to be known. i also consider it of great importance that the public can be called upon to help in cases of interest and that member states can ask insurance intermediaries to make public information on insurance premiums, remuneration, commissions or other non-financial benefits. i am convinced that if similar rules had been in place before the crisis, this could have helped to avoid the risk of having to pay and being able to take out insurance that was liable to mislead consumers by the fact that there was possibly incorrect information available. i think it is very important to ensure that there is adequate training in this market and that there are requirements and that there is an online registration that allows you to follow insurance mediation in this way. it is important to simplify administration, i.e. to make the system transparent, and thus to increase trust. madam president! i think that this report is so balanced that it is in any case suitable for our support, and i would therefore ask my colleagues to vote in favour of this report.
my fellow members of the house of representatives! the quality and accessibility of healthcare is of paramount importance to all eu citizens. i believe it is important to invest as much as possible in prevention, because although it may seem more expensive in the short term, it will mean significant savings for member states in the medium and long term, while improving the quality of life of our citizens. however, i would like to draw attention to an unfortunate amendment which is extremely disadvantageous for countries with weaker economic performance, including hungary. under the european commission's original proposal, low-income countries, such as hungary, would have received 80% of eu co-financing in joint actions instead of the 60% co-financing normally available. this proposal was supported by the european parliament but rejected by the council by a blocking minority. unfortunately, the commission has changed its original proposal, so that it now proposes a compromise solution that is hurting low-income countries. we cannot support or accept this.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen of the house. i would like to draw your attention to a very important element of the report that we have before us, which is the project called the safer internet programme, which is about child protection and promoting safe internet use. i was very sad when, on a proposal from the commission, the funding for it development was cut from the previous €9.2 billion to €1 billion. at that moment, it seemed that this successful program, whose running and significance i could follow closely, because as vice president of the hungarian association of the international child rescue service, i saw it work. in hungary alone, more than 60 000 children have been trained in recent years and we have reached more than 200 000 children, which at european level means 2 million children in the 27 member states. i thank the rapporteur, mr tošenovský, and my colleagues for supporting my amendment, which will keep the programme alive and will enable it to continue, under the name 'better internet for kids', to protect the greatest number of children from harmful content on the internet.
, in writing. - my fellow members of parliament! the report by mr evžen tošenovský on trans-european telecommunications networks is of great importance, as telecommunications and the internet are becoming increasingly important tools for services, education, society and business. in connection with the report, let me highlight a few points which i consider particularly important. first of all, i want to draw attention to the importance of designing a child-friendly internet. the report highlights the innovative safer internet programme, supported by the hungarian government, including safer internet centres in the member states, awareness-raising nodes, helplines and the child-friendly internet. secondly, the report focuses on consumer rights. ensuring that consumers can easily access and share the content, services and applications of their choice through a single internet subscription is essential for the achievement of the union's digital single market. thirdly, i consider it a great step forward to build up broadband infrastructure in rural areas and in economically and socially disadvantaged areas. this can help to improve communication, especially for people with reduced mobility or living in isolated circumstances. we can improve access to services, encourage the development of smes in rural areas and contribute to the creation of new jobs and services in these areas.
the committee on employment and social affairs has adopted an opinion. - madam president, members of the house. first of all, i would like to congratulate my colleague chatzimarkakis on his very valuable presentation. it was a pleasure to be part of this joint work. my fellow officers! without wanting to use big words at this late hour, i consider that digital, information communication and internet accessibility are above all a moral issue. we are living up to the most basic rules of human decency when we make public services websites accessible to our fellow europeans with disabilities. in this respect, perhaps again not exaggerating this proposal is revolutionary. it's clear that everything has an impact on the digital agenda, in terms of economic life, in terms of social consequences. it also has an employment effect. this digital accessibility could change the situation where only 45% of our tens of millions of disabled european citizens are employed. for our disabled european citizens who are otherwise able to work. so i'm glad this presentation came to our table.
the committee on culture and education has tabled an opinion. - my fellow officers. the draft directive broadly supports the commitments of the member states to make their websites accessible. i want to highlight two things from my comments that have already been made, the problem of aging and the type of websites that are being circulated. the union's population is ageing. as a consequence of an ageing society, i think accessibility is becoming more important not only for people with disabilities but also for older people. in addition, the number of people living with disabilities may increase in europe precisely because of the ageing problem. secondly, i think it is important that the report completes the range of types of websites that member states should make accessible by making those websites that have cultural and educational content accessible. we have accepted the compromises, so i personally recommend that the report be adopted.
as president of the disability intergroup, i welcome the broad consensus that has developed in the european parliament on behalf of people with disabilities. as is well known, the level of accessibility of websites and various internet-based services is currently at an extremely low level, so action was needed. as negotiator in the committee on employment and social affairs, i and my colleagues succeeded in ensuring that the interests of persons with disabilities were taken into account in the regulation on the new cohesion funds, both at the programming and implementation levels. i think it is fair to say that the present draft regulation is the first practical implementation of this cohesion regulation. i think we need to move on this as soon as possible. i would like to call on the european council, as a co-legislator, to start negotiations as soon as possible in order to bring legislation to bear as soon as possible so that our disabled colleagues in the european union can have full access to services as soon as possible.
when most people hear about accessibility today, they still think about physical accessibility. however, web accessibility for the disabled and the elderly is also becoming increasingly important. today, it is the main source of information, it gives equal opportunities in administration, access to benefits, services, active participation in society, and the provision of independent living. it is important that accessibility to the web takes into account the needs of everyone who lives with a physical, intellectual or sensory disability that may limit their equal participation in society. i would like to draw your attention to our own responsibility. we must also ensure equal access to our own websites in the run-up to the european elections. the fact that we recently published information on my work in parliament on my website in easy-to-understand language has had a positive response. many expressed hope that this would find a following.
on behalf of the s&d group. we are pleased that a significant number of member states have taken their task seriously and have drawn up a national implementation plan for the youth guarantee. we urge member states to ensure that the programme does not only help young people in relatively good standing, but also those most at risk of social exclusion and poverty. it is also important that member states align the youth guarantee with other programmes that can be funded by the esf that aim at prevention, that they also finance programmes in the field of education and training that help to prevent early school leaving, that they support early development and education programmes and non-formal education and learning methods, that they make higher education accessible to disadvantaged young people, that education and training are in line with the opportunities offered by the labour market, and that there is a transferability of work and education. the commission is also asked to continue to monitor closely the implementation of the youth guarantee in the member states and to facilitate the exchange of best practices.
in writing. - mr president, i have to go. it is a great pleasure to hear the report on the implementation of the programme, less than a year after the youth guarantee was adopted. one of the biggest challenges of the economic crisis is reducing unemployment. within this group, young jobseekers are one of the most vulnerable groups. the european union took a big step last year to tackle youth unemployment when it adopted the youth guarantee. the problem needs to be tackled proactively and the creation of jobs needs to be given a high priority in the member states. the implementation of the youth guarantee will require the cooperation of education and training institutions, employment organisations, youth organisations, trade unions and employers. the programme started at the beginning of 2014 and hungary will be able to support young people through, for example, training, retraining, traineeship programmes and measures to reduce contributions through employment centres. i suggest that we return to the question of implementation of the programme at another time to get more information on the successful initiatives of each member state.
in writing. – the financial losses due to the disengagement of young people from the labour market amount to hundreds of billions, which also represents a serious social and economic burden. enabling disadvantaged young people to fulfil their potential and participate actively at local, regional, national and european level is therefore not only an economic imperative and an essential factor for the achievement of greater social inclusion but also a necessity for the sound and sustainable development of their communities. it must be noted that, despite the economic crisis and the dismantling of workplaces, there are over two million unfilled vacancies in the eu, mostly because there are no workers with the required skills in the local job market. part of the solution for youth unemployment may be the development of high-quality vocational education and training systems, with highly-qualified teachers and trainers, innovative learning methods, high-quality infrastructure and facilities, high labour market relevance and pathways to further education and training. vocational education is more closely linked to the labour market than other sectors of education or training, yet the potential of work-based learning, and in particular apprenticeships, to tackle youth employment remains to be fully exploited in many countries.
in writing. – the epp group welcomes the european commission’s commitment in fighting youth unemployment. however, we deeply regret the delayed implementation of the guarantee scheme. as youth unemployment is a problem which concerns all member states, we find the exchange of best practice of utmost importance, and we support the commission’s guidance in this matter. however, we should not forget that employment policy belongs primarily to member states’ competence. the eur[nbsp ]6[nbsp ]billion dedicated specially to the youth guarantee scheme is a good start; on the other hand, it covers only one fourth of the funds needed, therefore we insist on the frontloading of the money, so that member states can practically kick-start the programmes to support youth employment. the epp group also regrets that we are still discussing plans, although we should be already discussing the member states’ experience relating to the implementation of the scheme. moreover, we would like to hear how the european commission is planning to make the rules easier and more streamlined so that relevant stakeholders can access the funds in the easiest and most efficient way.
in writing. i find it unacceptable that 11 of the 28 eu member states have still not submitted their operational programmes for the implementation of the youth guarantee to the european commission! how is it that 11 eu member states are not interested in reducing youth unemployment? it is commendable that the hungarian government has already prepared its operational programme, but the eu's 15 billion forints for seven years is not enough to help young people to thrive. to reduce youth unemployment in hungary, quality higher and vocational education, real internships and decent working conditions are needed. we must help every young hungarian and european, regardless of their financial background, to study and work according to their abilities and to live at a european standard of living! that's why we need to start a talent-building movement in our country and across the eu, to build a new system of people's colleges. since 2004, the mszp european parliament delegation has provided nearly 300 talented, often disadvantaged young hungarians with an opportunity to gain experience in brussels through the gyula horn internship programme and related training and after-school care. i hope that this practice will continue after the 2014 european elections.
in writing. - i supported the report because i believe that the single market should be defined as the third pillar of the european semester in order to have clear priorities for the real economy. i agree that country-specific recommendations should take into account the efforts and corrective actions already undertaken and completed by each member state and that national measures to implement single market legislation should not necessarily follow a universal approach but rather should be strictly adapted to the needs and specificities of the member states enhanced by the effectiveness of the measures taken and the tangible results of the policies implemented. it is clear that easier access to finance for smes would help alleviate liquidity difficulties and increase the working capital of smes; it is therefore of the utmost importance that the development of alternative forms of financing for smes is highlighted among the priorities identified by the commission in its 2014 annual growth survey. the report strongly supports eu-level initiatives to complement national efforts to increase micro-credit and boost social enterprise, including supporting development banks to offer loans at lower interest rates than those offered by commercial banks; in particular the importance of supporting smes through the cosme and horizon 2020 programmes.
in writing. - the european parliament adopted a report on the implementation of the cohesion policy programmes for the period 2007-2013 at its plenary session today. the crisis has made job creation a top priority. from 2014, more instruments will be available to support employment, job creation, in particular youth employment, and support for smes with significant job creation potential. hungary shall allocate 60% of eu funds directly to economic development between 2014 and 2020. under the operational programme for economic development and innovation, some huf 580 billion is earmarked for improving the competitiveness and employment of enterprises, and nearly huf 600 billion for promoting employment and developing the adaptability of enterprises.
in writing. - in the draft report by savisaar-toomast, it was stressed that the economic and financial crisis had hit the union's weaker regions particularly hard and that fiscal consolidation measures had reduced growth-enhancing expenditure while increasing the role and importance of cohesion policy. many of the less developed member states and regions are therefore heavily dependent on cohesion policy funding. i considered it necessary to add five motions for amendments to the draft report. i consider it important to emphasise that, given the high dependence of less developed member states and regions on cohesion policy resources, any potential macroeconomic sanctions should be preceded by a consideration of the negative impact of sanctions on member states' development. i emphasised that cohesion policy is more than a means to achieve the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy (as the draft report confirms). the objectives of economic, social and territorial cohesion must not be forgotten. i agree with the importance of multi-level governance, but the involvement of the regional and local levels should not lead to an excessive increase in administrative burdens. finally, i stressed that the european social fund can best contribute to the achievement of employment objectives when its use is combined with that of the european regional development fund. i am glad that other colleagues have also considered this aspect important and have, for example, proposed amendments to the commission to analyse the effectiveness of the european social fund and its impact on unemployment and job creation.
in writing. - disparities in development between european regions have increased as a result of the economic and financial crisis, and convergence regions are not able to overcome their difficulties alone. it is necessary to boost infrastructure investments, in particular through cohesion policy support, in order to tackle regional disparities and the effects of the crisis on groups at risk of poverty and exclusion. different approaches are used by the member states in preparing for the implementation of the future cohesion policy. it is equally vital, however, that member states and regions take the necessary steps to prepare the partnership agreements and operational programmes in a timely and efficient way so as to be ready to implement the funding as soon as possible, once the agreement on the common provisions regulation is reached. it is vitally important that projects can begin as soon as possible at the start of 2014 so that the use of european funding can be maximised in order to stimulate growth, and consequently social cohesion and inclusion, in the regions that are most in need, as well as to support transition and rce regions in their efforts to meet the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy.
in writing. - eu support to the outermost regions is not just about solidarity, but also helps the union to achieve its growth objectives by connecting these regions. while the remoteness of the outermost regions from the continent and their many geographical characteristics are major problems, the union should see an opportunity in this. the rapporteur considers that the union does not attach sufficient importance to the integration of the outermost regions. as the eu's main instrument of solidarity, cohesion policy should focus on supporting the regions most in need.
in writing. - the treaty allows the use of a new tool for final accounts, the so-called performance-based financial evaluation, in the various eu policies. the european commission is required under article 318 to prepare its annual report together with this evaluation. in this context, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control will in future also take into account the results achieved and the effectiveness of union policies when granting discharge. the parliamentary report calls on the european commission to prepare its annual report accordingly in the future. the report was adopted by a large majority in the committee and i supported the adoption of the report in the plenary vote.
in writing. - according to a report adopted by the european parliament today, e-call will be available in all new passenger cars from october 2015. today's decision is an important step forward for all european citizens who use cars, including those with disabilities. the equipment ensures that medical and technical assistance can arrive at the scene of an accident as quickly as possible, saving thousands of lives in europe every year. the e-call to emergency services is inactive in normal operation but in the event of an accident or collision it is activated automatically and notifies the nearest 112 call centre of the exact location of the accident and allows the 112 call centre to establish direct contact with the driver or passengers involved in the accident. this equipment has so far been found in less than 1% of the vehicle fleet. every year, 1.5 million citizens are involved in accidents on european roads and some 28 000 people lose their lives. preliminary estimates suggest that the emergency call could save some 2,500 lives a year. the cost of the application will be on average about huf 15,000 per vehicle.
in writing. - every year, one and a half million citizens are involved in accidents on european roads and some 28 000 people are killed. however, an electronic emergency call system would ensure that medical and technical assistance could arrive at the scene of an accident as quickly as possible, saving thousands of lives in europe every year. i therefore voted in favour of the proposal that from october 2015 the electronic emergency call system should be fitted to all passenger cars, irrespective of make and type.
in writing. - the european parliament voted against article 49 (3) of the agreement on political dialogue and cooperation, which deals with the mutual readmission of illegal immigrants. the readmission clause is an essential condition for cooperation with costa rica, el salvador, guatemala, honduras and nicaragua. these readmission agreements are an important tool for managing migration flows, which is why i support the report.
in writing. - article 145 of the treaty requires member states to develop a coordinated strategy for employment to ensure that all member states of the european union have a skilled, flexible and competitive workforce able to adapt to the challenges of the labour market. the report makes recommendations to the member states on how to increase employment and achieve the above objectives. the report's shadow reporter for the people's party was guard csaba. the report was adopted without a vote against in the committee, and i voted in favour of its adoption in the plenary.
in writing. - i would like to welcome the reinforcement of the 2010 employment policy guidelines that form a part of the eu 2020 strategy’s integrated guidelines. in cooperation with social partners, the member states must increase the employment rate through activation measures, in particular for the low-skilled and for people requiring particular protection or support, especially in marginalised communities, such as the roma. the support for social economy is very important in this context, and the member states must remove the barriers which make it more difficult for people to enter the labour market for the first time, support the creation of jobs, foster social innovation and increase the quality and effectiveness of job placement services, including public employment services. they must also actively support job seeking, also by introducing new forms of work organisation, such as atypical temporary work, part-time work and teleworking or homeworking, bearing in mind that any reduction in individual and collective labour rights and social protection must be avoided.
in writing. - i supported the report because i agree that the system for collecting the common vat should be harmonised at european level by means of on-line training materials and electronic vat return forms. the commission estimates that the introduction of the single tax return will reduce the administrative burden of vat collection by up to eur 15 billion per calendar year and therefore supports the intention of the report to reduce red tape and related costs for member states' tax authorities and taxable persons, thereby increasing the efficiency of vat collection. the single taxation system will not only improve the efficiency of the internal market in the future, but also significantly reduce the problem of tax evasion and avoidance.
in writing. - the proposal lays down the necessary internal measures to be put into practice between the eu and turkey for the readmission of persons residing without authorisation. the readmission agreement is linked to the visa liberalisation roadmap of turkey, which was signed and implemented by turkey on 16 december 2013. the obligation to readmit is also extended to family members (e.g. spouses, irrespective of their nationality) of its own nationals. the obligation on third-country nationals and stateless persons has preconditions that are applicable only three years after the entry into force of the agreement.
in writing. - the main objective of the fourth eu legislative package is to make rail more competitive and more attractive to citizens by opening up national markets. the most important part of the draft legislation, which comprises six pieces of legislation, would introduce the complete institutional separation of track operation and transport activities in the field of railway infrastructure management. however, the hungarian example also shows that flexible exceptions to the main separation rule should be built into the system. in the case of máv, the successor of the former socialist giant, the structural transformation is hampered by a number of inherited factors. given the much smaller size of gysev, it would be highly disadvantageous for operational reasons to operate separate management and separate services. i therefore voted in favour of the position that member states should continue to rethink the structure of the railway sector and, if necessary, change it within their own competence, or even switch to another model.
in writing. - i consider the report to be of the utmost importance and have voted in favour of it, since the transparent and correct functioning of the internal market and the insurance market is inconceivable without the precise content of insurance contracts, the persons involved and the precise definition and fixing of the individual premiums and charges associated with insurance. we have often seen in the wrong light insurance contracts concluded at the expense of consumers, in a non-transparent way or against very expensive commissions, or in cases where it was not always clear what they were. they were only good at making the average citizen skeptical and mistrustful of insurance transactions for life. the primary and perhaps most important aspect of this report was therefore to restore european consumer confidence. consequently, i can only welcome the fact that this report rightly targets forms of greater transparency and accountability, such as the online registration of insurance intermediaries, which is also officially supervised, or the fairness and non-misleading nature of the various marketing strategies provided to consumers. i also support the idea that all information relating to an insurance contract, such as the exact type of insurance, the obligations arising from the contract, the exact range of risks covered and not covered, and the level of premiums and the exact method of payment, should be transparent and should in any case be available to the consumer before the contract is concluded .
in writing. - i would like to welcome the fact that the budget for the european union’s upcoming action programme in the field of health available to national authorities, public and private bodies, international organisations and ngos has increased by 5.7% with regard to the current period. i truly hope that limiting the programme’s scope to areas where eu action can bring genuine added value in the healthcare sector will enhance its effectiveness and improve its performance. it is very important that granting access to healthcare for all eu citizens and reducing health inequalities by addressing the health-related, social and economic challenges remains a general objective of the programme. i would like to further welcome the proposal for developing comparable union-wide health indicators in order to help reducing inequalities in healthcare as well as the call for conducting gender-sensitive studies, analyses, investigations and sex-disaggregated data in order to identify, disseminate and promote validated best practices for cost-effective prevention measures addressing gender-specific health conditions and diseases. it is also very important to boost health promotion policies, as well as secondary prevention, including vaccination programmes, early diagnosis and appropriate treatment with special regard to marginalised communities and equally to promote health education and patient awareness.
in writing. - the european parliament voted today in strasbourg for legislation requiring that the websites of public sector organisations and organisations carrying out vital public services be made accessible to people with disabilities in the future. the report adopted today suggests that in the future, everything from websites providing certain basic services to the public (media prices, basic online banking and insurance services), to networked basic services (gas, district heating, electricity, water) and postal or transport services should be accessible to people with disabilities. the same should apply to online information on health and social care, but also to websites containing cultural or tourist activities. wider access facilitates access by persons with disabilities to news, cultural and entertainment content, and to services and information that facilitate the exercise of their rights and freedoms throughout the union. i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - i support the report which rightly stresses that, given europe's dependence on bank loans, there is an urgent need to further improve access to capital markets, especially for smaller businesses. a new source of financing for businesses should be created, including the creation of new trading venues adapted to specific needs and better access to private capital and venture capital. the european investment fund (eif) has so far successfully implemented its credit quality improvement operations, and the competitiveness and innovation framework programme has also proved successful. however, unnecessary administrative and regulatory burdens need to be further reduced, as mentioned in the small business package and the regulation on the competitiveness of enterprises and the programme to support small and medium-sized enterprises (cosme). in addition to new resources and programmes to help smes, europe needs a sound tax system, proper accounting principles, and effective corporate governance and prudential regulation to create a functioning single market.
i'd like to ask a specific question to commissioner stefan füle. there's understandable tension in the room, because obviously we're getting news from ukraine every minute, and i ask that we think about how tense we are, how tense those whose lives are in danger must be. and i would like to ask mr. füle whether he is aware that there are not only more than 150,000 hungarian compatriots living in transcarpathia, but that among them there are about 50,000 hungarian citizens, that is, citizens of the european union. my question is that while on the one hand events are unfolding minute by minute here, and on the other hand point (g) of the report on the situation in ukraine which we are now discussing points out round the clock that certain extremist forces are threatening ethnic cleansing, what is the intention of the european union? that they want to protect the 50,000 eu citizens who live in a block of ukrainian territory. these people don't need the kind of refuge that the motherland offers them, hospitals, refugee camps, etc. that's not necessary! the european union will defend them, even by force of arms. what's your idea of that?
in writing. non-violence, dialogue, guaranteeing fundamental rights and protecting the rights of the transcarpathian hungarian community are essential to resolving the situation in ukraine. it is worrying and incomprehensible that the ukrainian parliament has withdrawn the law regulating the language rights of minorities. i hope that, in line with the promises made, the ukrainian parliament will regulate language rights in accordance with the needs of national minorities and adopt measures that take into account the interests of minorities and serve the country's approach to the european union.
in writing. no one expected an unexpected revolution in ukraine when yanukovych finally refused to sign the association agreement with the eu. the eu also stood by and watched the independence square crowd marching under the eu flag and in support of european values, paralysed by the european left's pact with yanukovych. and the ruling ukrainian elite has turned against its own people. the people's party finally broke the silence by joining the protesters on the maidan, which was eventually followed by eu sanctions. klitschko's resilience with protesters and timoshenko's release are also symbolic for the european right, although not as a result of a few negotiations. however, events are now pointing towards political disunity, and self-reflection by ukrainian elites is essential to reconcile ukrainian society. just as outside actors should consider their next steps. russia's legitimate and illegitimate interests remain at stake. the eu can have a positive objective in offering ukraine the prospect of eu membership and providing the necessary means to do so. a democratic transition and democratic institutions are the only guarantees for the full protection of minority rights. this should be the eu's red line.
in writing. - my fellow members of parliament! democracy and the ukrainian people have won a victory in recent days. however, this victory also carries with it many dangers, as ukraine is in a state of uncertainty in most respects. the eu must intervene more actively in the situation in ukraine through diplomatic means to prevent extreme nationalists from emerging as the victors of the chaos. i would like to draw the attention of my colleagues in particular to the need to use all possible democratic means to ensure that fundamental human rights are not violated in ukraine and that minorities are protected. among others, both for the transcarpathian hungarians and for the ukrainian jews, it is our duty to guarantee a life worthy of man, without fear.
although we are a handful of people out of the 700 or so members who are usually here for the debate in the european parliament, i would like to encourage you to feel that we are discussing and reporting on real problems, real dramas, real tragedies of real people here, and now that the debate is about the use of drones as weapons, and the next report, it has occurred to me that we should hold hearings at this time. with today's technology, we could even skype in with people from yemen who have lost loved ones in collateral damage in the context of the outrageous human rights violations of our great friend the united states, and we could also connect with people who would tell us that this use of drones is not really against terrorism, but it is specifically motivating terrorism. i suggest we introduce this method, the method of interviews.
the committee on employment and social affairs has adopted an opinion. - my colleagues! as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs, i would like to express my regret that certain parts of our opinion were not taken up in the report. however, i welcome the fact that mr michel has taken up the important idea that the european court of justice should treat the charter of fundamental rights as a guide to interpretation in social and employment matters. finally, i would like to refer to the position also expressed in the report: the financial and economic crisis has affected the most deprived and poorest groups far more than the individuals who irresponsibly caused it. so the political responsibility should be taken by the parties in government in 2008/2009.
the report on the situation of fundamental rights was a pleasant surprise, as it emphasised the rights of indigenous national communities as human rights. i would like to ask commissioner viviane reding, who is here, whether this theory can be put into practice in transcarpathia, which is now part of the ukraine in turmoil, which once belonged to hungary but was separated by peaceful diktats, and where hungarians, rusyns and other nations and peoples traditionally live together in peace. do you think you support, or how do you say you support, the european union's right to their national self-determination, which means that an area five times bigger than luxembourg can choose the path of autonomy, can choose the path of full autonomy or can ask to be linked back to hungary.
blue-card question. – would you be so kind to explain to me why this body is so obsessed with hungary when it comes to human rights violations? can you name another member state which has been referred to so often in the context of human rights violations? if you look at countries such as romania, slovakia and so on – plus serbia, which of course is not yet a member state – which violate the human rights of native hungarians there on a mass basis, the european union does not do anything whatsoever.
the separation of powers does not work, the government has taken control of a number of independent institutions, restricted freedom of expression and other basic democratic rights, and curtailed the jurisdiction of the constitutional court. in addition to political power, it took control of the economy and culture. the above assessment was not made by a candidate country but by a european union country which has been a member for 10 years, and was recently carried out by the german bertelsmann foundation. i wonder if a country with such problems in a number of international organizations would get the green light to join. our answer is a resounding no. is it right that after accession the european institutions do not have an effective tool to enforce the copenhagen criteria and to protect the eu's fundamental values? the european parliament has repeatedly and categorically said no to this question. the luis michel report is the fifth parliamentary document calling on the european commission and the council to establish a community system of controls and sanctions to prevent serious and systematic infringements and to allow for effective, rapid and equitable intervention. the crisis has highlighted the interdependence of the member states in financial and economic terms and has forced closer integration. however, there is no effective economic union without closer political integration. the eu's inability to protect fundamental rights has a negative impact on economic performance and calls into question the union's credibility in international relations. we are convinced that the treaty still allows for a regular assessment of the rule of law and democracy in the member states and for more effective eu intervention in the event of systemic problems. international organisations shall regularly publish data and indicators which may serve as a basis for the annual evaluation of the fundamental rights agency. however, the development of the new copenhagen mechanism may require the treaty to be amended. we sincerely hope that the commission's forthcoming communication will propose all of this and that the council will have the political will to make the eu's core values a reality. (the intervener agrees to answer a question referred for a preliminary ruling (article 149 (8) of the rules of procedure). )
it's a two-card draw. i'm sorry, but due to the polite farewell of my neighbour, i missed the beginning of the speech. could you repeat what country my colleague was talking about? i hope that this time you have not insulted your own country in an exceptional way, but at the same time let me ask you whether you and your colleagues have managed to show that the tavares report had practically no consequences for hungary other than that anti-unionism in our common country has become very strong.
that's a two-card answer. i'm truly sorry that congresswoman morvai wasn't paying attention. i didn't mention a country, i just quoted from a report. the tavares report is followed by the present luis michel report, among others, and i sincerely hope that the report i am about to produce on the same subject will follow suit very soon. there is a need for control at european level in the area of democracy and the rule of law, as well as for continuous monitoring and a crisis mechanism. this report is also looking for ways to do that.
mr. president, i have to go. in previous years, the european parliament has repeatedly issued a strong warning to hungary for its violations of fundamental rights and the rule of law. to our great surprise, in its report last year, the european agency for fundamental rights also ignored the human rights situation in hungary, along with greece. the same partisan bias is seen in the report by luis michel on fundamental rights, which gives lithuania and hungary a name-calling. left-wing politicians should finally stop selective judgments and double standards and, for example, in post-communist slovakia or romania, should defend with similar consistency the fundamental rights of traditional ethnic minorities, including hungarians who suffer severe discrimination.
in writing. - the common european sales right is an optional instrument to facilitate transactions between parties at a distance. the proposal provides for a european system of procurement rules which is identical in all member states within each national legal system, while retaining the procurement rules of each member state. thus, for example, parties to online sales are free to choose whether to rely on national sales law or on a european sales rules system that is the same in all member states. i am voting in favour of the creation of a 'common legal language' in europe which will greatly facilitate trade between parties with links to different eu countries and thus have a positive impact on european economies.
i voted in favour of this report, which takes a relatively serious step forward in the prevention and treatment of prostitution. i did this as a hungarian woman, because we must finally recognize that the issue of prostitution, trafficking in women, sex trafficking is also a matter of discrimination, not only between women and men, but between new member states and old member states. mrs lunacek easily spoke with such enthusiasm about how prostitution is a free choice and actually how it is an okay thing when non-austrian women go in their misery to hungary or romania as prostitutes, and it is not austrian women who are kidnapped and trafficked in post-communist eastern european countries, but vice versa. i was surprised that when there was a discussion about homosexuality, he spoke about love with such devotion and reverence, and i didn't see the same in him when discussing prostitution.
in writing. - solvit is a community problem-solving tool that contributes to better compliance with eu law on the single market by helping citizens and businesses to solve their problems. it also plays an important role in identifying obstacles to the implementation of single market legislation, joining the eu-wide range of assistance services and enforcement tools. despite the encouraged institutional efforts, solvit and the opportunities it offers continue to be underutilized by those concerned. solvit is a successful tool that has produced tangible results and the steps taken to promote it are therefore welcome and should be supported.
in writing. - i welcome the rapporteur's work to facilitate the work of judicial authorities in obtaining evidence in criminal proceedings involving several eu countries. the proposal allows authorities to request their partner organisations to carry out investigations and share evidence. for example, when swedish detectives are looking for criminals hiding in portugal, they can ask their portuguese colleagues to search the homes of suspects. the measures set out in the directive are of course accompanied by strict data protection requirements, with respect for fundamental rights in criminal proceedings, and in no case obliging member states to act in a way that deviates from the standards laid down in their own constitutions. the european parliament seems to have struck the right balance between effective law enforcement, effective judicial cooperation and the protection of the rights of the defence.
in writing. - at the eastern partnership summit in vilnius last november, it was announced that moldova was the first eastern partnership country to meet the requirements of its visa liberalisation action plan, which introduced visa liberalisation for moldovan citizens holding biometric passports. the eu has also been able to provide assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, including the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. the visa waiver brings a number of mutual benefits to both parties, such as deepening economic, cultural and scientific relations between the eu and moldova, and a peaceful settlement of the transnistrian issue. these processes, which embody one of the eu's most fundamental principles, have the potential to make a positive difference to the lives of millions of people.
i voted no on the report on the situation in ukraine. it was shocking to see how some european political forces were so enthusiastic about it that they wrote that they had died for european values and the european flag on the maidan. well, that's a lie, all right. there were certainly those who died for certain european values, especially freedom, but in closing i would ask what kind of change for european values is this, one of whose first steps is to abolish the language law and to deprive indigenous national communities of their fundamental right to speak their own language. the night's wild beasts are gathering for blood. it's a hungarian poem. that could be the motto of this report, it's all about how to colonize ukraine.
in writing. - after the bloody clashes and the inexcusable mass murders in the ukrainian capital, we must do everything we can, even in words, to consolidate peace and democracy. however, the fact that the ukrainian authorities have already repealed the law on the use of minority languages is a cause for concern and calls into question the commitment of the new ukrainian authorities to democracy and the rule of law. this could seriously affect the legal security of the hungarian minority in ukraine. it is the task and duty of both the v4 and the european parliament to draw the attention of the international community to the situation of the 200,000 hungarian transcarpathiaans, to the unjustified deprivation of rights. hungary does not and cannot recognize the abolition of the ukrainian language law, which would be a clear step backwards for the large number of transcarpathian hungarians. the new government, if it is to embark on a truly democratic path, must make respect for the rights of minorities a priority.
in writing. - i was saddened to read the report of the un mission in iraq, issued on february 1st, which revealed that 733 iraqis lost their lives and another 1229 iraqis were victims of acts of terrorism and violence in the past month alone. the year 2013 was the most tragic, with 7,818 civilians killed in attacks and 8,868 including security forces. iraq continues to face significant security challenges, with armed groups behind them that sow tensions and divide the people. the number of terrorist groups is alarming, including the jihadist group islamic state of iraq and the levant (isil), which is the most powerful in anbar province, where a series of bombings have recently occurred. internal political divisions and religious tensions have also contributed significantly to the deteriorating security situation in iraq. it is therefore necessary that political and religious leaders in iraq engage in dialogue as soon as possible and speak out against religious division and violence. the iraqi government should also take all necessary decisive measures to strengthen the rule of law and promote reconciliation. i support the eu's efforts to promote democracy, human rights, the rule of law and good governance in iraq.
in writing. - the development and deployment of drones, i.e. unmanned aircraft for military use, in the eu is a pressing issue in the common european security policy. their application raises a number of questions, including which international conventions regulate the use of tools to modify the rules of warfare. the camp of those who advocate the development and deployment of drones has now grown quite large. they argue that drones are an established tool in modern warfare and are becoming indispensable in both military and civilian operations (peacekeeping, border policing, surveillance). the commission has also joined the ranks of donors by providing eur 315 million under the horizon programme for the development of paper-based devices for civilian use, but which are in fact largely for military purposes. the ep's report, adopted last year, focusing on the exploitation of the potential of a single european defence industry, underlined the sector's strong potential for innovation and growth. the most pressing issue for european drone technology is whether individual member states are willing to support efforts to bring the defence industry into the community. the creation of a european drone would undoubtedly point in that direction. in order to ensure the smooth functioning of the single market, the union's external action should be geared to the needs of the union's citizens and to the needs of the union's external action. the members agreed to develop military drones from 2020. their goal is to reduce their dependence on israeli and american defense companies.
i did not vote for the report on the situation of fundamental rights, not because it omitted the excellent amendments which would have made a wonderful link between political freedoms and social and labour rights. instead of theoretical legal advice, let me give you an example. how could he use his freedom of expression, freedom of speech, right to strike, say the cashier or the salesman who works in the typical foreign-owned food chain, typically, of course, a woman, often divorced, maybe not even receiving alimony, a foreign currency creditor, has a salary of 80 000 forints, if he raises his voice, they say that 15 other people are waiting for his job. labour rights, social rights and freedom of expression and other political freedoms are very closely intertwined. that should have been emphasized.
in writing. the european parliament's group of the european people's party and fidesz rejected the report by the belgian liberal politician louis michel on the situation of fundamental rights in the european union. the document adopted by the left-wing majority of the ep infringes the sovereignty of the member states and undermines the unity of the european union. the european people's party has always been a consistent defender of fundamental rights. however, several points in the michel report are contrary to the values of the european people's party. the document adopted today also goes beyond the powers of the european parliament and goes against the spirit of the treaties, thus upsetting the balance of powers between the eu institutions. the fidesz group in the european parliament rejects the european left's attempt to interfere in the internal affairs of individual member states. in recent years, hungary has been the victim of political games of the european left on many occasions, most recently when the tavares report was adopted, which was written by hungarian socialists and seriously violated hungary's sovereignty. with the michel report voted today, the left wants to create a legal basis for similar attacks on populist governments. this is an irresponsible endeavour and undermines the unity of the european union. the fidesz group in the european parliament considers it unacceptable that the hungarian socialists have repeatedly attacked hungary, as they did during the tavares report, and voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - i did not support this report because it contains grave inaccuracies and distortions. i am in favour of the full recognition of fundamental human rights within the union, since it is unfortunately rightly said from time to time that while in remote parts of the world the union is waging a veritable crusade against human rights violations, in its own member states it unfortunately tends to turn a blind eye to them. unfortunately, the report clearly shows that the left-liberal political side wants to appropriate the subject of fundamental rights, and accuses and refers to certain countries with untrue things, including hungary, which are not even justified in cases such as romania or slovakia, which are constantly violating european laws and norms. the left is not the first to want to usurp fundamental rights in this way and to use this over-ideologised report as a political tool, thus violating the principle of subsidiarity of the member states. this procedure is nothing but the selective judgment and double standards applied to the hungarian and other democratically elected right-wing governments. left-wing politicians and the european fundamental rights agency should not only deal with anti-gypsyism or anti-semitism in hungary, but should also defend with similar consistency traditional ethnic minorities, including hungarians who suffer from severe discrimination, in slovakia or romania.
in writing. - the protection and promotion of fundamental rights is crucially important for the whole of the european integration process. however, the proposed creation of a ‘new copenhagen mechanism’ – to ensure that the fundamental rights and the values of the union are respected – would seriously put at risk this objective, because it may miss the target by becoming a tool for power display and political hammering. the real objective is not to oppose individual member states, but to directly address the specific issues of human rights violations. one of the most worrisome of these serious human rights gaps is the situation of roma communities, for the inclusion of whom the eu has adopted the eu framework for national roma inclusion strategies in 2011, but without visible results so far. member states must effectively implement their national strategies to foster real inclusion, particularly in the field of fundamental rights, such as combating the segregation of roma children and their illicit placement in special schools. the commission must present comparable and reliable indicators to monitor progress in member states and to ensure, during the establishment of partnership contracts and the national operational programmes, that eu funds promote equal opportunities and prevent discrimination and segregation.
in writing. - today, the ep voted by a large majority on the future of the european arrest warrant. the european arrest warrant system, as it was known in hungary in the tobin case, needs to be improved and this report makes proposals to eliminate the backlog of irregularities in the application of the instrument. the most tangible achievement of the union for citizens is the freedom to cross borders without checks. this has brought with it a number of positives to the satisfaction of all of us. it also means that the perpetrators of crimes can cross the border without hindrance. this is why all community instruments are important to help law enforcement across borders and to assist the judicial authorities of the member states in tracing the perpetrators of crimes and bringing them to justice, regardless of where they are. it is in the common interest of all of us that the guilty should not escape accountability. it is also essential that member states should not be deprived of the opportunities offered by this instrument and that mutual trust between member states should be strengthened. the report on the arrest warrant, which has just been voted, highlights the weaknesses of the system and makes proposals to eliminate them, without jeopardising this essential mechanism of mutual cooperation.
in writing. - the european arrest warrant (eww) aims to simplify lengthy extradition procedures between eu member states, which it implements through a judicial surrender procedure, so that an eww issued by the judicial authorities of any member state is valid throughout the european union. since its introduction in 2004, the commission has produced three implementation reports. while the overall assessment is positive, deficiencies in the functioning of the system have emerged, mainly due to the unbalanced nature of the criminal justice system at union level. such cases may include, for example, excessive use of the epp by some member states, failure to apply proportionate checks or wording inaccuracies when initiating an investigation as to whether the requirement of suspicion and reasonable suspicion satisfies the requirement of 'reasonable presumption' when a criminal offence within the competence of the eppo is committed or has been committed. i support the commission's development of horizontal proposals on procedural rights of suspects and on the combined application of the various mutual instruments.
in writing. - women play a key role in most social groups, as is the case in fishing communities. their contribution to collective success is crucial, both through their labour, which creates considerable economic added value, and through their managing of households. however, women’s work in fishing and related activities is often invisible, complementing the work carried out by their partners in an economic climate that is becoming increasingly harsh for family businesses. in these situations, there are no fixed wages or social benefits – such as health insurance or pension rights – even though, for most of them, this activity is their only source of income. one of the most important clauses in this report is the call for the accessibility of statistical data and for the collection of gender-disaggregated data to gain a detailed picture of women’s current working situation in fisheries and aquaculture. member states must ensure – notably through the european maritime and fisheries fund – that young people and women in the fisheries sector have access to on-going training so that they can improve their position in the fisheries labour market, with a view to promoting women’s role and ensuring that they are present in all representative bodies.
first of all, i would like to congratulate mr marinescu, who has done an excellent job, although his tone is a bit critical, but at the same time i think it is appropriate and gives a good overview of the report. the european investment bank is not a traditional commercial bank. its task is to balance the internal market and ensure that growth is balanced. the activities of the agency shall take into account the problem areas. there are these areas, there are these groups, and there are these types of businesses. i think it's important that when the bank does its business, it reviews these. that is why i think it is important and i support the increase in the provision of loans to smes, even if the impact is in the order of 50 billion, which i think is very good. i also think that the capital increase is important, but i would like to mention that this three a's, triple a rating should not be an obstacle to the investment bank fulfilling its purpose and its task. i would like to propose that we increase the role of impact studies and develop statistics that are also suitable for measuring the return on investment.
it's a two-card draw. do you not think that the approach is not appropriate, that this issue cannot be stressed enough? wouldn't it be much more emphatic and important to focus on what are the competences and tasks of the european union and what are the national competences? do you not think that if this report had been more focused, it would have been more useful? wouldn't you think that if we looked at why self-employed people, micro-enterprises and certain sectors are not included in the statistics, we would get a fuller picture of the situation? don't we have more to do here?
mr president, this report is the opportunity to have a genuine state of play for gender equality in the european union and to acknowledge the progress achieved but also to identify the remaining shortcomings and imbalances. there are numerous equalities in the field of employment which, in decision-making as well as the elimination of violence against women, are far from being a reality. we need more efficient policies towards the reconciliation of work and private life to give women the chance to be fully integrated on the labour market. the gender pay gap is still very high, as my friend ms bauer mentioned, and produces an even greater gender pension gap: currently 39[nbsp ]% on average in the european union. in addition to these deeply-rooted inequalities, the crisis has hit women hard and widened these inequalities through the degradation of working conditions and as a result of the austerity measures. we need to learn from these failures. it is high time for concrete and better gender mainstreaming in all social and economic policies of the union, from their conception to their implementation. when it comes to the impact of the fiscal consolidation, this parliament had already asked for a real assessment of these measures on equality between women and men. it is therefore important that the angle is included in the report. if we want to achieve a modern democratic european union with equal opportunities, rights and these possibilities for all, we cannot overlook those issues. for equality between women and men is one of the most important prerequisites for prosperity, economic growth and the advancement of our society.
yeah, it's all about women these days, and that respect, that special attention, is very important to us. i'd love to put this report here, but i won't, because i actually think it's a little messy, unstructured, and i don't consider it an analysis. i agree with my colleagues in the house who said that political will is needed to achieve results here. indeed, i belong to a political group whose governmental work has been effective in this area. for us, for our party family, respect for women and mothers is paramount. so we have introduced family policy measures that put this issue first and address it in a real way. you talked about gyes, we extended it for three years. they talked about how we have to balance work and family. i would like to say that in hungary women no longer have to choose by force, but they have the opportunity to choose freely, so that if they go back to work, they do not even have to give up the childcare fee. i want to tell you that we've been able to increase public safety by reducing violence against women. we give older women such respect that they can go to work after 40 years of employment. we've put in place a tax system that supports families. it is a long line, i cannot list it, it really takes political will, mr president, and this is not a wish, it has become a reality in hungary.
, in writing. one of the major problems with the commission's proposal for reform of plant propagating material law is that it would confer on the commission the power to adopt delegated acts on fundamental policy issues. unfortunately, experience so far shows that this type of authorisation is abused. the commission regularly and seriously exceeds its powers. this problem is frequently raised in the draft delegated acts concerning the common agricultural policy. the commission would impose new requirements which it is not empowered to impose under the basic regulations. what he couldn't get through the political agreement, he's trying to smuggle in by way of a loophole. the agriculture committee has already repeatedly listed the passages where the commission infringes union law. if the commission does not correct all the infringing provisions, parliament should veto the delegated acts. this is a clear violation of parliament's powers, and we cannot allow it! a prime example of this abuse of power is the case of wood-based energy crops. the legislation on direct payments clearly empowers member states to determine the types of trees that can be planted. therefore, the commission should not require in a delegated act that only native tree species may be planted. i demand that the commission immediately eliminate all violations.
it's only been a couple of hours since this afternoon, the day of the szekler holiday, a crowd of 20 to 30 thousand people demonstrated in the maros marketplace in transylvania for the autonomy of the szekler region, despite the prohibitive provisions of the romanian authorities. as a result of the assimilation and settlement policy of romanian state nationalism, the hungarians of transylvania and szeklerland in their native land were already in a situation similar to that of the crimean tatars. we see autonomy as the guarantee of the survival and future of our hungarian minority community. in the spirit of well-functioning european autonomies, we ask and urge the romanian government, the international community, the european union and the european parliament to provide effective support for this.
on february 23, the ukrainian parliament adopted a language law. this language law seriously infringes the rights of minorities, in the sense that it allows the use of a minority language where the percentage of minorities reaches 50%. this new regulation, this new law seriously violates and restricts the rights of the hungarian minority living in ukraine. beyond limiting these rights, i believe it is contrary to eu standards. i find it regrettable that one of the first decisions taken by ukraine in its move towards the european union was to restrict the rights of minorities. i think that intervention is needed, i ask the president of the commission to convey my concerns to the ukrainian parliament, the legislature and the ukrainian government to legislate, to define a language law that is in line with eu standards. and i think that by addressing this concern, this request, we can create a better and more appropriate grammar.
mr wałęsa's excellent report also demonstrates that since 2009 the committee on petitions has become the conscience not only of the european parliament but of the entire european union. in recent years, we have had to give hope to citizens who have turned to the eu institutions for violations of their fundamental democratic rights. by abolishing the old-age and service pensions in hungary, tens of thousands of people were unjustly deprived. these cases are still pending. we also had to act on issues like the 2007 confirmation of the venice decrees, which stated the principle of collective guilt, or the slovak citizenship law. the eu cannot remain silent and inactive when fundamental rights are violated, whether it is the removal of acquired rights or the collective stigmatisation of the hungarian upland community. unfortunately, what mrs mcguinness has been talking about lately is that the european commission is not living up to the letter and spirit of the charter of fundamental rights.
in writing. – anyone can be a victim of torture - children or adults, religious people or atheists, intellectuals or uneducated people. i welcome the fact that the report refers in detail to the situation of children facing torture and proposes concrete actions to be taken in order to improve their protection. action by state governments is also indispensable. states should develop child-friendly justice systems that empower children not only to assert their rights but also to report violations. the member states can play an exemplary role in this field, as some of them have already implemented action plans, adopted or amended relevant laws, and developed special websites in order to improve their justice system and make it more child-friendly. i also welcome the fact that the text recommends that eeas and the commission pay special attention to individuals belonging to other vulnerable groups such as ethnic, linguistic, religious and other minorities, as these particular groups might be exposed to torture more often. torture needs to be eradicated. i hope that this current report will be another step forward in this global struggle and will positively influence eu foreign policy on this issue.
first of all, i would like to congratulate my colleague, rapporteur balz, who has done an excellent job. obviously, we are talking about one functioning authority, two functioning authorities to be precise, and this report makes some very good and precise suggestions for changes in the powers of these functioning authorities. we all know that the financial crisis has highlighted that there are specific major shortcomings in these areas, and there are systemic problems that need to be regulated. i think that consistency is very important here and that we should be able to regulate these areas in a uniform way in all the member states of the european union. there is no doubt that there is a new need to clarify the role and the stability, accountability and transparency of these authorities. this, like the establishment of the authorities, was preceded by a very important preliminary work, which resulted in this report, which fits into this system. i also think it is important to stress that this report is not an end in itself, but that it integrates the work of these authorities into the real economies, where there is a real need for job creation and economic growth. i therefore believe it is important to establish a single set of rules which will serve as a basis for the enforcement and monitoring of these rules. i would like to highlight a few areas, the most important of which i think is the otc, the regulation of these derivatives transactions, which we have discussed several times in our committee. but i think it is very important that they are properly regulated and controlled and that they have higher capital requirements. the last thing i want to mention is the importance of integration, which should also apply in this area. mr president, my final point is that this report is about transparency, which is why i consider it of the utmost importance and will support it.
it's clear that our efforts to clean up the economy have not been enough. you mentioned that it's a few percent. i agree that's not a high percentage. but if i add that a few percent of that comes from crime, that's a very high number, so we have a tremendous amount of work to do. i would like to draw attention to two factors: one is the importance of the business register, the importance of linking business registers. i've heard some opinions that there are obstacles here. officer, i don't want to hear obstacles, i want to know that this can be done. i want to know who the ultimate beneficiaries are. if in a transaction between individuals we know who is against whom, i think that's the minimum we can expect from companies. we also heard that it's not just about corporations, it's about foundations. the government money from ukraine went to dutch foundations. the registers shall be made public. they shall be made available to the legal entities concerned. the last topic i want to talk about is the importance of risk-taking, and the importance of prevention. a colleague of mine who was traveling with me to the parliament meeting mentioned that it's very bad if money laundering reaches exactly those pensioners or small investors whose money is clean, and in the meantime the big fish will be left out again, who have made their money through crime. so i would like to focus on proportionality in risk taking, and i would like to see a more holistic approach to risk assessment. i'd like to see us handle this. international standards are important, but i think that important steps need to be taken within the european union.
in writing. - the younger generation is not aware that in my country's capital there was a long-established inland shipyard, which even for large shipping nations built ships and other special floating structures, including hulls. thanks to the european union, after accession, the shipyard was abolished, as were almost all our plants with their own design, development and supply background. i supported the report because it was based on good statistics to coordinate and accelerate the transport of passengers and goods by inland waterway. the danube offers an ideal opportunity for this.
in writing. - i supported the report as it sets out the rules on the quality, timeliness, transmission and quality control of statistical data compiled and transmitted for the purpose of the procedure for the detection of macroeconomic imbalances and the prevention and correction of excessive macroeconomic imbalances in the union (mip data). i agree that clear requirements and procedures should be established for the early detection and monitoring of macroeconomic imbalances to ensure high quality statistics. however, it is particularly encouraging to follow the logic of the macroeconomic imbalance procedure in the development of this legislation. in this context, it is important to underline the need for full alignment with both regulation (ec) no 223/2009 of the european parliament and of the council of 11 march 2009 on european statistics and the european statistical system (ess) and the european system of central banks, which are both responsible for producing many of the statistics underlying the mip data. finally, i agree that the competent committee of the european parliament should be given the opportunity to invite the heads of the national statistical institutes to participate voluntarily in the hearings.
in writing. - the misconception that the main problem of the eu economy is the budget deficit persists. in fact, many countries around the world are doing the opposite. the real problem is that economic policies based on the maastricht criteria favour the rich countries in the centre while keeping the periphery countries in the colonial rank. the only positive is that it strengthens the camp of eu sceptics, and it is growing rapidly. i had to reject such an unfair statistical system designed to serve and maintain economic policies contrary to our national interests.
in writing. - i have reservations about the eu-us cooperation. it is enough to think that the computer technology used in the eu, and especially the software, is of us origin, which is used for espionage, as confirmed by mr snowden. i have no right to limit the possibilities of our domestic researchers, so i supported the material, but it would be very timely to put research cooperation on a new footing. of course, this would require a strong europe of strong nation states, not the present bankrupt mob.
in writing. - i voted for the aid from the central fund to the workers of the spanish textile factory that went bankrupt because of the far east dumping. of course, because we must help all those in need. i should point out that some of the bankruptcies of eu companies are a consequence of the wto agreement, and therefore the eu itself is to blame. our domestic textile factories went bankrupt partly because of this, partly because of the colonial and market-buying actions of the companies of the central countries. but our workers have not received compensation from the central fund! spaniards get 1,500 euros per head and their monthly salary was over 1,000 euros, which is a dream for most of us, thanks to the eu and our governments serving the interests of multinational corporations.
in writing. - as chief whip, my duty is to ensure the integrity of the people's party group's voting, which is reflected in the fact that i am the one who sets the position for the whole people's party group during the plenary votes. however, the hungarian people's party delegation is actively working to promote the interests of our country, and we represent our own national interests in the european parliament, so it happens that the position of the hungarian fidesz/kdnp delegation differs from the people's party position. in order not to contradict myself due to my duty as vice-president, i did not participate directly in the vote on the 2011 adjustment of the salaries and pensions of eu officials, when the group voted differently from the hungarian members in the roll-call vote. i did not press the ballot button, but i did raise my hand to indicate to the pp group the voting position that had been agreed upon previously.
in writing. - as chief whip, my duty is to ensure the integrity of the people's party group's voting, which is reflected in the fact that i am the one who sets the position for the whole people's party group during the plenary votes. however, the hungarian people's party delegation is actively working to promote the interests of our country, and we represent our own national interests in the european parliament, so it happens that the position of the hungarian fidesz/kdnp delegation differs from the people's party position. in order not to contradict myself due to my duty as vice-president, i did not participate directly in the vote on the 2012 adjustment of the salaries and pensions of eu officials, when the group voted differently from the hungarian members in the roll-call vote.
in writing. - if the report is accepted, an organization could give an opinion on whether serbia should join the european union or not. in the name of such an organization, the role of freedom and democracy is somewhat cynical. in fact, only serbian citizens have the right to decide by referendum what they want. they need to be properly informed before the referendum, not the "maybe you're a pastry chef in vienna" type of thing. an even more important condition is that serbia must first ensure that the indigenous hungarians living there have all the rights they deserve. and their education must be erased from the historical lies. the hungarian government is also responsible for enforcing this, because they are not willing to do it themselves.
in writing. - i supported this report because it stated that the financial crisis had exposed significant weaknesses in financial supervision, both in individual cases and in the financial system as a whole. the supervisory bodies were also needed because national supervisory models were not able to keep pace with financial globalisation and there were serious shortcomings in the areas of cooperation, coordination between national authorities, consistency in the application of union law and trust. the supervisory framework, which is also part of this report, had to be strengthened in order to reduce the risk and severity of future financial crises. it is appropriate to note in this material that, in addition to the establishment of supervisory authorities, it is appropriate to develop a single rulebook to ensure consistent harmonisation and uniform application of the rules. it is clear that in the post-crisis era, we must ensure that, for example, otc transactions are sufficiently deregulated. it is therefore appropriate to apply higher capital requirements to otc derivative transactions that could not be centrally cleared in order to adequately reflect the higher risks associated with them. furthermore, i am convinced that greater integration of european supervision is needed to ensure that supervision reflects the increasing integration of financial markets within the union.
in writing. - the 2008 financial crisis exposed a number of banking and investment speculation and fraud. anyone who is even a little bit interested in the subject can access more and more background information and wonder how money could have gotten so far away from its original function and become such a self-contained wealth-creating tool. it's not right in a world where maybe only three or four percent of money is doing its job. the report makes some progress in this area, i.e. in restricting speculation, and should be supported.
in writing. - this report is highly welcome and important as it sets rules for payment service providers to transmit data on the originator and the beneficiary at all stages of the payment chain, thus contributing to the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing. in order to combat money laundering, which costs billions of euros each year, it is essential that the law enforcement authorities of the member states respond in a coordinated manner and that a standardised procedure for financial institutions and payment service providers is introduced. the purpose of this regulation on money transfers is to achieve the overall objective of combating money laundering and terrorist financing more effectively by increasing the transparency of all types of transfers of funds, both domestic and cross-border, thereby facilitating the tracking of electronically transferred funds by criminals and terrorists by law enforcement authorities. i agree with the commission proposal which aims to set up a system to record transfers of funds in any currency sent or received by payment service providers established in the union, including any information relating to the originator and the recipient of the funds. an important objective of this material is to ensure that payment service providers are not only suspicious of missing or incomplete information, but that their risk-based approach enables them to identify suspicious transfers and take appropriate action, including on transfers of unusually large amounts or executed in an unusual manner.
in writing. - i support the commission's proposal to improve the transparency of financial transactions by introducing clearer rules, while ensuring that the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing is not compromised while making it more effective. this is closely linked to the money transfer regulation, which aims to provide law enforcement authorities with access to the client data accompanying money transfers, facilitating the detection of terrorist funds. the nature of money laundering and terrorist financing has changed significantly with technological developments and the proliferation of new tools available to criminals. given the diversity of threats, the financial action task force (fatf) was created to prevent money laundering through banks and financial institutions. the aim is to develop a uniform international standard that does not differentiate between domestic and cross-border transactions. at the same time, the risk of illicit financial flows from developing countries, which may also target european and north american financial institutions, should not be ignored.
in writing. - the economic clean-up and the successive reforms of european financial supervision are unfortunately not enough when billions of euros are lost to money laundering and uncontrolled, dubious international movements of funds. the primary focus should be on prevention, in particular, in preventing the laundering of proceeds from transactions arising from various criminal activities through the international financial system. the report would improve the european regulation of money laundering and illicit financial flows in three ways. first of all, the functioning of the business registers needs to be improved, since it is indeed absurd that in a transaction we do not know the identity of the final beneficiary. i agree that it's a company's responsibility to know its customers and to know who the ultimate beneficiaries are. i also support the idea of somehow linking and making interoperable the business registers in the member states and making them accessible to the authorities and to the obliged entities. in any event, the precise risk assessment required to assess money laundering would require a comprehensive assessment covering the extent of money laundering, the risks associated with each relevant sector and the most common means used to launder illicit proceeds. the third part of the report, which is part of the holistic approach, deals with the prevention objectives, which must be targeted and proportionate, while respecting, of course, the eu legal order and the right of european citizens to data protection. for these reasons, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i welcome the commission's proposal to review directive 2005/60/ec to help fight terrorism and organised crime and to strengthen the eu's financial system. as money laundering is a well-known cross-border crime, it is essential that the eu plays a central role in efforts to curb illicit capital flows. one of the main challenges facing counter-terrorism in detecting terrorist financing is that of non-profit organisations, non-governmental organisations (ngos), which often operate under the guise of charity and channel large sums of money to terrorist groups. however, there is a significant difference between classic money laundering and money laundering for terrorist financing. the purpose of traditional money laundering is to funnel black money from a crime that has already been committed into legitimate financial systems. however, terrorist groups funnel money through legal or apparently legal entities to get the money to groups that can use it to finance their activities. the problem for prevention and detection is that very often they operate under umbrella organisations, but the umbrella organisation itself is legitimate. in order to prevent such situations, it is appropriate to require that non-profit organisations operate with the utmost transparency, use only official bank accounts and make transfers through verifiable channels. i therefore support strengthening cooperation between member states' financial intelligence units and making the risk assessment of money laundering at eu level clearer.
in writing. - you can only support it if you want to prevent money laundering and terrorist financing. meanwhile, the eu is also home to a number of tax havens and multinational companies, and the banking system is largely speculative. there are some limited results, but the real solution would be to return to the practice of regulating banks and other financial institutions that was followed for three decades after the second world war. commercial and investment banking should be separated, the megabanks should be broken up and the monetary system should be used for its original purpose.
in writing. - the report covers the point that weapons have often been replaced by banking assets to achieve goals such as colonization, political expansion. if aid were the goal, the european union would first and foremost help its own needy people, but practice shows that it also blackmails such member countries, as in the case of greece, italy, ireland, portugal, etc. such methods are incompatible with hungarian traditions and values, with morality. of course, those who have made their fortunes through colonization and slave labor hardly understand this.
in writing. - i welcome the report on the proposal for a directive on electronic invoicing in public procurement because i strongly believe that paper-free public administration and the use of electronic invoicing in public procurement is to be supported. unfortunately incompatible standards in individual member states as well as many different requirements, standards, networks and rules governing electronic invoicing are excessively complex for enterprises and give rise to legal uncertainty. in addition, they form obstacles in cross-border procurement procedures and therefore enterprises tend to avoid the hassle of doing such. for this reason i believe that these obstacles need to be removed in order to promote competitiveness and better functioning of the internal market. i entirely support the importance and relevance of the aim of this proposal which first and foremost is to solve the problems of interoperability in cross-border invoicing by developing a european standard. i find it necessary to highlight the fact that the directive does not impose a binding european standard but calls for linking the national standards by which it facilitates bringing these national systems more in line with each other. smes could particularly benefit from these simplifications.
in writing. - we live in a digital world, with all its benefits and drawbacks. most trade and services take place on the international stage in general, but also in public procurement. however, there are currently a number of legal requirements and technical standards for electronic invoices which need to be eliminated in order to facilitate cross-border payments. this technical regulation is therefore clearly to be supported and also helps to preserve forests. the icing on the cake would be to give the new member states a decent role in the procurement of the old member states.
in writing. - i voted for the eib's annual report, as the bank has contributed to europe's economic growth in recent years by providing extended loans to smes. it should be borne in mind that the eib's stated mission and primary tasks include ensuring the balanced and equitable development of the internal market with a view to helping to implement the union's priorities by selecting economically viable projects suitable for investment in the union. it is well known that smes, which account for more than 80% of private sector employment, are considered to be the backbone of the eu economy and the main driver of growth and employment in europe; i therefore welcome the fact that the bank's annual report places particular emphasis on promoting better access to finance for smes and also targets more than eur 19 billion in loans to them. however, the eib continues to pursue a risk-averse policy in its lending and thus limits the options available to potential borrowers. the lack of transparency in the field of credit facilities is another problem, in particular as regards information on final beneficiaries. therefore, i agree with the report that calls on the bank not to act as a commercial bank but to increase its internal risk-taking capacity, and therefore to identify and select projects with higher added value and higher risk, and to provide a comprehensive assessment and data on its various loan placements.
in this report, which deals with equal opportunities for women and men, the most important thing for me was to address a dilemma. it's not a dilemma, it's the expression of a contradiction. and this is the next one: everybody can see that all over europe there is a demographic disaster. hungary is no exception, and my own country doesn't have enough children. that's one of the facts. the other fact is that society continues to perceive childbearing as a woman's private matter, her responsibility, her own business, especially in the workplace. if she is of childbearing age, she should be aware that her employer may refuse to hire her for certain jobs, may remove her from the job, may force her to work part-time, for example. this is the contradiction that must be resolved if we are to end the demographic catastrophe. it must be recognized that on the one hand, the birth of children places a responsibility on fathers, on employers, and on society as a whole. the bringing forth and caring for children can no longer be viewed as a private matter and a private problem of women.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report, which reaffirms that equality between women and men is a fundamental right enshrined in both the treaty on european union and the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. i welcome the emphasis on the need for further action, as there are still many inequalities between men and women, whether in women's rights as human rights, career and employment opportunities and pay, access to education and health services, participation in the economy and decision-making processes or political representation. i would also like to highlight the economic dimension of the problem i have outlined, as the european union is currently facing the most serious economic and financial crisis since the great depression of the 1930s, and i believe that gender equality is a key economic tool for promoting fair and inclusive economic growth. reducing occupational inequalities is not only an objective for equality but also for the efficiency and flexibility of the labour market. uncertain employment particularly affects women and this situation also leads to inequalities in access to public services. i believe that the european commission should step up its efforts to ensure that eu directives on equal treatment for women and men are enforced in all member states.
in writing. - eighty years after the first international women's day in 1917, the treaty of amsterdam in 1997 made gender equality a community objective. despite the many advances that have been made in the european union since then, and largely thanks to the union, these gains are too unevenly distributed among different groups of women, and millions of girls remain unreachable today. the number of women living in poverty has increased disproportionately compared to their male counterparts and women represent a majority of all groups at risk of poverty and social exclusion. women members of the continent's most populous and most marginalized minority, roma women, are the most vulnerable group in the european union, according to numerous studies. roma women are even more likely to be poor than roma men, and roma women who are otherwise disadvantaged, such as women with disabilities and the elderly, single or widowed single parents or those in foster care, are at increased risk of social exclusion and marginalisation. in addition, in disadvantaged rural areas, roma women often work in the informal economy, are not registered on the formal labour market, or work on short-term contracts, which raises serious questions about their social rights, such as their rights during pregnancy, maternity leave, pension rights and access to social security.
in writing. - i voted against the report because it violates the principle of subsidiarity, and seeks to interfere with policies that are clearly within the competence of the member states, such as family policy or health care. i think the left is using a double standard on equal opportunity issues. when i produced a specifically balanced draft report on discrimination in the empl committee, the left voted it down in silence because they didn't like that i was treating their preferred areas the same as any other areas. the zuber report did not follow this line, it was not balanced and it was not overstretched. as a person committed to equal opportunities, i had no choice but to vote against the report, holding up a mirror to the left.
in writing. - as chief whip, my job is to ensure the voting discipline of the epp group, which is reflected in the fact that i am the one who sets the position for the whole epp group during the plenary votes. however, the hungarian people's party delegation is actively working to promote the interests of our country, and we represent our own national interests in the european parliament, so it happens that the position of the hungarian fidesz/kdnp delegation differs from the people's party position. in order to avoid any contradiction with my duties as vice-president, i did not vote directly on the vote on equality between women and men, in the case of some amendments, when the group voted differently from the hungarian members in the roll-call votes. i did not press the ballot button, but i did raise my hand to indicate to the pp group the voting position that had been agreed upon previously.
in writing. - the present and future of the eu's review of freedom of information and public access to documents has been discussed on several occasions in this parliamentary term. however, the positions were not converging: the majority of the european left wants to ensure full and practically unlimited publicity and access to virtually all documents of the institutions of the european union. as a former opinion-maker in the committee on petitions, i myself supported certain objectives, in particular the objective of ensuring transparency, since trust in public institutions is one of the most important indicators of a democratic society. the efforts to make the work of the eu institutions more transparent and to develop good administrative techniques can only be welcomed. however, the proposals, which are mainly from the left, do not contain specific guarantees and clear statements that the exercise of the right to information does not infringe on the one hand the right to privacy and on the other the protection of classified information whose disclosure would endanger the security of citizens. i believe that the overriding public interest cannot in itself override either data protection considerations or legitimate encryption in the field of law enforcement. in my draft opinion for the committee on petitions, i also sought to find a way of ensuring the desired balance between publicity, privacy rights and the enforcement of security in eu legislation.
as a hungarian, i could not vote in favour of the report on the work of the committee on petitions. the work of the committee on petitions, which, among other things, shamelessly rejected a petition related to the law on the exclusion of dual citizenship in slovakia, thereby grossly violating the rights and interests of hungarians in the upper town. we hungarians stand up for the indigenous national communities living in our separated territories, as demonstrated yesterday in szeklerland by the march of tens of thousands of people under the szekler flag, a demonstration demanding szekler autonomy, also enjoying the support of the european greens, which i thank in this way. the basques and the catalans have also stood for what the un has defined as the right of all peoples, all nations, to self-determination. this is a human rights issue, so we ask and demand that the european union also stand by the szekler's self-determination.
in writing. - with the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, the community acquis in the field of the charter of fundamental rights and the european citizens' initiative became the framework for the work of the committee on petitions. i am pleased that the rapporteur has gone beyond the standards of annual reports and has taken a hard look at the committee work and working methods of the whole parliamentary term. the statistics show that no less than 10 000 citizens' complaints were submitted to the ep during the cycle, but only 60% of them concerned genuine eu competences. i consider it urgent that the petitions received be dealt with in an efficient, transparent and timely manner. citizens' complaints point to weaknesses in the functioning of the eu institutional system that need to be addressed, such as competency gaps. we can think, for example, of the situation of national minorities, which, although only indirectly subject to eu regulation, is nevertheless convinced by the number of complaints from citizens that the committee on petitions should find a solution to these problems in the next cycle. the charter of fundamental rights can serve as a compass for the proper handling of minority complaints.
in writing. - i welcome the report, given that horticulture as an agricultural sector is of prime importance and deserves increased attention, as it accounts for 18% of the total value of eu agricultural production and is worth over eur 50 billion. i think it is important to highlight, in addition to its economic importance, its impact on employment, since the fruit and vegetables sector employs some 550 000 people and is of great importance to the economy of areas within the union where unemployment is generally high. i support the proposal to support the eu horticultural sector through innovation, research and development, energy efficiency and security, climate change mitigation and to make it more competitive on the world market. i also believe that producers should be given easier access to third country markets and exporters should be supported in overcoming the growing number of non-tariff barriers. selling locally produced fruit and vegetables on regional markets is, in my view, a priority. i also strongly support and encourage the various educational activities such as the eu school fruit scheme or national programmes such as the uk's grow your own potato and cook your own potato sectoral schemes, which promote the consumption of fruit and vegetables.
in writing. - i welcome the report in the light of its emphasis on the absolute prohibition of torture under international law and humanitarian law, as well as under the un convention against torture. it also stresses that torture is one of the most serious violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms, causes terrible harm to millions of individuals and their families, and is not justified under any circumstances. i would like to stress the importance of the application of accountability and rehabilitation policies and support the inclusion of the three measures on the eradication of torture in the eu action plan on human rights and democracy, but specific and measurable benchmarks are needed to assess their implementation. i note with regret that the implementation of the eu guidelines on torture remains inadequate and therefore urge the european external action service (eeas) and the member states to give new impetus and priority to the implementation of the guidelines. i support more ambitious and concrete measures to eradicate torture, such as more effective sharing of information and burdens, and the implementation of training and joint initiatives, and believe it is essential that the guidelines are accompanied by detailed implementing measures, which are also communicated to eu heads of mission and member states' representations in third countries. i welcome the call for a regular review of the instruments used in torture or capital punishment.
in writing. - the un has taken numerous significant steps to prohibit torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment and to make the prohibition an international norm. such steps include the establishment of the committee against torture and the implementation of the un convention against torture and its optional protocol. sadly, despite all of this, the practice of torture continues to be practiced around the world. in 2012, the european union updated the guidelines on torture, which clearly commits member states to fulfilling international obligations to prohibit torture and degrading treatment in the fight against terrorism. however, it is a fact that torture is used as a method of interrogation by law enforcement agencies in many countries. support any eu effort or commitment to eliminate the practice of torture and other inhuman treatment.
on behalf of the ppe group. in an age where virtually everything we do, from making a phone call to paying with a card to sending an email or using social networks, is done online and involves the recording of our personal data, it is vital to adopt a regulation that meets the challenges of the age, that allows for opportunities but prevents abuse. i remember well the time when we were fighting for our freedom to not be monitored, to not have access to our data. grotesquely, a generation or two later, our young people today are doing this voluntarily. they make their personal information available to everyone. our citizens are not always aware that the issue of protecting their data, their rights, their right to be forgotten or erased, is as important as the issue of gaining our freedoms decades ago. we all have an interest in good, usable, practical regulation that helps to ensure the protection of personal data of individuals, but that does not hinder our small and medium-sized businesses and does not undermine the existing and well-functioning data protection standards in each member state.
i would like to quote the main finding, the first point of the chapter, from the so-called snowden report, or the surveillance scandal report, which is being debated today in the european parliament's plenary. the information available and the investigation provide convincing evidence of the existence of extensive, complex and technologically advanced systems developed by the intelligence services of the united states and some member states to collect, store and analyse, on an unprecedented scale, indiscriminately and without any specific suspicion, communications from all citizens worldwide, including content data, location data and metadata. my fellow citizens of europe! if anyone has had any illusions about so-called western-style democracy, i think they can forget it now. that was, by the way, one sentence from a 50-page report that i quoted, and if anyone has any illusions about the european parliament being more than some kind of umbrella organisation for various financial and economic interest groups, please look around this room. of the nearly 800 members of parliament who are debating such a significant report, we are again about fifty. this speaks for itself, especially in the light of the european elections on 25 may. i thought the mainstream parties would at least bring some representatives here for show, as a bio-scene, but even that was not considered.
i would like to ask how this is compatible with the role of the president, which is that, after mr borghezio's very apt speech on the role of the bilderberg group, you, as president, told our colleague who was trying to ask him a question, with a blue card, that you thought it was worth asking? how can you reconcile that with your role as president, and will that be in the minutes of this meeting? thank you very much. more so, because he was stripped of his blue card by our congressman.
blue-card question. – may i ask you why you are saying no? i mean, is this your concept of democracy, that your political enemies are not allowed to use the same kind of procedural rules as you do? if i may, i would like to tell you that, under the case law arising from the european convention of human rights and several other international obligations of european member states, people should not be extradited to countries where they might face either the death penalty or torture. knowing the united states’ practice, i think edward snowden would face both options: the death penalty and, being aware of guantanamo and all the rest, there is a good chance that he could face torture. so would that not be in the picture when we talk about the extradition of snowden?
the draft legislation to review and revise the single european sky rules also raises a number of important issues. i fully agree with the european commission that the current ses framework needs to be reworked as it is still not working effectively. the commission's proposal before us is flawed, however, because it clearly favours the larger operators and makes it impossible for smaller operators, especially those in the new member states, including air traffic controllers in hungary, to operate. the separation of air navigation services from supporting services is precisely the opposite of the objective of the ses ii plus concept. it leads to the further strengthening of the large providers that already have a dominant position on the market and thus to an increase in costs. it creates a barrier to entry that restricts competition in the long term, posing a risk from a strategic and even national security perspective.
, in writing. i would like to congratulate my colleague, mr marinescu, on the preparation of this report. we have had an excellent working relationship for many years, but i have to make my comments: the amendments proposed to the draft regulation clearly show a further strengthening of the commission's powers (prb, easa, possibility of delegated acts, performance plans, etc.) and the spread of industrial partnership concepts, which may create a disadvantage for hungary. however, there were two areas where partial backtracking was made from the commission's original proposals. on the one hand, the mandatory legal separation of support services has been removed from the text (although the concept itself has not disappeared), on the other hand, the rules on the involvement of airspace users have been relaxed, only consultation is required instead of approval. overall, the adoption of the sesii+ draft law could create a worrying situation, and i therefore urge all my colleagues to exercise extreme caution when voting on the report. long-term interests must be considered in the first place.
first of all, i'd like to thank mr. mayer for his excellent work. and i thank you not only for this work, but for previous reports on similar subjects. he has worked on a number of passenger rights and travel-related reports and has always added value to his work. indeed, the report is necessary because travel habits, booking patterns have changed significantly in recent years. it's almost like the reservation's been rerouted to the online interface. i would just like to highlight a few areas, the most important of which i consider to be the question of price increases. i think it is important that only after some external factor has occurred is it possible for the tour operator or the travel agency to raise the price and this too has been limited. i am glad, however, that it was not set at 10%, as the commission had originally proposed, but at 8%. i mean, i think that could have been a problem for a lot of small travel agencies. the next topic i think is important to mention is the protection of personal data. it is important that we can ensure the protection of personal data in these circumstances. the question of strict liability is one of these and very balanced regulation has been achieved in this respect. a realistic proposal has been formulated for both businesses and consumers. i agree with mrs rühle that although consumer protection is extremely important, it should not be over-regulated. this report has therefore been a useful, transparent and balanced report with added value in every way.
first of all, congratulations on your work, mr. mayer. we are talking about a very important new regulation for consumer protection, which overrides legislation that was adopted 14 years ago. the world has changed dramatically in the last 14 years. online bookings have become commonplace, with providers now offering not only accommodation and travel, but also a package of services, making it easier for customers to make decisions. however, this also entails risks, as service problems and customer complaints often present difficulties. the practical examples showed that when customers complained, the service providers tried to evade responsibility by pointing fingers at each other. the interest of european citizens requires us to make regulation clearer, more consumer-friendly, and to ensure that our citizens receive the services they buy at the quality they paid for. i welcome the legislative effort to promote this important consumer protection aspect.
on behalf of the ppe group. i am very pleased that after lengthy negotiations, a compromise was reached that is acceptable to all, and that will soon bring this important legislation into force. i thank the rapporteur, bas eichourt, for his willingness to compromise in all negotiations, and i thank my shadow-preservation colleagues for their cooperation. as the shadow rapporteur for the european people's party, i had a difficult task, as i had to bring together a number of demands from across the political spectrum, but i feel that i have succeeded. it was not an easy task, as the ambitious environmental objectives and the coordination of the needs of the market players required a great deal of coordination and a willingness to compromise on the part of all the players. we could not go beyond certain limits, because on the one hand, too strict regulation would have had a serious price-pushing effect, which we could not have caused to the population of europe, which was hit by the crisis. on the other hand, we also had to take into account the competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises, since in times of recession, every job is particularly valuable. you can see, ladies and gentlemen, that we have all been under a lot of pressure during these negotiations. allow me to mention some of the details of the new regulations. where possible, we have allowed for a reasonable period of time for all operators to prepare for the planned deadline for the introduction of market bans. we didn't put in a pre-load ban, instead we put in a tracking system to ensure that abuse is filtered out. we have not allowed the introduction of the allocation fee, instead the commission will prepare a report on the operation of the new system by 2017. so i think we've finally passed an excellent piece of legislation, and i thank you all for your cooperation.
i would like to congratulate bauer edit on his excellent report and commissioner andor for standing up so strongly for the union's core values. it's a shame about mr clarke, who can't even remember the names of his colleagues in the european parliament, but that's typical of british politics. the polish plumber case is back in a cycle, after 10 years the mummy, the central european worker, is back again. we could also recover the salaries and education costs of central european workers from the british, since there are so many graduates. i have in my hand the reply of mr. cameron. 38 meps wrote to mr cameron saying that it is a disgrace what is happening because britain has benefited a lot from the workers of central europe and it will lose a lot from this populism that characterizes it, and unlike spain, where there are a million romanian workers, italy, italy has a million workers, no problem, populism has triumphed in britain: it is a disgrace for europe, a disgrace for britain.
, in writing. many europeans are deterred from taking up a job abroad by a lack of information about their rights and obligations when taking up a job in another eu member state, but there are also widespread cases of discrimination that make it difficult to consider taking up the journey. it is essential that europeans know that the member state must ensure that they have the right to seek redress if they are disadvantaged in their work because they are foreigners. the new directive would oblige eu countries to set up national contact points for information and advice to workers and employers. however, i also believe that it is essential that the leaders and governments of the member states be thoroughly informed about the contractual rules they must respect in relation to the free movement of workers, the rights they must guarantee to european workers and the official data they must use to support their claims about 'aid tourists' and 'the immigration of eastern european workers'. open coordination and the exchange of good practice are the appropriate means.
european industry is of strategic importance for the union's economic growth and employment. in recent years, however, the role of our continent in the world economy has gradually declined. this, of course, also clearly indicates the task of the next european leadership: to strengthen the competitiveness of the european union. it is necessary to ensure that competitiveness considerations are an integral part of all union policies. the seriousness of the problem is well illustrated by the situation of the eu steel industry, which i have been reporting on for the past six months. the commission also found that the union industry was not able to fully benefit from the measures in force. the 2030 climate and energy package should take into account the economic performance, technological constraints and the low ambition of international actors to reduce emissions, which is key to the long-term competitiveness of union industry. but in addition to climate considerations, we must also reduce energy prices. energy prices that are two or three times higher than those of our competitors place an excessive burden on the union industry. brussels and the member states must therefore do everything possible to keep energy prices under control.
european citizens are interested in unemployment and poverty, not in the council's navel-gazing debate. it is also worrying that, although the union has taken several steps in recent years to interconnect energy systems, several central european member states, including my country, hungary, would not have a real alternative if russian gas supplies were to be cut off. do the commission and the council deal with crisis management scenarios? europe's modest economic growth is still extremely fragile. that is why we must respond with extreme caution to the tensions in ukraine. a protracted political and economic cold war between the eu and russia could undermine the fragile european recovery. any economic sanctions would be a boomerang, whether imposed by russia or the european union. we must be very careful.
, in writing. ukraine should sign the association agreement as soon as possible. eu member states are working closely together to address the crisis in ukraine, and this is the key to a long-term solution. if the heads of state or government stick to their pro-integration positions as expressed in brussels and do not engage in a double-speak with the domestic public, the economic recovery will make european integration an unavoidable goal for almost all the union's neighbours. the establishment of a banking union and common financial governance, as well as the process of unification of the defence industry, should therefore be accelerated. hungarian bankers may not, but for the hungarians who keep their money there, a banking union would be important. if we can put a new economic engine in the sails of the union, we will not only solve our own economic and social problems, but western integration will also become an unavoidable necessity for the eastern partnership countries. we're pushing for a peaceful global order. war cannot be the eu's mission to maintain peace. the european socialist group is working intensively on the ukrainian crisis and its immediate resolution.
mr president, i want to look beyond the immediate issues, as the ukraine crisis is not free from the law of unintended consequences. to put it mildly, hitherto the ukrainian identity has been loose, but the events of the last few months are something else. the unexpected withdrawal from the association agreement with the eu by yanukovych, the subsequent maidan demonstrations, the revolution that followed the violence, the occupation of the crimea by stealth, the threat to carve up ukraine by russia and, finally, the fear of invasion have combined to cement a new ukrainian identity. if ever there was irony history, it is the thought that yanukovych and putin should be the new founding fathers of ukrainian nationhood. but this can be the basis of a new, inclusive ukrainian citizenship concept – the best guarantee of political stability, of democracy and of hope.
we, all of us here, as well as the transcarpathian hungarian community in ukraine, are among those who condemn the violence and trust in the european integration of a sovereign ukraine. but that's not going to be achieved by any means by abolishing the language rights of the community, the language rights of the minority. it is not clear why the new ukrainian parliament, among its first decisions, withdrew the law regulating the language rights of minorities, which applied to all minorities living in ukraine, including the 150,000 transcarpathian hungarian community. on the road to the european union, respect for minority rights is unquestionable. as well as honoring their memories. yesterday, ukrainian extremists burned down a hungarian monument again. so, non-violence, dialogue, but also full respect for the rights of national minorities is essential to resolve the situation in ukraine.
there's only one way to keep ukraine together, regionalization, a true federalism. there's such a difference between the western and eastern halves of the country. first of all, the rights of minorities should be widely guaranteed by law. this has not been promised by any ukrainian leadership in the last decade. it is to be condemned that yesterday ukrainian nationalists vandalized a hungarian historical monument on the vereckei pass. the status of the russian language as the state language in ukraine and the status of the ukrainian language in crimea should be restored. the secession of crimea, its return to russia, is not only the result of russian territorial policy, but also the demand for self-determination of millions of russian masses. the main problem at the moment is the tension between russian and ukrainian nationalism, threatening the two peoples... (the president cut the speaker off)
in writing. - thailand has both marine and freshwater aquaculture. however, some regulations, including environmental, consumer, labour and other fisheries regulations, are much more lenient than european rules. this often means that they can produce products at lower prices than those in europe, which can put europe at a serious competitive disadvantage on the world market. the protection of european freshwater aquaculture, including that of hungary, requires decisive action by all available means to ensure that our fish products are able to keep pace with their competitors not only in europe but also worldwide, with the interests of consumers in mind.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because gastronomy is a very important part of our cultural heritage. it is indispensable in cultural programmes and plays a major role in promoting tourism. however, the health rules for food should be known in schools and in households. gastronomy is closely linked to the agriculture of the different regions and their local products. your main goal should be to eat healthily and enjoy the pleasures of eating healthily. the gastronomic academies and the support system of the member states should promote agritourism. the essential importance of nutrition should be emphasised and the fact that gastronomy is an important cultural export product of the union and of each member state should be emphasised. the european commission should make it a priority to integrate european gastronomy into its cultural agenda.
in writing. - the appropriate transfer of nutrition knowledge would reduce healthcare costs and contribute to improving the health of the population, the quality of food and respect for the environment. in europe, several of the seven most important risk factors for premature death are linked to diet. such factors include high blood pressure, high cholesterol, an inadequate body mass index, and an inadequate intake of fruits and vegetables. lack of culture and education have made diet, even in developed societies, a major cause of various diseases that result in high health-care costs. poor diet is a major cause of obesity, anorexia, cardiovascular disease, diabetes, stomach and other diseases. therefore, it is essential to integrate food and nutrition, gastronomy and culture into education systems. on the other hand, we see that gastronomy and culinary arts are becoming increasingly important artistic and cultural expressions around the world. the european union recognises that hungarian cuisine is part of hungarian culture and the european parliament supports initiatives developed by the member states and their regions to promote and preserve the areas, landscapes and products that make up the local gastronomic heritage.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because i believe that improving the quality of education and dissemination of knowledge on gastronomy is of the utmost importance. in developed countries, due to lack of culture and/or education, malnutrition has become a fundamental cause of various diseases and illnesses, and these result in extremely high costs in public or private health care. poor diet and lack of physical activity are the primary causes of obesity, anorexia, cardiovascular disease, diabetes, stomach and other diseases. i consider that the factors highlighted in the report, education and awareness-raising and increasing sporting activities in schools and communities are essential to reduce such problems. i welcome the proposal that it is vital that the european union develops policies for nutrition and gastronomy education. i am also convinced, as the report shows, that gastronomy is a tool for growth and job creation in a number of sectors of the economy, including, inter alia, the hospitality industry, tourism, agri-food and research, and therefore deserves increased attention. i welcome initiatives to promote europe's gastronomic heritage, such as local and regional gastronomic fairs and festivals, and would welcome further programmes at european level.
in writing. - this resolution is particularly relevant today, when many people are eating plastic in cans or fast food restaurants. almost without exception, city dwellers suffer from digestive disorders of some sort, or are already sick or will soon be. the only real solution is to introduce people to the local foods of the country from childhood through education, so that they get used to and love the real flavors, not the glutamate-laced, flavored food supplements. plus, we need to revive the use of common sense that has nurtured and kept generations of us in good health and strength for centuries. it can't be harmful unless it's spoiled by some additive.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because i am convinced that the new data protection framework will bring improvements for both individuals and data controllers. the right to the protection of personal data should be given high priority, especially now that a number of changes have taken place, in particular as a result of technical developments in the field of data protection in relation to the processing of personal data, all of which re-emphasise the importance of the protection of individuals. unfortunately, there are concerns about the different ways in which the provisions of directive 95/46/ec on the protection of individuals with regard to the free movement of such data have been implemented in the member states. against this background, it has become increasingly difficult for individuals (data subjects) to exercise their right to the protection of their data. i believe that the different data protection requirements also hamper the development of the single market. i agree with the rapporteur that it is regrettable that the commission proposal does not cover cooperation in the field of law enforcement and i welcome the fact that a separate proposal has been tabled for this purpose. i consider this measure to be of the utmost importance in order to eliminate legal uncertainty. i support the contribution as a fundamental factor and believe that it should remain the cornerstone of the eu approach to data protection. i also welcome the built-in and default data protection that ensures that service providers actually only process data that is necessary for a specific purpose.
in writing. - i welcome the commission's proposals for reforming the eu's data protection rules (currently directive 95/46/ec), which it presented back in 2012 with the aim of adapting data protection to the changed circumstances of the digital world. the 1995 data protection provisions were adopted at a time when less than 1% of europeans used the internet. this is why we need to renew the 1995 rules in order to stimulate the digital market. this will allow for a significant reduction of administrative barriers combined with the current fragmentation of member states and a strengthening of consumer confidence in online services (e.g. e-commerce). the proposed regulation is expected to make a major step forward in modernising the data protection standards in the eu legal system.
in writing. - the proposal aims to extend the existing regulation, the pericles 2020 programme (the purpose of which is to protect the euro against counterfeiting) to member states which have not yet adopted the euro. the surveys carried out between 2004 and 2011 show that the programme has achieved its objectives and, in line with the rapporteur's proposal, i think it is worth continuing to extend the programme to all member states.
in writing. - some eu countries are not part of the euro area, but they also have a significant share of cash transactions in euro. at the same time, printing technologies are becoming more accessible to the average person. this educational project, which aims to help detect counterfeit money in non-euro area member states, should therefore be supported. it's a way to expose counterfeiters who work small. and the big fish are all happy and cuddly.
in writing. - the next important step in the process of rapprochement between the european union and hungary and the republic of azerbaijan within the framework of the eastern partnership is the agreement on visa facilitation. it plays a major role in helping us to understand each other's cultures, facilitating and promoting the pursuit of studies and research by young people and researchers, and contributing to the successful implementation of the region's democratization processes.
in writing. - i welcome the steps envisaged in the report, which the rapporteur has put forward to encourage the signing of action plans on the protection of children in armed conflict. the magnitude and gravity of the problem cannot be tolerated. in some conflicts, children are separated from their parents, conscripted into the military, forced to kill, or sexually exploited, with devastating, lifelong effects on their physical and mental development. estimates of the number of children involved in armed conflict currently range from 250,000 to 800,000. it is estimated that since 1996, six million children have been injured in armed conflict, and approximately two million have lost their lives. last year, on the international day against the use of child soldiers, a statement was issued that a number of countries and armed groups signed an action plan with the un to end the recruitment of minors, which has resulted in the release and reintegration of children into society and the prosecution of those responsible. the other parties were called upon to follow this example without delay, but this has not yet been fully implemented. i share the report's conviction that a comprehensive approach is needed to enhance law enforcement with armed non-state actors.
in writing. - a staggering amount of man-made substances are found in products called food, which are sold on store shelves in attractive packaging. a series of advertising campaigns claimed health benefits, and then, a little later, articles in the rare journals claimed otherwise. slowly, but surely, there is a growing number of conscious consumers who do not want to eat garbage and feed it to their children. they try to get information from the packaging. the presence of completely unnatural nanomaterials, which have been used for years but have not been labelled, will be reported in the future. but food grown in your own backyard without chemicals is the real thing, if you can afford it.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because i believe that the right to data protection is a fundamental right and that every european citizen should be guaranteed an adequate level of data protection and a higher level of data efficiency. i consider this question to be more timely than ever, given that rapid technological developments have created new challenges for the protection of personal data and the scale of data sharing and collection has increased dramatically, allowing for the use of personal data on an unprecedented scale. i consider the protection of personal data to be of paramount importance in this study, given the unprecedented amount of data available, stored, used and evaluated. i welcome the proposal that europe should decide how to use all this information, in particular in the field of law enforcement and in the prevention and fight against crime, without denying those fundamental rights and norms. to do this, we must seek to harmonise systems across member states. in my view, the strict requirements set out in the report on the lawfulness, fairness and transparency of the processing of personal data and on the prohibition of the transfer of personal data to other eu authorities or private parties, unless the transfer is in accordance with the law, are extremely important issues that should be given priority in the field of data protection.
in writing. - i welcome the proposal for a directive extending the 2008 council framework decision on the protection of personal data processed in the framework of police and judicial cooperation. the reasons include that the 2008 framework decision is not effective enough, as it only deals with cross-border cases and ignores the issue of data protection provisions for law enforcement. the rapid development of technology has created new challenges in the protection of personal data. as the amount of personal data disclosed increases, the storage and sale of data used for malicious and criminal purposes is becoming more common. the legal traditions of the member states have developed differently over the centuries in the area of police and judicial cooperation, and it should not be forgotten that european legislation is only a cautious way of modifying existing national traditions in this particularly sensitive area. i believe it is important to strike a healthy balance between data protection, which ensures the integrity and transparency of citizens' privacy rights, and ensuring that this does not compromise the effectiveness of law enforcement, which is the safety of citizens.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report calling for the implementation of the reform of air navigation services in the single european sky, as i believe that the single european sky initiative has not delivered the expected results. hungary has complied with the requirements, but i consider it important to highlight the regrettable fact that in many member states neither air fares and fares, nor the length of air travel or fuel consumption have been reduced to a sufficient extent as a result of the ongoing ses reform. despite efforts made by some member states committed to improving the situation of the european atm industry, airspace users, airlines and passengers have not experienced much of this in their daily activities and business. in line with the proposal, i believe that the implementation of the initiative would avoid the risk of the european aviation sector being further disadvantaged by external competition and a new wave of airline bankruptcies. i welcome the rapporteur's argument that the single european sky should be more inclusive and should also allow for more flexible use of airspace. i am convinced that the proposal responds adequately to the expectations of citizens, represents the interests of consumers to a sufficient extent and represents a balanced approach between the views of the sector and the needs of society.
in writing. - more and more people are flying, and the regulatory system is not uniform. the system appears to be working well, but the eu has found a new ground to intervene in processes that have not been working. the report certainly involves an increase in bureaucracy, but if it is given the magic phrase that unification is for the sake of security, then it is mandatory to support it. and when it comes to flying, even more so.
in writing. - today's plenary session of the european parliament voted by a large majority to revise the directive on package travel. the new rules clarify the rules on packages comprising different elements, such as flights, accommodation and car rentals. the new rules are clear and aim to ensure uniform rights for travellers in all member states. this will significantly strengthen travellers' rights and ensure that european citizens are not left vulnerable abroad in the future, either through the fault of the organiser or due to extraordinary external circumstances. i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - internet sales have significantly changed booking habits, so that many self-organized trips are now not covered by eu rules dating back to the 1990s or do not clearly articulate passenger rights. i supported the report because the new rules clarify the rules on travel packages made up of different elements such as flights, accommodation and car rentals. if the travel agency is destroyed during the holiday, then the new rules require the holidaymakers to be sent home. passengers in difficulty should be informed of medical care and of the contact details of the consular post for repatriation assistance. if unavoidable and unforeseeable circumstances prevent passengers from returning home, the travel agent must provide them with accommodation of a similar quality to the one originally booked or pay the passenger's hotel bill for a maximum of eur 125 per night for a maximum of five days. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the eu.
in writing. - the revision of the package travel directive clarifies the rules on packages comprising different elements, including flights, accommodation and car hire. however, internet sales have significantly changed booking habits for package holidays, so that many self-organized trips are now not covered by the eu rules dating back to the 1990s. the new rules are clear and aim to ensure uniform rights for travellers in all member states. i voted in favour of a significant strengthening of passenger rights so that in the future eu citizens are not left vulnerable abroad because of the fault of the organiser or extraordinary external circumstances.
in writing. - the amendment is important for modernisation, because we live in a digital age. i consider that full harmonisation is in the interests of consumers and undertakings. i welcome the fact that the provisions will apply to online and offline travel business and that it clarifies the pre-contractual information that the retailer shall provide. it is very good that the report lays down penalties and clarifies the scope of travellers’ protection when purchasing combinations of travel services for the same trip or holiday by bringing within its scope different forms of online packages and assisted travel arrangements. it broadens the derogations concerning ancillary contracts to encompass ancillary services provided as a subsidiary element of the package and clarifies the notion of ‘assisted travel arrangement’, which has been renamed ‘linked’ travel arrangements. the report also gives the possibility to travellers to take up an equivalent package if the organiser alters a main component of the package travel contract unilaterally, so that an alteration of the price will only be possible on very specific circumstances. prompt assistance to the traveller in difficulty is also welcomed. finally, it is good that the directive plans to strengthen travellers’ insolvency protection by clarifying the liability of retailers and / or organisers.
in writing. - for decades, vacationers have been tricked by the plethora of travel agencies that offer relatively cheap prices and a full range of services, only to discover at the destination that each attraction has to be paid for separately. the report is quite bureaucratic, but it defines what information the traveller should be given in order to be supported. you can make progress on small things, even if it's with significant delays. in my country, many people would like to rest at home for a few days. or if they had a job, a vacation.
in writing. - f-gases have a global warming effect of up to 22,000 times that of carbon dioxide, making them a major contributor to global warming. however, with the rapid expansion of air-conditioning and refrigeration technology, the use of f-gases would continue to increase worldwide in the absence of appropriate regulation. at the same time, i believe it is important to avoid overly stringent standards that would make it impossible for eu industry and smes to compete. this is unacceptable in the years of protracted crisis. with the regulation adopted today, i have supported a compromise that will allow both the competitiveness of european industry to be maintained and the environmental objectives set by the eu to be achieved.
i was faced with a serious dilemma as to how to vote on the report on the free movement of workers. it confirms and puts into practice that, for example, a hungarian worker working in austria or germany or another european country should have exactly the same rights in terms of access to work, working conditions, social and tax rules, access to training, trade union membership, access to housing, education for children, etc. i voted yes, of course, because there are so many hungarian workers abroad that i cannot vote no on such a question. but what if, because of the favorable conditions, everyone is leaving hungary? this could be prevented by the same foreign employers, employers, retail chains, factories, assembly plants, etc. providing hungarian workers with the same or similar wages in hungary as in western countries.
in writing. - all citizens of all member states are equal in the union, we need not fear each other, european union workers who want to try their luck in other member states. this is particularly important if we are to remain competitive on the world market. the free movement of workers is one of the four freedoms which form the basis of the union and cannot be treated separately or unlawfully restricted. as a member of the european parliament for fidesz, i therefore condemn in the strongest possible terms any attempt to stigmatize and discriminate against citizens of eastern europe. i therefore condemn any initiative which calls into question the right of free movement of citizens of the eastern european union. any restriction on that right would fundamentally jeopardise the unity and institutional order of the european union. the report makes a significant contribution to the free movement of workers in the european union.
in writing. - i welcome the report because i am convinced that ensuring the free movement of workers is one of the cornerstones of the development of a genuine eu labour market, as it allows workers to have more job opportunities and to make better use of their skills. i support the idea that workers should be granted freedom of movement to move to another member state for the purpose of work and to reside there for that purpose. i am pleased to note that on 15 december 2011 the european parliament adopted its resolution on the free movement of workers within the european union, which clearly calls for measures to ensure the application of this right to eu citizens in the interests of the union as a whole, with a view to accelerating the creation of the single market and the creation of the eu labour market. i also think it is important to highlight in the report the importance of transparency and the importance for both workers and employers of eliminating unnecessary administrative burdens when employing nationals of other member states. such simplification can not only make crossborder employment more efficient, but also ensure that both parties have a clear understanding of their rights and obligations, resulting in stronger and more effective legal protection. at the same time, i welcome the emphasis in the report on the need to promote equal opportunities across the union, which should be a priority when considering employment within the union.
in writing. - it cost billions of euros to build the satellite navigation system and it will cost taxpayers' money in the future. the benefits are uncertain, mostly in terms of independence from other external providers, or in terms of greater accuracy as a new technology. there would have been a better place for that money, but if so much was spent on the system, then the agency budget associated with its operation had to be approved with the appropriate framework. it is sobering, however, that the agency's headquarters is in a small country.
in writing. - i did not support the report because, while the majority of the proposals made to protect fundamental rights are correct, i believe that two factors, the increasing emphasis on security and technological progress, have combined to allow states to know more about their citizens than ever before. however, it is questionable where the healthy line is drawn between the protection of citizens' privacy and personal data and the free flow of information about them, a balance which i do not believe an eu-us framework agreement could comfortably guarantee. among the initiatives, i would also like to highlight the requirement to meet the criteria for the transfer of personal data for commercial purposes at the highest level of standards, which i believe is in any case in need of further specification. similarly, the protection of the rule of law and the fundamental rights of eu citizens (including from threats to press freedom), the right of the public to impartial information and the protection of professional secrecy (including attorney-client privilege), as well as the enhanced protection of whistleblowers raise additional issues for me, which i cannot support without a precise clarification and full protection and guarantee of fundamental rights.
in writing. - the european parliament is concerned that the nsa's mass surveillance activities could lead to sensitive data being transferred uncontrolled to us databases. many argue for the suspension of the conventions (tftp, pnr, safe harbour). the libe review board's summaries and the october visit of the libe delegation to washington make it clear that trust in the transatlantic alliance must be restored by strengthening economic cooperation and ensuring the right balance between data protection and the right to security. referring to the communications from the commission, europol and swift, there was no breach of contract with regard to the tftp agreement. the issue of intelligence and police cooperation, the latter of which has improved significantly between member states in recent years, should be given special attention. the commission has confirmed that everything in the pnr area is in line with the original agreement and that internal security controls are functioning properly. i am firmly opposed to the suspension of the pnr convention (the need for which is illustrated by the tragedy of the malaysian passenger plane which disappeared just a few days ago). the majority of the ep is also in favour of suspending tftp. i would consider such a move rash and irresponsible. the tftp is a key instrument in the fight against terrorism. since neither the commission nor europol are aware of any misuse of the information provided by the tftp, i would not consider it fortunate to have a sudden weakening of the fight against terrorism and the creation of unnecessary security risks.
in writing. - the hungarian people's party group voted today not to support the göncz report, as the proposals contained in it go beyond the provisions of community law, violate the principle of subsidiarity, but the report does not offer sufficient guarantees that the proposed new mechanism would be applied objectively, without double standards. such a mechanism would only be acceptable if it could guarantee that it applies to all member states under the same conditions, without applying double standards and without using actual policy objectives. in the last decade, there have been many cases of actual violations of fundamental rights, confirmed by courts, in some member states, such as the serious violations in budapest in autumn 2006 or the case of malina hedvig, which also involved violations against national minorities. in these cases, the european parliament never acted militarily against the offenders, nor did the european commission evade any investigation. since there is no guarantee in the report that it proposes the creation of an objective mechanism, there is a good chance that it could only be used for politically motivated attacks, as we have seen in the case of hungary.
in writing. - the principle of subsidiarity is the most important provision of the european union, and one of the main factors in ensuring its diversity and competitiveness. the report attacks this very point and, moreover, seeks to give the european commission additional powers without adequate guarantees and safeguards. the new mechanism proposed in the document is questionable as to whether it will be adequate, balanced and proportionate, given that in the past there have been many cases of double standards by the eu institutions in violation of fundamental rights. think of the serious and violent violations in budapest in the autumn of 2006. since then, the participants who acted on behalf of the violent organizations have been held accountable in court. interestingly, the recently adopted report on the state of fundamental rights in 2013 already states that police and riot police should be clearly and unequivocally identifiable, almost 8 years after the events in hungary. unfortunately, in these cases, the european parliament never acted, just as the european commission has always resisted such investigations. a mechanism is needed that is genuinely automatic and applies even to the largest member states, and not only when the interests of a selected minority or social group are affected, but that can be applied without exception and that offers genuinely adequate guarantees of impartiality of enforcement. that is why i voted against the report.
in writing. - i voted no to the report by göncz kinga on the evaluation of the judiciary, the state of the rule of law. i find it incredible, and i think it is a sign of the european parliament's disrepute, that a member of parliament with no expertise in the field, who was a minister in a government that attacked its own people in the autumn of 2006, and who used the judiciary for vile political purposes in defiance of the rule of law, should write a report on this subject.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the preparation of the full convergence of the audiovisual world. the regulatory framework of the audiovisual media services directive has so far provided for certain minimum rules at european level for classical (linear) television content and non-linear electronic information and communication services and online services. with the digitalisation of broadcasting and media technologies, the convergence of technical transmission systems and the rapid development of mobile and hybrid terminal equipment, traditionally regulated broadcasting and on-demand services are now competing with previously unregulated content from the open internet on the same screen. the majority of european consumers continue to receive audiovisual content primarily through traditional television sets, but there is a strong trend in the complementary use of mobile terminals. this raises consumer, youth and data protection issues. the problem is widespread, but younger users in particular want to access audiovisual content and electronic services everywhere, at any time and on any device. i agree with the rapporteur that the main emphasis is on market-based funding and access models, but i also welcome the european commission's green paper which provides a comprehensive overview of all audiovisual sectors.
in writing. - i welcome the report on the preparation of the full convergence of the audiovisual world, because i believe that the questions raised by the increasing convergence of traditional broadcasting services and the internet, due to the ever more rapidly changing market structures, must be answered urgently at european level. i support the promotion of innovation based on convergence, as new forms of cooperation between businesses and sectors are needed to ensure that the user can access audiovisual content and electronic services anywhere, anytime and on any device. i believe that, in line with the report, the key is to increase access and transparency, and therefore to ensure non-discriminatory, transparent and open internet access for all users and providers of audiovisual services. i think it is important to highlight the report's view that broadband internet coverage is an essential condition for convergence and innovation (especially in rural areas) and i support the proposal to ensure that users are provided with it. this shortfall can be addressed through short-term investment campaigns.
in writing. - they're dumping an unlimited amount of information on humanity, which is the most effective way to completely dumb it down. but the digital world is also an opportunity for valuable knowledge to be mined. that report emphasizes the importance of a free and open internet, net neutrality, but also the potential for abuse of market dominance by content providers, so i supported it. the web is just a tool, it's up to the people, the education, the parents, what they use it for and how much of their lives is wasted on it by the young and the old.
in writing. - the european union has declared 2013 the european year of citizens, with the aim of promoting the rights associated with eu citizenship. the objectives of the theme year included the organisation of forums where stakeholders could discuss what the european union should look like in 2020. in addition to the public consultations, citizens of the union have also objected in a number of petitions to the fact that discrimination against national minorities continues to be experienced in some member states. the possibility and impact of the punitive loss of citizenship on the status of union citizen in the case of dual nationals merit particular attention. it is common knowledge that, according to the case law of the european court of justice, the conditions for citizenship are governed by the national legal systems of each member state. however, it should be stressed that in order to guarantee citizens' fundamental rights and in particular legal certainty, closer cooperation and a meaningful exchange of best practices between member states in the area of citizenship rights should be promoted. in my amendments to the report, i therefore urged that the relationship between the concepts of citizenship and citizenship of the union be clarified and that national minorities be granted all the rights guaranteed by the charter of fundamental rights of the union.
in writing. - i would like to welcome the fact that turkey has continued to implement legislation in the field of womenʼs rights and gender equality and addressing domestic violence in particular. there is a lot to achieve though in most areas, including equal access to education and the labour market, enhancing political representation, and combating violence against women and early or forced marriages. school enrolment rates need to rise and early school-leaving rates fall, particularly as regards disadvantaged groups, and roma especially. that the ministries for labour, national education and social planning have cooperated in establishing a national strategic action plan for roma inclusion is to be welcomed. in coming years this may serve as a roma inclusion strategy for turkey. in this respect, the founding of the roma peopleʼs forum of turkey with the participation of over 70 roma ngos is a major step, but the participation and involvement of roma communities must be ensured throughout the implementation of the action plan. i hope that this programme will bring about a substantial and tangible improvement in housing conditions for roma communities, increasing the employability of jobless roma and granting roma children equal access to quality education.
blue-card question. – mr hoang, do you not think that, if a government had conducted procyclical fiscal policies before the crisis, it is absolutely inevitable that it will continue with another procyclical policy after the crisis?
i have to say, madam president, in the eurozone, the biggest risk is deflation linked to insolvency. this is a remarkable success for the troika. structural reforms cannot be introduced without side effects. deflation in the euro area is becoming more likely for three reasons: first, today's economic performance in the euro crisis countries is lower than before 2008. this huge production gap will only slowly close. structural reforms need time and pressure to succeed. a second reason is the relative adjustments required in the euro crisis countries. costs and wages must fall, increasing the risk of deflation. a third reason is the very limited capacity of the european central bank to improve financing conditions in a sustainable way. the most important asset of a central bank is its credibility. the ecb has earned this credibility. credibility can be damaged by wrongdoing, but it can also be damaged by inaction. it is therefore time for the ecb to act swiftly and decisively.
i asked for a point of order, can i speak on that, or do i have a minute to get to the point, mr. president? okay, well, thank you, because you said five people could talk. thank you very much. it was shocking to hear during the debate the accounts in which my colleagues gave an account of the terrible misery and pain that the european union had caused, especially to workers, small farmers, small entrepreneurs. almost all over europe, but especially in the so-called - let's not sugarcoat it - colonized countries, the countries considered second-class. and what's even sadder is that the recipe they want to give us for this is more integration, more integration. more of the same thing that caused all this misery. instead of thinking about national self-determination. i wish for my country, hungary, to take our fate into our own hands, especially considering that as a "breaking news" i have just received the news that the colonizing european union wants to start a new case against hungary, this time because of our land law, by which we want to keep the hungarian land in the hands of hungarian farmers. it's outrageous, there's no other way but a popular vote... (the president cut the speaker off)
i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place on thursday 13 march 2014 at 12 noon. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
the next item is the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the union's priorities for the 25th session of the un human rights council (2014/2612 ((rsp))
it is astonishing how arbitrarily the european union has chosen to define the areas of human rights that are of paramount importance to it. i would suggest that one that the un has long treated as an absolute human rights issue, is known in the literature, in the english-language literature, as "land grabbing". the issue of land grabs as a human rights issue. this means that individuals and corporations in economically better-off countries buy up land in poorer countries, depriving the people of those poor countries or parts of them of their livelihood. this phenomenon has long characterized the third world, but unfortunately it also exists within the european union. my own country, hungary, is a victim of this. and i ask that the european union itself, in its legal disputes, treat this issue as a human rights issue, in accordance with un standards.
when my colleagues from the right, the left and the center sharply criticized the human rights defense of states that violate human rights, i remembered the biblical saying that if salt loses its flavor, what can you salt it with? the un and the european union will have an important task to find the salt with which human rights issues can be rationally sautéed. i have received five motions for resolutions tabled in accordance with rule 110 (2) of the rules of procedure. i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place on thursday 13 march 2014 at 12 noon.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the house of representatives, i welcome the report we have discussed today. i am pleased that we can finally debate a proposal aimed at achieving a high level of network and information security within the european union. i congratulate my colleague andreas schwab on the fact that he has managed to compile a dossier, proposing amendments to the commission's proposal that can improve legal certainty, strengthen the security and protection of individuals and privacy. its proposals will help individuals to control their personal data and to trust the digital environment. the report also helps to develop a culture of risk management and to improve information sharing between private and public actors. i welcome the proposals that require all member states to have well-functioning computer emergency response teams. however, i believe that the relationship between the new system and the proposed notification system under the gdpr may remain a serious problem. in my view, further clarifications are needed in this area. in addition to the above, the actual financial and administrative impact, including the total social costs, must of course also be taken into account. companies that produce their software by surface work cannot in all cases be protected by the clause in the user terms and conditions that they do not accept any liability for the malfunctioning of their software. they should be encouraged to ensure that the software they develop is safe and error-free to use. in my view, the key to the success of the directive is its ability to encourage active participation by market players. without it, you're doomed to failure. overall, i find the report supportive. i thank my colleague for his many years of work and i will certainly support him with my vote.
, in writing. as the people's party shadow rapporteur of the libe committee, i welcome mr schwab's report, which supports the commission's proposal for a high and uniform level of network and information security in the union. the report aims to ensure that operators of critical infrastructures are able to protect their systems against the latest threats. the operator of an energy network, a road network, a hospital or a banking system must ensure that the most appropriate solutions are used and that the equipment is always up to date. in the eu, cooperation has been voluntary, but has not proved very effective, as network and information security safeguards are struggling to keep up with the ever-changing threats. different member states have different capacities and preparedness, which is also a challenge. i support the rapporteur's proposal that each member state should choose the cybersecurity governance model that best suits it, but be careful to avoid duplication of institutional structures, which can cause parallelism and communication disruptions. i would like to draw attention to the fact that in most member states there are more than one cert (national network emergency response team) responsible for different events. however, the commission directive does not take into account the different nature and composition of the existing certs. it should also be ensured that the cloud computing environment provides competent protection for sensitive and critical infrastructure data.
in writing. - when i support a recommendation like this, which promotes the normal functioning of coastal countries, at least two things always come to mind. one is why it took so long to get here, and why the seas and oceans have to be polluted to such an extent. in fact, no one knows how much or what kind, but a tremendous amount of hazardous material has been dumped into the deep over the past 100 years. the other thing is that my country has lost its sea route as a result of an unjust peace dictate.
in writing. - the eu-sceptic camp is growing stronger, and more and more people are seeing that the european union cannot continue to function in this form. it is characterized by unskilled leaders, disorganized operations and the erosion of nation-states, internal colonization. this road can only lead to the abyss. the report is a good example of the chaos that exists when the eu's different policies are at odds. for example, the fight against poverty in the developing world is growing precisely because the eu is forcing market liberalization through the wto, destroying small-scale local producers. so the money that our taxpayers spend on aid is ultimately going to make the multinational corporations rich.
the majority report on key human rights issues has adopted, as is customary, a completely inhuman and anti-community conception of human rights. so i voted for one of the alternative reports, and i hope my constituents will understand why, if i quote from this report, which highlights, among other things, that in 2013, the richest 10 percent of the world's population owned 86 percent of the world's wealth. it considers that the issue of the distribution of goods in the world should be a priority for the 25th session of the human rights council, as it is primarily an obstacle to the exercise of economic and social rights. it also points out, inter alia, that un member states should promote access to natural and vital resources and land, and food self-determination and food security as means of reducing poverty and unemployment. it also states that debt servicing is now a matter of concern for the majority of countries and serves as a pretext for the implementation of austerity measures, also known as structural adjustment measures, and calls for these debts to be discharged in respect of the eu member states concerned. it's a human-centered and community-centered interpretation of human rights.
in writing. - i have voted in favour of the recommendations made by the european parliament for the next meeting of the un human rights council. it is important that the eu is actively involved in the work of the human rights council, speaking with one voice on behalf of the member states. i would like to welcome the fact that the protection of children's rights is again a priority issue at the next session of the un human rights council. this decision makes specific recommendations, for example, on the disarmament and rehabilitation of child soldiers in the drc. it is also gratifying to see that we are making progress, albeit small steps, in the fight against torture. the issue will also be high on the agenda of the human rights council. the report adopted by the ep this week on the global fight against torture is, i think, a very timely document which i hope will be taken into account by the human rights council. as the report emphasizes, it is vital that the various actors take concerted action to end torture globally.
mr president, please could mr romeva i rueda, and other authors of this report, answer my question. what exactly is the test for picking and choosing which cases to bring here? let me share another story with you. a saudi arabian diplomat, stationed in the united states, who has come out as a homosexual, is being threatened by saudi arabia with torture and inhuman treatment. he is asking for asylum in the united states, and the united states is refusing to give it to him. saudi arabia is a strong, rich country and a good friend of the united states. the united states is a big, strong country and, even after the snowden revelation and our report, a very good friend of the european union – one big, happy family. nevertheless, do we see a chance that this particular case will be put before the european parliament, perhaps now or another time?
mr president, i was deeply moved when, in a different context, some colleagues mentioned that the bedouin community was being subjected to severe human rights violations. that brought back very strong memories for me of the time i was invited to the negev by bedouin and palestinian human rights organisations. i witnessed the very severe human rights violations committed by the israeli state and the israeli army against the bedouins. their barns, their belongings and their traditional lifestyle had been completely destroyed. this prompted me to ask: why it is that, during these traditional thursday afternoon sessions, we never bring up the severe human rights violations committed by israel, which happens to be an associated country of the european union?
- the honorable officer! my fellow members of the house of representatives! a united europe starts with the dismantling of physical barriers. the key to a competitive europe is the full digitalisation of the economy and society. a europe of solidarity will ensure that everyone has access to the internet. the directive before us aims to make the internet accessible, cheaper and faster for the masses and to encourage investment by telecommunications companies. it is in this area, with its fragmented market in global competition, that europe is at a competitive disadvantage, where falling behind can be fatal. the limited or non-existent availability of networks impedes competition and keeps prices high. it is safe to say that the single market is still incomplete in many areas. we can save 110 billion euros a year, and in the meantime, broadband can be one of the most important tools for social inclusion. nowadays, if you're cut off from the internet, you're cut off from society. we need to reach out to rural areas with lower population densities, so that digital assets can reach them and people in rural areas do not feel like second-class eu citizens who lack access to jobs, information, services, education or healthcare. broadband is not a miracle weapon, it is a basic need of the 21st century. what is the final debate today? the purpose of the bill is to reduce the cost of building high-speed internet networks. a lot of compromises, which i have to thank my co-tax partners for. after much deliberation and debate, we have the draft. the construction of physical infrastructure is the most important cost factor, the most important element of which is combining public databases and supporting joint investments of the different network sectors. this cost-effective digital infrastructure build-out can help us recover from the crisis. we need to make sure that the energy sector, the sewerage system, the water system, the district heating, the gas pipelines, the public transportation lines can be used to build pipelines cheaper and faster. we need to ensure that new residential buildings, public buildings in the future are able to receive and distribute broadband. buildings should be broadband certified to make it easier for individuals and families to find a property. my fellow members of parliament! we can't set ourselves any smaller goal than achieving 100% internet coverage. and we can set ourselves no less of a goal than to make the europe 2020 objectives - that every european should have at least 30 mbps and half the population a 100 mbps connection - a minimum programme. and it's important to me, and to my fellow speakers, that the moment we achieve that goal, we double down on our goals, because the speed of data is very important to be able to keep up with the demands of traffic. we can't hold it! we consider it a very great achievement that, in consultation with the council, we have managed to shorten the implementation period considerably. thank you to the partners and staff for supporting my work. i thank the council and the greek presidency for their successful cooperation. thank you for the flexibility and support of the commission, the commissioner and her staff. we can say that we have done our job in the interests of all europeans.
mr. president, i'm sure you are. my fellow members of the house of representatives! invest, invest, invest, invest, invest, invest, invest, invest, invest, invest, invest, invest, invest, invest, invest, invest, invest, invest, invest, invest, invest, invest, invest, what is that? only through investment in broadband, high-speed internet, can we eliminate a two-speed, even a three-speed europe. because the situation is currently unacceptable, that if you travel within 50 km of any major european city - london, budapest, rome or madrid - the rural population can only connect on very low-speed or non-existent internet lines. we need to achieve a society, democratic institutions and jobs - and you have not questioned this - so that every european, whether living in the countryside or in the city, can access high-speed broadband internet services, both basic and specialised. so, to force the network companies to invest, to cooperate, that's our job, and that's what we have to do together tomorrow!
, in writing. - my fellow members of parliament! the telecommunications sector is of strategic importance in the european union. it provides the necessary basis for development and innovation. the development of the telecommunications sector could be the way out of the crisis. it is clear today that europe has lost its digital competitive advantage over asia and the united states. so our main task now is to restore europe's competitiveness. the regulation mentioned by pilar del castillo covers several key areas. the single notification option for roaming, net neutrality and an umbrella organisation of national telecoms regulators in european countries will also help bring us one step closer to the single telecoms market. first, i would like to stress the abolition of the differential between domestic and roaming charges, which is a precondition for a functioning internal market. roaming charges would be abolished as from december 2015, which would be a significant step forward, especially in terms of increasing data traffic. secondly, the legislative package ensures net neutrality across europe for the first time. it also contains additional guarantees that oblige service providers to treat all internet traffic equally and without restriction, regardless of the sender and recipient, and regardless of the content. thirdly, i would like to draw attention to the importance of the uniform notification procedure. this possibility facilitates the provision of services in other eu member states by guaranteeing that national authorities treat all providers equally.
is the europe of the 28 freer, safer and more democratic than it was four years ago when we adopted the stockholm programme? yeah, well, it's not like the picture's contradictory. the number of people studying or working in another member state has increased, but some governments are trying to restrict free employment. we have concluded visa-free, visa-facilitation agreements with several countries, but bulgaria and romania's accession to schengen has been delayed ever since. the charter of fundamental rights is part of the treaty, but we cannot enforce it: we see that the independence of the democratic institutions can be destroyed, that the rule of law can be circumvented, that populism and nationalism are on the rise across europe. i am pleased that our common response at the end of the cycle was the eu rule of law mechanism, but it will also have to be applied consistently. i sincerely hope that the next european parliament will be equally committed to freedom, security and the rule of law.
we're debating the security of europe, it's 5:55 p.m., and the vote is in 15 minutes. there are 95 complicated issues to be decided on the ballot paper for this report. for the big parties, the economic lobbies have obviously already dictated the answers, so there's no need to even preserve the appearance of democracy. so much for my fellow hungarians from the european parliament. but let me tell you: in the matter of security, hungarians - mainly in the countryside, but also in the cities - are mainly concerned about the fact that the mobs of criminals plunder citizens without restriction, steal cattle, crops, agricultural equipment in the countryside. people fear for their lives and physical well-being as crime increases.
, in writing. in this cycle, the eu has made a number of progress in strengthening security, combating terrorism and international organised crime, combating money laundering and corruption, and combating cybercrime. as a precursor to the eu cybersecurity strategy and the network and information security directive, i regard the establishment of the european computer crime centre (ec3) within europol as a major achievement. the operation that led to the arrest of 29 suspects is a success story for the center, which has been operating for over a year. the suspects misused the payment details of 30,000 credit card holders to gain 9 million euros. this also shows that it is relatively easy to get into the business networks of cybercriminals, and with the rapid development of technology, criminals are always one step ahead of law enforcement. children are also exposed to the dark side of the internet, and ec3 is currently supporting 9 major operations in cooperation with police authorities across the eu to tackle the sexual exploitation of children online. the extension of the mandate of enisa (european network and information security agency) for seven years and the extension of its tasks can also be considered as one of the key achievements of the last four years. the eu is thus committing itself even more to tackling cybercrime and to coordinating the work of law enforcement and data protection authorities.
i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place on thursday 3 april 2014 at 11.30. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
the following joint action was adopted in the course of the year: a joint action on the discharge for the implementation of the 2012 budget (51 reports): 2012 discharge: tvivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivivi
- mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. as rapporteur for the final accounts of the european external action service, the european court of auditors and the european court of justice for 2012, i would first like to thank the european court of auditors, the secretariat of the committee on budgetary control, its experts and, of course, my fellow members for their assistance during the final accounts procedure, for the excellent cooperation. ladies and gentlemen, the european court of justice receives a record number of new applications every year. the main problem remains the significant backlog of cases and the continuing increase in the number of pending cases. the council may decide to extend the mandate of a judge to a further period of three years. my report urges the council to approve the pending drafts which propose the appointment of additional forensic judges and could contribute to a faster case-handling and a reduction in the number of pending cases. of the nearly 2000 staff at the european court of justice in 2012, almost half are involved in translation and interpreting. this is higher than for any other institution and leads to extremely expensive administrative costs. it would certainly be necessary for the european court of justice to develop some strategy to rationalize and reduce translation and interpretation costs in the future. there is also a significant difference between the costs of a page of translation calculated by the institutions. the european court of justice can translate a page for an average of €98, while the european court of auditors costs an average of €246. the final accounts report shall invite the institutions concerned to apply a uniform calculation method for the calculation of translation costs. the report calls on the european court of auditors to take better account of the professional priorities of the european parliament and the committee on budgetary control when preparing its annual work programme. my discharge report also indicates that there is a need to further strengthen the geographical balance within the court, in particular in the higher echelons, of countries that have been under-represented in the past ten years. i am convinced that the operational and personnel costs of the european external action service are disproportionately high. the european external action service has 514 staff at grade ad12 or above. that's more than half of all ad positions in the service. staff working in the delegations of the service represented an additional cost to the union budget of approximately eur 8 000 per head on average per month in 2012 in addition to their normal salary. among those in employment, the member states which have joined in the last 10 years remain underrepresented at managerial and above levels, at only 14%. of the 131 heads of delegation posts in the european external action service, only 20 are staff from countries that have joined in the last 10 years. in addition to the shortcomings and problems raised, my report aims to grant the exemption to all three institutions, as the financial problems were mainly related to the efficiency of management. as the european court of auditors stated in its report, the financial audit did not reveal any significant deficiencies or irregularities.
thank you very much but, as you know, whoever is in the chair is not able to take part in the debate.
- mr president, i have to speak to the president. my fellow members of parliament! 51 the debate on the final report may have been maybe short in relation to the importance of the subject, but i can say from five years of experience as a member of the european parliament that it was a surprisingly long debate, with its stages of public interest, of interest to the community of european taxpaying citizens. at the end of this exchange of views, i would like to thank the european court of auditors and my colleagues for their cooperation in preparing the three reports on which we will be able to decide tomorrow. the role of the president of parliament has been raised several times today. i would just like to say that a few weeks before the european elections, the term 'european elections' is not a bad word for me. it is not right, it is not right, that we should be shouting at each other about the fact that questions relating to the election campaign are being raised in the european parliament. after all, elections are not a bad thing, they are a celebration of all european citizens. mr schulz is the president of parliament, the president of all of us, the candidate of one of the european party families for the presidency of the european commission. in this capacity, he speaks of freedom and democracy, but there is a difference between his words and the actions of the president of parliament. as speaker of parliament, he's not following the rules. if someone calls this by its name, "populist, liberal or green politician", i don't think he is aiming at political goals, but rather he is calling attention to the fact that mr schulz is aiming at political goals. so i think that everything was fine at this stage of the debate.
, in writing. - mr president, i have to go. the amendment of the ets directive to international aviation emissions is also of particular importance for market predictability and foreseeability. i find the text of the final compromise generally favourable and congratulate the rapporteur, peter liese, who has worked hard to achieve this result. the legislation, which was drawn up on the basis of consultations with the council, can be considered balanced, since it has solved the question of temporal scope, the question of the distribution of quota revenue and the question of territorial scope. the ets's aviation rules seek to reduce emissions in the fight against climate change, an objective that has been blocked from the outset by international protests, causing a lot of uncertainty in the markets. this long debate can be brought to a close by the compromise now reached, which provides a reassuring framework for the sector's emissions in europe until a comprehensive global agreement is reached. i therefore ask my colleagues to support the report in the vote tomorrow.
mr president my fellow members of parliament! i welcome the inclusion of the financial services report on the agenda. i am confident that the proposed conditions will improve the conditions under which the internal market operates. the adoption of a cap on interchange fees for transactions at union level is a very important step towards improving the functioning of the internal market and towards achieving a consumer-centred flow of goods, persons, services and capital within the union. it is, however, essential to provide the appropriate means to prevent the possibility of circumvention of the existing prohibition. this regulation should apply to all card-based payment transactions. including retail payment instruments and services and transactions with commercial cards. for this reason, we cannot support any amendment which would narrow this framework. thank you very much, and congratulations to the speakers.
in writing. i welcome the reports on financial services, as i am confident that the proposed regulations will improve the conditions for the functioning and development of the internal market for payments. it is certain that the adoption of a cap on interchange fees at union level is an important step towards improving the functioning of the internal market and towards the consumer-centred implementation of the principle of free movement of goods, persons, services and capital within the union. it is, however, essential to provide the appropriate means to guarantee the effectiveness of the proposed regulation, which will prevent the circumvention of the proposed prohibition. i am convinced that, in accordance with the principle of technological neutrality as set out in the digital agenda for europe, as applied by the commission, this regulation should apply to all card-based payment transactions, regardless of the environment in which the transaction takes place, including retail payment instruments and services, which may be offline, online or mobile, and transactions carried out with commercial cards. for that reason, i could not and cannot support amendments that would grant additional exemptions to certain types of cards. overall, the proposals put forward by the ep's rapporteurs are very balanced and well thought out, and i personally support them, and i encourage my colleagues to vote in favour of the reports on financial services tomorrow.
mr. president, i have to ask you... my fellow members of parliament! i want to talk about a very important thing, namely the success of hungarian economic policy. for a long time, only hungary, the hungarian government, was convinced that the path we were on was the right one. many others thought that this path would further deepen the crisis in which the government of national cooperation took over in 2010. but thank god, by 2014, all european credit rating agencies, the european commission itself and the international monetary fund also recognize that hungary although it used specific economic policy instruments managed to achieve that by the end of last year, growth rose above 2%, and this year, gdp growth will be above 2.6%. the hungarian economy has been on a sustainable growth path, we can keep the public deficit below 3% for a long time, so we have pursued a successful economic policy. i think we've set an example for europe.
my fellow citizens! on 1 may, it will be ten years since the biggest enlargement in the history of the european union took place, with the addition of ten new member states. in my final speech to the house, i would like to take stock. for us, the central european and baltic states, there was no alternative to european union membership, there is no alternative and there will be no alternative. it was a tough fight, and for the better part of a decade, the union was in the midst of the biggest crisis in its history. we, the new member states, had to fight for equality. the success is demonstrated by the fact that six of the ten new member states are now members of the euro area. we have a lot of work ahead of us, the union can already deal with economic deficits, but it cannot yet deal with democratic deficits. but the process has begun and the european democratic control mechanism will certainly be established, as 40 million minorities want.
in writing. - special report no 25/2012 of the european court of auditors was voted on by the committee on budgetary control of the european parliament on 18 february 2014. the report was adopted by the committee without a vote against. as vice-chair of the committee on budgetary control, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report on the effectiveness of the implementation of the european social fund as a financial instrument. it is essential that the necessary lessons are drawn from the deficiencies and weaknesses identified in the audit and that they are corrected in the period 2014-2020. these necessary steps and measures shall be summarised in the report of the committee on budgetary control. i supported the adoption of the report in the plenary vote.
in writing. - the un's cooperation with the eu is key to peace-keeping and conflict prevention, especially in crisis zones such as syria, south sudan, the central african republic and the middle east conflict. the chemical weapons attack in syria in august shows that we must not give up on the goal of a world free of weapons of mass destruction, which must reflect the common will of all parties, based on reciprocity. with regard to unhindered access to humanitarian aid, i would like to draw attention to the threat posed by terrorist groups operating under the auspices of legitimate umbrella organisations, which is considered one of the greatest challenges in the fight against terrorist financing. unfortunately, nonprofit organizations (ngos) often operate under the guise of charity, funneling large sums of money to terrorist groups. in order to facilitate counter-terrorism work, greater attention should be paid under the un umbrella to making the activities of ngos more transparent (e.g. channels of money transfers should be controlled). citing the eu counter-terrorism coordinator, mr gilles de kerchove, there is an increasing risk of travel to syria by hard-to-identify 'lone wolves' and foreign fighters (including more than 2000 european jihadists). there are fears that returning fighters could become radicalised, which could increase the risk of terrorist acts in europe. the eu could play an important role in prevention by introducing a european legal framework to deter and deter those who travel to syria via routes that are circumvented, even if they have valid documents.
in writing. - i welcome the priorities set out in the proposal, the right to guarantee and protect freedom of expression and media throughout the union, as it supports the values enshrined in the eu treaties, namely human rights and fundamental freedoms, including freedom of expression. i consider it of paramount importance to draw attention to the fact that independent media support and reinforce citizens' respect for free expression, cultural diversity, diversity of views and non-violent conflict resolution, tolerance and respect as fundamental values. i support the recommendations to the council, the commission and the european external action service, stressing the importance of recognising the importance of free european media, in particular financially sustainable and independent public service broadcasting, in promoting the democratic values of the union and informing the public, in particular by helping to understand the issues that unite or divide europe and by bringing european citizens closer together through a better understanding of foreign policy developments. i agree with the rapporteur's suggestion that the european media broadcasting internationally should adequately reflect the varied opinions and circumstances within the union, including the perspectives and reality of the new member states.
in writing. - the eu has not yet had a comprehensive legal framework to enforce its rights under the world trade organisation (wto) and other trade agreements. this shortfall was exploited by several third countries. in many cases, the wto dispute settlement body's decision and international agreements were not implemented. it is in the interest of the european economy that the eu has a tool that strengthens the enforcement of the union's trade rights, consolidates the eu's credibility and ultimately convinces trading partners that they must respect the rules of the game laid down in trade agreements. the wto specifically recognises the right of the injured country to apply transitional retaliation of a protective nature against the infringing country if that country does not implement the decisions of the dispute settlement body. i therefore welcome the legislation on penalties for breaches of international trade rules. this was a timely creation. i also agree that services should be included in the union's trade policy measures, alongside goods and public procurement.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because, like the rapporteur, i am convinced that the overall objectives of sustainable economic development, decent working conditions and poverty eradication in bangladesh are priorities and that this regulation should be guided by these values. i consider it of particular importance to draw attention to the fact that the uruguay round is the basis for the preferential market access for products from the least developed countries, including the preferential import agreements for rice of 1994, and that the specific council regulation on imports of rice from bangladesh was adopted in november 1990. at the same time, i would also like to emphasise that, according to the rapporteur's interpretation, council regulation (eec) no 3491/90 does not currently affect the import agreements between bangladesh and the union. the rapporteur therefore calls for the harmonisation of existing legislation in the field of the common commercial policy. i would point out that the commission proposal mentions an amount of export tax corresponding to the reduction of the import duty to be collected by the exporting country as a condition for exporting to the eu. on this point, i think the rapporteur's position is to be supported, that he is not opposed to bangladesh levying an export tax, but he believes that this decision should be taken by bangladeshi policymakers and not by the european institutions.
madam president, could you please kindly ask those colleagues who want to talk loudly to each other to go out to the cafeteria because we are still in session.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because, like the rapporteur, i believe that the review of the current regulatory framework for medical devices is a priority, especially given the fact that the review of the framework, now 20 years old, was particularly timely and that the current legal framework has been improved in many respects. i welcome the amendments to the commission proposal to classify medical devices into four categories depending on the level of risk they pose to patients. i believe that this also strengthens transparency and accountability. i consider it particularly important to draw attention to the point in the report where it points out that a number of weaknesses in the conformity assessment procedure have emerged over the years, including a lack of transparency, the rapid approval and placing on the market of medical devices despite insufficient testing in patients and consequently insufficient clinical data and consequently the risk to patients . i am convinced, on the basis of the above reasoning, that medical devices presenting the highest risks to patients should be subject to a procedure more stringent than the conformity assessment procedure. i urge the report to seek the establishment of an acmd committee.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because, like the rapporteur, i am convinced that the purpose of this regulation is to guarantee high quality and high safety of medical devices and, at the same time, a high level of protection of the health and safety of patients, users and other persons. i welcome the priorities set out in the report, which are above all the regulation of standards for safety, quality and efficiency. i would like to stress in particular the importance of health and safety in the report, which states, inter alia, that: 'devices and manufacturing processes should be designed in such a way as to eliminate or minimise the risk of infection to patients, professional or lay users and, where appropriate, other persons. the devices must not cause injury to patients, users or others. i also consider it of the utmost importance to draw attention to the importance of training of healthcare professionals, so that healthcare institutions should ensure that their staff receive training on the proper use of medical devices, equipment and procedures in order to safely apply new medical technologies and surgical techniques. i support the need to ensure adequate protection for all healthcare workers through vaccination, regular diagnostic testing, and the use of personal protective equipment in order to reduce healthcare-associated infections and other adverse effects.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because, like the rapporteur, i am convinced that the applications that are part of the programme play a role in our daily lives, are vital to key sectors of the economy and contribute to our security. space applications and derived services, together with space research, have become critical for union policies and for promoting technical progress, industrial innovation and competitiveness. in light of our increasing reliance on space-based services, it has become vital for our society to be able to protect space infrastructure. however, i also think it is important to highlight the message of the report that space infrastructures are increasingly threatened by the risk of collisions between spacecraft and, even more so, by the collision of spacecraft and space debris, which is a serious threat. i welcome the priority of the report to establish an independent european space observation and monitoring capability to prevent and monitor the increased risk of collisions between space infrastructures and other spacecraft or space debris. i consider the progress made in the two flagship european programmes, galileo and copernicus, to be of great importance, as it has raised awareness of the need to protect the eu's space infrastructure. galileo is the eu's first major space project and remains one of the key building blocks of the eu's space drive, while copernicus has significant space-based units.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because, like the rapporteur, i believe that the four areas of animal health, plant health, plant propagating material and official controls are of paramount importance in the examination of the question of the legal framework for food chain safety. in addition, a high level of safety of food and food production systems, improvement of animal health and welfare, detection and eradication of pests and ensuring the effectiveness of official controls are equally high priorities. i welcome the report's commitment to simplifying the current legal framework as a key element in promoting food security. i would like to stress, in agreement with the commission and the rapporteur, that in order to assess more effectively the impact of food chain safety policies, it is necessary to define precise and consistent indicators. i also welcome the proposal for a total budget of eur 1 [nbsp ]892 million and call for the allocation of expenditure to be defined, as this will determine the priorities between the different parts of the programme. i also welcome the proposed rationalization of the funding ratio of grants and the fixing of the base rate at 50% of eligible costs. however, this percentage may be increased to 75% and 100% respectively under certain conditions.
in writing. - the regulation on clinical trials of medicinal products for human use fills a long-standing gap in the european union, which we hope will help to speed up and streamline authorisation procedures, thereby helping to develop new, effective products. it is important that ethical issues are included as a new element in the proposal, leaving it to the member states to regulate in detail the participation of ethics committees. i also consider it particularly important for hungary that the protection of vulnerable groups - minors, those with limited capacity for action, pregnant women and other groups in special situations - has been broadened, as the rules are already stronger in hungary and we have been able to maintain them. on these grounds, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - the european court of auditors has prepared its annual report for the financial year 2012, which it presented to the european parliament's plenary and then to the committee on budgetary control. following the presentation of the report, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the implementation of the agencies' budgets in the context of the 2012 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. with regard to the management of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators in 2012, the final accounts report states that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no deficiencies were found during the investigation. the commission notes that the commission did not provide any information on the amount of the aid granted to the beneficiaries. i voted in favour of granting the discharge in the committee vote and in the plenary vote on 3 april.
in writing. - i welcomed and supported the report by a positive vote, as i share the same position on the current legislation on clinical trials. i believe that it needs to be urgently reviewed, given that over the past few years there has been a serious decline in the number of clinical trials being conducted in europe, which has not only serious economic consequences but also hinders the progress of medicine to the detriment of patients. i welcome the priorities set out by the rapporteur to ensure that a high standard of care and care for patients is maintained in the union, while encouraging scientific research and innovation. i also think it is very important to draw attention to the fact that given the current economic crisis, we should not waste money on medicines that are not effective and people should be able to make informed decisions about their health. europe must be competitive and attractive for pharmaceutical companies to conduct research here, while supporting scientific research and encouraging development of medicines for rare diseases. i am convinced that reducing bureaucracy and increasing transparency are also essential factors in achieving the objectives set out above.
i was recently in eastern hungary, and an old woman... i should also like to say that my colleagues are still speaking loudly, although they are now two metres away from us, but i think that those who regularly watch the parliamentary broadcasts know that there is a kind of sham activity, a sham democracy going on here. i told you, we're dealing with a front organization. but that's exactly what those hungarian people see. for example, this elderly woman who asked me for advice said: the fourth time my chickens were stolen, the 30 chickens that i bought from my pension to supplement my pension as a poor person. the fifth time i won't be able to buy them, and if i buy them the fifth time, the sixth time i won't be able to buy them. so i decided to take the chickens into the house with me for the night, sleep with them. do you think that's a good idea? or will the criminals see this and cut my throat too? other why am i telling you this story? because these are the kind of everyday stories that are about people's safety that the stockholm program should be dealing with if anyone here cares.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because i am convinced that it confirms the objectives of the stockholm programme, the importance of the latter, and that the priority of the european union must be above all the strengthening of the rule of law, freedom and security. i would like to stress first of all that the report puts human rights, democracy and the rule of law at the heart of both the eu's internal and external policies and therefore considers that respect for, protection of and promotion of these values must be steadily increased in order to make the union a genuine player in the world. i consider it of particular importance to draw attention to the measure set out in the report that the union and its member states should not sign agreements in the area of freedom, security and justice with third countries where there is a serious risk of human rights violations and where they do not support the rule of law. in order to be able to test on the basis of these criteria, a transparent and consistent set of requirements should be established and applied. i also welcome the point in the report which recalls the key role played by frontex and the european police college (cepol) in training law enforcement staff and border guards, and which stresses the imperative to respect the human rights of migrants.
in writing. - the european court of auditors has prepared its annual report for the financial year 2012, which it presented to the european parliament's plenary and then to the committee on budgetary control. following the presentation of the report, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union for the eighth, ninth and tenth european development funds in the context of the 2012 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the european development fund is the main financial instrument for supporting acp countries and octs. it is not part of the union budget, the member states finance the fund directly, and the european commission is responsible for the implementation of the budget. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the commission notes that the commission did not provide any information on the amount of the aid granted to the beneficiaries. i voted in favour of granting the discharge in the committee vote and in the plenary vote on 3 april.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because it confirms the need for urgent action to limit greenhouse gas emissions from aviation. the aviation sector is rapidly increasing its greenhouse gas emissions and, if no action is taken, the increase in these gases could hamper the achievement of the intergovernmental panel on climate change's 2050 reduction target of no more than 2 degrees celsius. i agree with the rapporteur that amendments are needed to ensure more ambitious targets and equal treatment with other industries, as currently the aviation sector only needs to reduce its maximum emissions by 5% and the other sectors by 21%. i am also convinced, in line with the report, that it is unacceptable that third countries such as china or india are unwilling to comply with the provisions of eu law on flights within the european union. on the basis of the above, i believe that when it comes to climate issues, it is crucial that all parties involved are team players, working together to achieve a common goal. in addition to achieving a global solution, the union must prioritise the interests, competitiveness and operational opportunities of our aviation sector in this highly competitive field.
i voted no on the report on ukraine. i refuse to support a system that treats the indigenous national communities living there, including 150,000 hungarians, in a shameful way. of whom, incidentally, 50,000 are hungarian eu citizens. i recently received the following letter from hungarian ngos and historical churches: we, representatives of ngos and historical church communities established by the indigenous hungarian population living in ukraine, are following the events in the country with concern. in recent times, armed radical elements have emerged in transcarpathia, who are creating fear in us and our children, further reducing our sense of security. other it is worrying that incitement against hungarians continues and that more and more articles falsifying historical facts appear in the ukrainian media. my dear fellow mps who support this shameful system, i ask you to be ashamed of yourselves as those members of the hungarian government who do not stand up for their own countrymen, their brothers, the transcarpathian hungarians.
in writing. - the european court of auditors has prepared its annual report for the financial year 2012, which it presented to the european parliament's plenary. the european commission's final report was drawn up by markus pieper of the people's party and contains a number of so-called reservations. some of these are also reflected in the annual reports of the commission directors-general and the german rapporteur has also made reservations of his own. the report also includes a commitment by the members of the newly established commission concerned, at their parliamentary hearing, to address the concerns relating to their areas of expertise. the report strongly criticises the eight member states responsible for 90% of the errors and irregularities affecting the eu budget. finally, the european parliament's plenary also supported the presentation of the commission's final accounts.
in writing. - the european court of auditors has prepared its annual report for the financial year 2012, which it presented to the european parliament's plenary and then to the committee on budgetary control. following the presentation of the report, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union in the context of the 2012 closure procedure, concerning the implementation of the budget of the european commission. the european commission's final report was drawn up by markus pieper of the people's party and contains a number of so-called reservations. some of these are also reflected in the annual reports of the commission directors-general and the german rapporteur has also made reservations of his own. the report also includes a commitment by the members of the newly established commission concerned, at their parliamentary hearing, to address the concerns relating to their areas of expertise. the report strongly criticises the eight member states responsible for 90% of the errors and irregularities affecting the eu budget. the european commission's final accounts were supported by the committee and the european parliament's plenary.
in writing. - the european court of auditors has prepared its annual report for the financial year 2012, which it presented to the european parliament's plenary. following the presentation of the report, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control shall, in the context of the 2012 closure procedure, draw up a report on the main findings of the court of auditors' special reports for that year, which shall be summarised in a report adopted in the context of the discharge procedure. the european commission's closing statement was presented by markus pieper of the people's party. in the plenary vote on 3 april, i supported the adoption of the report.
in writing. - the european court of auditors has prepared its annual report for the financial year 2012, which it presented to the european parliament's plenary and then to the committee on budgetary control. following the presentation of the report, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control shall, in the context of the 2012 closure procedure, draw up a report on the main findings of the court of auditors' special reports for that year, which shall be summarised in a report adopted in the context of the discharge procedure. the european commission's closing statement was presented by markus pieper of the people's party. the committee decided to adopt the report at its meeting on 17 march. i supported the adoption of the report in the committee vote and in the plenary vote on 3 april.
in writing. - the european court of auditors has prepared its annual report for the financial year 2012, which it presented to the european parliament's plenary. following the presentation of the report, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union for the eighth, ninth and tenth european development funds in the context of the 2012 closure procedure. the european development fund is the main financial instrument for supporting acp countries and octs. it is not part of the union budget, the member states finance the fund directly, and the european commission is responsible for the implementation of the budget. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. in the plenary vote on 3 april, i voted in favour of granting the discharge.
in writing. - the european court of auditors has prepared its annual report for the financial year 2012, which it presented to the european parliament's plenary and then to the committee on budgetary control. following the presentation of the report, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union for the eighth, ninth and tenth european development funds in the context of the 2012 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the european development fund is the main financial instrument for supporting acp countries and octs. it is not part of the union budget, the member states finance the fund directly, and the european commission is responsible for the implementation of the budget. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the commission notes that the commission did not provide any information on the amount of the aid granted to the beneficiaries. in the plenary vote on 3 april, i voted in favour of granting the discharge.
in writing. - the european court of auditors presented its annual report for the financial year 2012 to the european parliament's plenary. the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out the financial control of the general budget of the european union in respect of the european council and the council. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. in its 2012 annual report, the court of auditors concluded that, on the basis of the court's audit work, the payments made by the institutions and bodies in respect of administrative and other expenditure for the financial year ended 31 december 2012 were, overall, free from material error. the final accounts report also states that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. however, during the discharge procedure, the council did not provide parliament and the committee with a number of documents necessary for the closure of the accounts procedure, without which the financial year 2012 could not have been closed, and no agreement was reached between the two institutions on a number of disputes concerning interinstitutional cooperation. in the plenary vote, i voted in favour of postponing the granting of immunity.
in writing. - presented the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2012 to the european parliament's plenary and then to the competent committee of the european parliament. in the context of the 2012 closure procedure, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union in respect of the european council and the council. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. in its 2012 annual report, the court of auditors concluded that, on the basis of the court's audit work, the payments made by the institutions and bodies in respect of administrative and other expenditure for the financial year ended 31 december 2012 were, overall, free from material error. the final accounts report also states that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. however, during the discharge procedure, the council did not provide parliament and the committee with any of the documents necessary to close the accounts procedure, without which the financial year 2012 could not have been closed, and no agreement was reached between the two institutions on a number of disputes concerning interinstitutional cooperation. at its meeting on march 18, the panel voted 26 in favor and 1 against to postpone the granting of the exemption. i voted in committee and in plenary to postpone the granting of the discharge.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of delaying the transmission of parliament's decision on the closure of the accounts of the european council and the council for the financial year 2012 to the secretary-general of the council.
in writing. - the final report of the european external action service states that 2012 was the second year of the eeas's independent operation. it is welcome that the eeas reached the one-third ratio of diplomats from member states working under the eeas mandate as set out in the regulation in the summer of 2013. among the staff of the eeas, the member states which have joined in the last 10 years are still underrepresented at managerial and above levels, representing only 14% of the total, while 21% of the union's population lives in these member states. low proportion of member states having joined in the last 10 years for 131 heads of delegation posts, of which only 20 are filled. i also think it is important to support requiring newly recruited eeas staff to provide a declaration that they have not previously worked for intelligence services. the new staff regulations, which entered into force in 2014, have already saved the eeas eur 4 million, mainly by reducing various benefits for staff working in union delegations. the report welcomes these savings, but i am convinced that there is scope for further cost reductions. in the plenary vote, i voted in favour of the report and the discharge.
in writing. - as rapporteur for the final report of the european external action service, i proposed in my report that the exemption be granted, which was supported by the committee. the year 2012 was the second year of the service's independent operation. it is welcome that the eeas reached the one-third ratio for diplomats from member states working under the eeas mandate as set out in the regulation in the summer of 2013. among the staff of the eeas, the member states which have joined in the last 10 years are still underrepresented at managerial and above levels, representing only 14% of the total, while 21% of the union's population lives in these member states. low proportion of member states having joined in the last 10 years for 131 heads of delegation posts, of which only 20 are filled. i also considered it important to emphasise in the report that newly recruited eeas staff should be required to provide a declaration that they had not previously worked for intelligence services. the new staff regulations, which came into force in 2014, have already saved the eeas eur 4 million, mainly by reducing various benefits for staff working in eu delegations. the report welcomes these savings, but i am convinced that there is scope for further cost reductions. in the plenary vote, i voted in favour of the report and the discharge.
in writing. - the court of auditors considers that the european external action service has continued to implement its budget without material error in its second financial year of existence and that most of the problems identified in the court's 2011 annual report regarding the establishment of the service have not re-emerged. i therefore vote in favour of parliament's discharge to the high representative of the european union for foreign affairs and security policy in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european external action service for the financial year 2012.
in writing. - i welcome the priorities set out in the report, which relate to the simplification of beef labelling rules and the clarity and applicability of legislation on the identification and traceability of bovine herds. these guidelines are essential, in particular, to achieve an optimal level of food safety. i am convinced, in line with the report, that food safety is one of the issues of greatest concern to european citizens and that optimal protection for citizens must be ensured through provisions that are frequently updated and kept up to date. in particular, i would like to emphasise that the rapporteur welcomes the commission's proposals to introduce the electronic identification of bovine animals (eid) on a voluntary basis, on the grounds that this technology offers a number of advantages to users, in particular in terms of traceability and stock management. i agree with that argument and support it to the fullest. i also consider it very important to draw attention to the fact that i support the commission's intention to simplify the labelling of beef by abolishing the provisions on voluntary labelling, which, in addition to being a serious administrative burden, do not represent a proportionate added value from the point of view of food safety.
in writing. - the main problem for the court of justice remains the substantial backlog of cases and the continuing increase in the number of pending cases. the council shall, in accordance with the procedure referred to in article 25 of the statute of the court of justice of the european union, appoint the judges of the court of justice of the european union and the judges of the court of first instance of the court of justice of the european union. almost half (47.3%) of the almost 2,000 persons employed at the court of justice in 2012 work as translators and interpreters. this is higher than for any other institution and leads to extremely expensive administrative costs. the report calls on the court of justice to develop a strategy to rationalise and reduce translation and interpretation costs in the future. the discharge reports also indicate that there is a need to further strengthen the geographical balance within the institutions concerned, in particular the countries that have joined in the last 10 years are under-represented in the higher echelons, and the report urges the proportional representation of member states at all levels of administration. i voted in favour of granting the discharge in the plenary session of the european court of justice on the final day of the proceedings.
in writing. - the main problem for the court of justice remains the substantial backlog of cases and the continuing increase in the number of pending cases. the council shall, in accordance with the procedure referred to in article 25 of the statute of the court of justice of the european union, appoint the judges of the court of justice of the european union and the judges of the court of first instance of the court of justice of the european union. almost half (47.3%) of the almost 2,000 persons employed at the court of justice in 2012 work as translators and interpreters. this is higher than for any other institution and leads to extremely expensive administrative costs. the report calls on the court of justice to develop a strategy to rationalise and reduce translation and interpretation costs in the future. the discharge reports also indicate that there is a need to further strengthen the geographical balance within the institutions concerned, in particular the countries that have joined in the last 10 years are under-represented in the higher echelons, and the report urges the proportional representation of member states at all levels of administration. as rapporteur for the final report of the european court of justice, i supported the granting of the discharge in both the committee and the plenary vote.
in writing. - in its annual report for the financial year 2012, the court of auditors found that the court of justice of the european union had not identified any significant weaknesses in the areas audited related to human resources and procurement. however, we urge the court to find a solution to deal adequately with the systemic increase in the number of new cases and the workload, as internal reforms and the revision of the rules of procedure will not be sufficient in themselves to significantly reduce the number of pending cases at the court in the coming years. we consider it possible to reduce the number of weeks without hearings and consultations.
in writing. - the financial audit of the european court of auditors was carried out by an external auditor, which shows that the financial report for 2012 gives a true picture of the financial management of the court of auditors and that the accounts were found to be in order by the external auditor. it is welcome that the court has been able to significantly reduce the time needed to prepare special reports, from over two years in 2008 to just 20 months in 2012. the institution aims to reduce the average time taken to prepare each special report by one and a half years. the report calls on the court to take better account of the political priorities of the european parliament and the committee on budgetary control when preparing its annual work programme. the draft discharge report also includes the need to further strengthen the geographical balance within the institution, in particular the under-representation of countries that have joined in the last 10 years in senior posts. i voted in favour of granting the discharge in the plenary on the final statement of the european court of auditors.
in writing. - the financial audit of the european court of auditors was carried out by an external auditor, which shows that the financial report for 2012 gives a true and fair view of the financial management of the court of auditors and that the accounts have been found to be in order by the external auditor. it is welcome that the court has been able to significantly reduce the time needed to prepare special reports, from over two years in 2008 to just 20 months in 2012. the institution aims to reduce the average time taken to prepare each special report by one and a half years. the draft report calls on the court to take greater account of the political priorities of the european parliament and the committee on budgetary control when preparing its annual work programme. the draft discharge report also includes the need to further strengthen the geographical balance within the institution, in particular the under-representation of countries that have joined in the last 10 years in senior posts. as rapporteur for the final report of the european court of auditors, i supported the granting of the discharge in both the committee and the plenary votes.
in writing. - the european court of auditors has prepared its annual report for the financial year 2012, which it presented to the european parliament's plenary. as regards the management of the european economic and social committee for 2012, the final accounts report concludes that the financial controls were carried out in an orderly manner and that no deficiencies were found during the audit. so in the plenary vote on 3 april, i voted in favour of granting the discharge.
in writing. - the european court of auditors has prepared its annual report for the financial year 2012, which it presented to the european parliament's plenary and then to the committee on budgetary control. following the presentation of the report, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union in the context of the 2012 closure procedure, concerning the implementation of the budget of the european economic and social committee. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. as regards the management of the european economic and social committee for 2012, the final accounts report concludes that the financial controls were carried out in an orderly manner and that no deficiencies were found during the audit. the commission notes that the commission did not provide any information on the amount of the aid granted to the beneficiaries. i voted in favour of granting the discharge in the committee vote and in the plenary vote on 3 april.
in writing. - in the context of the closure of the accounts for the financial year 2012, on the basis of the court of auditors' annual report and the recommendation to the committee on budgetary control, i am voting in favour of parliament's granting the secretary-general of the european economic and social committee discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european economic and social committee for the financial year 2012.
in writing. - the european court of auditors has prepared its annual report for the financial year 2012, which it presented to the european parliament's plenary. the final report on the 2012 management of the committee of the regions states that the financial audit was carried out in an orderly manner and that no deficiencies were found during the audit. so in the plenary vote on 3 april, i voted in favour of granting the discharge.
in writing. - the european court of auditors has prepared its annual report for the financial year 2012, which it presented to the european parliament's plenary and then to the committee on budgetary control. following the presentation of the report, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union in respect of the implementation of the budget of the committee of the regions in the context of the 2012 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the final report on the 2012 management of the committee of the regions states that the financial audit was carried out in an orderly manner and that no deficiencies were found during the audit. the commission notes that the commission did not provide any information on the amount of the aid granted to the beneficiaries. i voted in favour of granting the discharge in the committee vote and in the plenary vote on 3 april.
in writing. - in the context of the 2012 closure procedure, on the basis of the court of auditors' annual report and the recommendation to the committee on budgetary control, i am voting in favour of parliament's granting the secretary-general of the committee of the regions discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the committee of the regions for the financial year 2012.
in writing. - the european court of auditors has prepared its annual report for the financial year 2012, which it presented to the european parliament's plenary. as regards the management of the european ombudsman's office, the final audit report concludes that the financial audit was carried out in an orderly manner and that no deficiencies were found during the audit. so in the plenary vote on 3 april, i voted in favour of granting the discharge.
in writing. - the european court of auditors has prepared its annual report for the financial year 2012, which it presented to the european parliament's plenary and then to the committee on budgetary control. following the presentation of the report, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the implementation of the budget of the european ombudsman's office in the context of the closure of accounts procedure for 2012. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. as regards the management of the european ombudsman's office, the final audit report concludes that the financial audit was carried out in an orderly manner and that no deficiencies were found during the audit. the commission notes that the commission did not provide any information on the amount of the aid granted to the beneficiaries. i voted in favour of granting the discharge in the committee vote and in the plenary vote on 3 april.
in writing. - the european court of auditors has prepared its annual report for the financial year 2012, which it presented to the european parliament's plenary and then to the committee on budgetary control. following the presentation of the report, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the implementation of the budget of the european ombudsman in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for the year 2012. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. as regards the management of the european ombudsman's office, the final audit report concludes that the financial audit was carried out in an orderly manner and that no deficiencies were found during the audit. the commission notes that the commission did not provide any information on the amount of the aid granted to the beneficiaries. i voted in favour of granting the discharge in the committee vote and in the plenary vote on 3 april.
in writing. - in the context of the 2012 closure procedure, on the basis of the court of auditors' annual report and the recommendation to the committee on budgetary control, i am voting in favour of parliament granting the european ombudsman a discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2012.
in writing. - the european court of auditors has prepared its annual report for the financial year 2012, which it presented to the european parliament's plenary and then to the committee on budgetary control. following the presentation of the report, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union in the context of the 2012 closure procedure, concerning the implementation of the budget of the european economic and social committee. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. with regard to the management of the edps's office for 2012, the final report concludes that the financial audit was carried out in an orderly manner and that no deficiencies were found during the audit. the commission notes that the commission did not provide any information on the amount of the aid granted to the beneficiaries. in the plenary vote on 3 april, i voted in favour of granting the discharge.
in writing. - the european court of auditors has prepared its annual report for the financial year 2012, which it presented to the european parliament's plenary and then to the committee on budgetary control. following the presentation of the report, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for the financial year 2012 concerning the implementation of the budget of the european data protection supervisor. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. with regard to the management of the edps's office for 2012, the final report concludes that the financial audit was carried out in an orderly manner and that no deficiencies were found during the audit. the commission notes that the commission did not provide any information on the amount of the aid granted to the beneficiaries. i voted in favour of granting the discharge in the committee vote and in the plenary vote on 3 april.
in writing. - the european court of auditors has prepared its annual report for the financial year 2012, which it presented to the european parliament's plenary and then to the committee on budgetary control. following the presentation of the report, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for the financial year 2012 concerning the implementation of the budget of the european data protection supervisor. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. with regard to the management of the edps's office for 2012, the final report concludes that the financial audit was carried out in an orderly manner and that no deficiencies were found during the audit. the commission notes that the commission did not provide any information on the amount of the aid granted to the beneficiaries. i voted in favour of granting the discharge in the committee vote and in the plenary vote on 3 april.
in writing. - the court found that the payments made by the european data protection supervisor for administrative and other expenditure were, overall, free from material error and that the supervisory and control systems examined for administrative and other expenditure functioned effectively. in the context of the closure of the accounts for the financial year 2012, on the basis of the annual report of the court of auditors and the recommendation to the committee on budgetary control, i am voting in favour of parliament granting a discharge to the european data protection supervisor in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2012.
in writing. - the european court of auditors has prepared its annual report for the financial year 2012, which it presented to the european parliament's plenary and then to the committee on budgetary control. following the presentation of the report, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the implementation of the agencies' budgets in the context of the 2012 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. as regards the management of the european union agencies for 2012, the horizontal final accounts report concludes that the financial controls were carried out in an orderly manner and that no deficiencies were found during the audit. the problems highlighted in the report and to be addressed by the agencies include the need to increase transparency in public procurement procedures, to make the conflict of interest procedure more effective and to further strengthen internal control systems. in the plenary vote on 3 april, i supported the adoption of the report.
in writing. - the european court of auditors has prepared its annual report for the financial year 2012, which it presented to the european parliament's plenary and then to the committee on budgetary control. following the presentation of the report, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the implementation of the agencies' budgets in the context of the 2012 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. as regards the management of the european union agencies for 2012, the horizontal final accounts report concludes that the financial controls were carried out in an orderly manner and that no deficiencies were found during the audit. the problems highlighted in the report and to be addressed by the agencies include the need to increase transparency in public procurement procedures, to make the conflict of interest procedure more effective and to further strengthen internal control systems. the committee decided at its meeting on 17 march to adopt the report and to close the agencies' accounts for 2012. i supported the adoption of the report in the committee vote and in the plenary vote on 3 april.
in writing. - the european court of auditors has prepared its annual report for the financial year 2012, which it presented to the european parliament's plenary and then to the committee on budgetary control. following the presentation of the report, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the implementation of the agencies' budgets in the context of the 2012 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. with regard to the management of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators in 2012, the final accounts report states that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no deficiencies were found during the investigation. so in the plenary vote on 3 april, i voted in favour of granting the discharge.
in writing. - the european court of auditors has prepared its annual report for the financial year 2012, which it presented to the european parliament's plenary and then to the committee on budgetary control. following the presentation of the report, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the implementation of the agencies' budgets in the context of the 2012 closure procedure. the panel recommended that the discharge of the body of european regulators for electronic communications be postponed. berec started its operations in 2011 and 2012 was its first full financial year. the first year of the audit revealed several procurement errors and weaknesses in the internal control systems. the riga-based institution was taken over by its hungarian director, lászló ignéczi, in january this year. the reasons for the postponement of the discharge were established long before he took office, in 2011 and 2012. the agency has adopted an action plan and is doing its utmost to remedy the problems identified by parliament, and the rapporteur acknowledged the efforts of the current management. however, the committee recommended a delay, and a new report will be prepared in october, a decision i supported.
in writing. - the european court of auditors has prepared its annual report for the financial year 2012, which it presented to the european parliament's plenary and then to the committee on budgetary control. following the presentation of the report, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the implementation of the agencies' budgets in the context of the 2012 closure procedure. the panel recommended that the discharge of the body of european regulators for electronic communications be postponed. berec started its operations in 2011 and 2012 was the first full financial year of closure. the first year of the audit revealed several procurement errors and weaknesses in the internal control systems. the riga-based institution was taken over by its hungarian director, lászló ignéczi, in january this year. the reasons for the postponement of the discharge were established long before he took office, in 2011 and 2012. the agency has adopted an action plan and is doing its utmost to remedy the problems identified by parliament, and the finnish rapporteur acknowledged the efforts of the current management. however, the panel recommended a delay and a new report will be prepared in october.
in writing. - the european court of auditors has prepared its annual report for the financial year 2012, which it presented to the european parliament's plenary and then to the committee on budgetary control. following the presentation of the report, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the implementation of the agencies' budgets in the context of the 2012 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. as regards the management of the translation centre for the bodies of the european union for 2012, the final accounts report concludes that the financial audit was carried out in an orderly manner and that no deficiencies were found during the audit. so in the plenary vote on 3 april, i voted in favour of granting the discharge.
in writing. - the european court of auditors has prepared its annual report for the financial year 2012, which it presented to the european parliament's plenary and then to the committee on budgetary control. following the presentation of the report, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the implementation of the agencies' budgets in the context of the 2012 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. as regards the management of the translation centre for the bodies of the european union for 2012, the final accounts report concludes that the financial audit was carried out in an orderly manner and that no deficiencies were found during the audit. the commission notes that the commission did not provide any information on the amount of the aid granted to the beneficiaries. i voted in favour of granting the discharge in the committee vote and in the plenary vote on 3 april.
in writing. - the european court of auditors has prepared its annual report for the financial year 2012, which it presented to the european parliament's plenary and then to the committee on budgetary control. following the presentation of the report, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the implementation of the agencies' budgets in the context of the 2012 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. as regards the management of the european training and development centre for 2012, the final accounts report concludes that the financial audit was carried out in an orderly manner and that no deficiencies were found during the audit. so in the plenary vote on 3 april, i voted in favour of granting the discharge.
in writing. - the european court of auditors has prepared its annual report for the financial year 2012, which it presented to the european parliament's plenary and then to the committee on budgetary control. following the presentation of the report, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the implementation of the agencies' budgets in the context of the 2012 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. as regards the management of the european training and development centre for 2012, the final accounts report concludes that the financial audit was carried out in an orderly manner and that no deficiencies were found during the audit. the commission notes that the commission did not provide any information on the amount of the aid granted to the beneficiaries. i voted in favour of granting the discharge in the committee vote and in the plenary vote on 3 april.
in writing. - the european court of auditors has prepared its annual report for the financial year 2012, which it presented to the european parliament's plenary and then to the committee on budgetary control. following the presentation of the report, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the implementation of the agencies' budgets in the context of the 2012 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. as regards the management of cepol in 2012, the final accounts report states that the financial audit was carried out in an orderly manner and that no deficiencies were found during the audit. so in the plenary vote on 3 april, i voted in favour of granting the discharge.
in writing. - the european court of auditors has prepared its annual report for the financial year 2012, which it presented to the european parliament's plenary and then to the committee on budgetary control. following the presentation of the report, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the implementation of the agencies' budgets in the context of the 2012 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. as regards the management of cepol in 2012, the final accounts report states that the financial audit was carried out in an orderly manner and that no deficiencies were found during the audit. the commission notes that the commission did not provide any information on the amount of the aid granted to the beneficiaries. i voted in favour of granting the discharge in the committee vote and in the plenary vote on 3 april.
in writing. - today i voted in favour of the report by my colleague petri sarvamaa on the discharge of the european police college (cepol). i would like to congratulate the director of cepol, mr ferenc bánfi, on the fact that the ep has today found no objection to the functioning of the institution in its report on the discharge of the european police college. the problems that preceded his appointment as director are now over. the institute has proved itself to be worthy and capable of playing an independent role as a community institution. this is also important because the inter-institutional conflicts of recent months have called into question the need for cepol. it is important that today's report indirectly confirms the need for the police academy (cepol) and europol to operate independently of each other. all of which underscores the importance of police training without compromising the work of either institution.
in writing. - the european court of auditors has prepared its annual report for the financial year 2012, which it presented to the european parliament's plenary and then to the committee on budgetary control. following the presentation of the report, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the implementation of the agencies' budgets in the context of the 2012 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. as regards the management of cepol in 2012, the final accounts report states that the financial audit was carried out in an orderly manner and that no deficiencies were found during the audit. the commission notes that the commission did not provide any information on the amount of the aid granted to the beneficiaries. i voted in favour of granting the discharge in the committee vote and in the plenary vote on 3 april.
in writing. - the european court of auditors has prepared its annual report for the financial year 2012, which it presented to the european parliament's plenary and then to the committee on budgetary control. following the presentation of the report, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the implementation of the agencies' budgets in the context of the 2012 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. with regard to the management of the european aviation safety agency for the year 2012, the final accounts report concludes that the financial review was carried out in a proper manner and that no deficiencies were found during the audit. so in the plenary vote on 3 april, i voted in favour of granting the discharge.
in writing. - the european court of auditors has prepared its annual report for the financial year 2012, which it presented to the european parliament's plenary and then to the committee on budgetary control. following the presentation of the report, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the implementation of the agencies' budgets in the context of the 2012 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. with regard to the management of the european aviation safety agency for the year 2012, the final accounts report concludes that the financial review was carried out in a proper manner and that no deficiencies were found during the audit. the commission notes that the commission did not provide any information on the amount of the aid granted to the beneficiaries. i voted in favour of granting the discharge in the committee vote and in the plenary vote on 3 april.
in writing. - the european court of auditors has prepared its annual report for the financial year 2012, which it presented to the european parliament's plenary and then to the committee on budgetary control. following the presentation of the report, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the implementation of the agencies' budgets in the context of the 2012 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. with regard to the management of the european asylum support office for 2012, the final accounts report concludes that the financial audit was carried out in an orderly manner and that no deficiencies were found during the audit. so in the plenary vote on 3 april, i voted in favour of granting the discharge.
in writing. - the european court of auditors has prepared its annual report for the financial year 2012, which it presented to the european parliament's plenary and then to the committee on budgetary control. following the presentation of the report, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the implementation of the agencies' budgets in the context of the 2012 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. with regard to the management of the european asylum support office for 2012, the final accounts report concludes that the financial audit was carried out in an orderly manner and that no deficiencies were found during the audit. the commission notes that the commission did not provide any information on the amount of the aid granted to the beneficiaries. i voted in favour of granting the discharge in the committee vote and in the plenary vote on 3 april.
in writing. - the european asylum support office has been financially independent since 20 september 2012, having previously been budgeted by the commission. the court of auditors has found that the office's annual accounts for the financial year 2012 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. i am voting in favour of the european parliament approving the closure of the accounts of the european asylum support office for the financial year 2012.
in writing. - the european court of auditors has prepared its annual report for the financial year 2012, which it presented to the european parliament's plenary and then to the committee on budgetary control. following the presentation of the report, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the implementation of the agencies' budgets in the context of the 2012 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. with regard to the management of the european banking authority in 2012, the final report on the accounts states that the financial audit was carried out in a sound manner and that no deficiencies were found during the audit. so in the plenary vote on 3 april, i voted in favour of granting the discharge.
in writing. - the european court of auditors has prepared its annual report for the financial year 2012, which it presented to the european parliament's plenary and then to the committee on budgetary control. following the presentation of the report, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the implementation of the agencies' budgets in the context of the 2012 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. with regard to the management of the european banking authority in 2012, the final report on the accounts states that the financial audit was carried out in a sound manner and that no deficiencies were found during the audit. the commission notes that the commission did not provide any information on the amount of the aid granted to the beneficiaries. i voted in favour of granting the discharge in the committee vote and in the plenary vote on 3 april.
in writing. - the european court of auditors has prepared its annual report for the financial year 2012, which it presented to the european parliament's plenary and then to the committee on budgetary control. following the presentation of the report, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the implementation of the agencies' budgets in the context of the 2012 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. as regards the management of the european centre for disease prevention and control for the year 2012, the final accounts report states that the financial review was carried out in a proper manner and that no deficiencies were found during the audit. so in the plenary vote on 3 april, i voted in favour of granting the discharge.
in writing. - the european court of auditors has prepared its annual report for the financial year 2012, which it presented to the european parliament's plenary and then to the committee on budgetary control. following the presentation of the report, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the implementation of the agencies' budgets in the context of the 2012 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. as regards the management of the european centre for disease prevention and control for the year 2012, the final accounts report states that the financial review was carried out in a proper manner and that no deficiencies were found during the audit. the commission notes that the commission did not provide any information on the amount of the aid granted to the beneficiaries. i voted in favour of granting the discharge in the committee vote and in the plenary vote on 3 april.
in writing. - in the context of the closure of the accounts for the year 2012, on the basis of the annual report of the court of auditors and the recommendation of the committee on budgetary control, i am voting in favour of parliament granting the director of the european centre for disease prevention and control discharge in respect of the implementation of the centre's budget for the financial year 2012.
in writing. - the european court of auditors has prepared its annual report for the financial year 2012, which it presented to the european parliament's plenary and then to the committee on budgetary control. following the presentation of the report, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the implementation of the agencies' budgets in the context of the 2012 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. as regards the management of the european chemicals agency for 2012, the final accounts report states that the financial review was carried out in a proper manner and that no deficiencies were found during the audit. so in the plenary vote on 3 april, i voted in favour of granting the discharge.
in writing. - the european court of auditors has prepared its annual report for the financial year 2012, which it presented to the european parliament's plenary and then to the committee on budgetary control. following the presentation of the report, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the implementation of the agencies' budgets in the context of the 2012 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. as regards the management of the european chemicals agency for 2012, the final accounts report states that the financial review was carried out in a proper manner and that no deficiencies were found during the audit. the commission notes that the commission did not provide any information on the amount of the aid granted to the beneficiaries. i voted in favour of granting the discharge in the committee vote and in the plenary vote on 3 april.
in writing. - in the context of the closure of the accounts for the year 2012, on the basis of the annual report of the court of auditors and the recommendation of the committee on budgetary control, i am voting in favour of parliament's discharge to the executive director of the european chemicals agency in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2012.
in writing. - the european court of auditors has prepared its annual report for the financial year 2012, which it presented to the european parliament's plenary and then to the committee on budgetary control. following the presentation of the report, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the implementation of the agencies' budgets in the context of the 2012 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. as regards the management of the european environment agency for 2012, the final accounts report concludes that the financial audit was carried out in an orderly manner and that no deficiencies were found during the audit. so in the plenary vote on 3 april, i voted in favour of granting the discharge.
in writing. - the european court of auditors has prepared its annual report for the financial year 2012, which it presented to the european parliament's plenary and then to the committee on budgetary control. following the presentation of the report, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the implementation of the agencies' budgets in the context of the 2012 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. as regards the management of the european environment agency for 2012, the final accounts report concludes that the financial audit was carried out in an orderly manner and that no deficiencies were found during the audit. the commission notes that the commission did not provide any information on the amount of the aid granted to the beneficiaries. i voted in favour of granting the discharge in the committee vote and in the plenary vote on 3 april.
in writing. - in the context of the closure of the accounts for the year 2012, on the basis of the court of auditors' annual report and the recommendation of the committee on budgetary control, i am voting in favour of the parliament's decision to postpone the discharge to the executive director of the european environment agency in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2012.
in writing. - the european court of auditors has prepared its annual report for the financial year 2012, which it presented to the european parliament's plenary and then to the committee on budgetary control. following the presentation of the report, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the implementation of the agencies' budgets in the context of the 2012 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. as regards the management of the european fisheries control agency for 2012, the final accounts report concludes that the financial audit was carried out in an orderly manner and that no deficiencies were found during the audit. so in the plenary vote on 3 april, i voted in favour of granting the discharge.
in writing. - the european court of auditors has prepared its annual report for the financial year 2012, which it presented to the european parliament's plenary and then to the committee on budgetary control. following the presentation of the report, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the implementation of the agencies' budgets in the context of the 2012 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. as regards the management of the european fisheries control agency for 2012, the final accounts report concludes that the financial audit was carried out in an orderly manner and that no deficiencies were found during the audit. the commission notes that the commission did not provide any information on the amount of the aid granted to the beneficiaries. i voted in favour of granting the discharge in the committee vote and in the plenary vote on 3 april.
in writing. - in the context of the closure of the accounts for the financial year 2012, on the basis of the annual report of the court of auditors and the recommendation of the committee on budgetary control, i am voting in favour of parliament's granting the director of the community fisheries control agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the community fisheries control agency for the financial year 2012.
in writing. - the european court of auditors has prepared its annual report for the financial year 2012, which it presented to the european parliament's plenary and then to the committee on budgetary control. following the presentation of the report, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the implementation of the agencies' budgets in the context of the 2012 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. as regards the management of the european food safety authority for the year 2012, the final accounts report states that the financial controls were carried out in a proper manner and that no deficiencies were found during the audit. so in the plenary vote on 3 april, i voted in favour of granting the discharge.
in writing. - the european court of auditors has prepared its annual report for the financial year 2012, which it presented to the european parliament's plenary and then to the committee on budgetary control. following the presentation of the report, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the implementation of the agencies' budgets in the context of the 2012 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. as regards the management of the european food safety authority for the year 2012, the final accounts report states that the financial controls were carried out in a proper manner and that no deficiencies were found during the audit. the commission notes that the commission did not provide any information on the amount of the aid granted to the beneficiaries. i voted in favour of granting the discharge in the committee vote and in the plenary vote on 3 april.
in writing. - in the context of the closure of the accounts for the year 2012, on the basis of the annual report of the court of auditors and the recommendation of the committee on budgetary control, i am voting in favour of parliament's discharge to the executive director of the european food safety authority in respect of the implementation of the authority's budget for the financial year 2011.
in writing. - the european court of auditors has prepared its annual report for the financial year 2012, which it presented to the european parliament's plenary and then to the committee on budgetary control. following the presentation of the report, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the implementation of the agencies' budgets in the context of the 2012 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. with regard to the management of the european institute for gender equality in 2012, the final accounts report concludes that the financial audit was carried out in a proper manner and that no deficiencies were found during the audit. so in the plenary vote on 3 april, i voted in favour of granting the discharge.
in writing. - the european court of auditors has prepared its annual report for the financial year 2012, which it presented to the european parliament's plenary and then to the committee on budgetary control. following the presentation of the report, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the implementation of the agencies' budgets in the context of the 2012 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. with regard to the management of the european institute for gender equality in 2012, the final accounts report concludes that the financial audit was carried out in a proper manner and that no deficiencies were found during the audit. the commission notes that the commission did not provide any information on the amount of the aid granted to the beneficiaries. i voted in favour of granting the discharge in the committee vote and in the plenary vote on 3 april.
in writing. - the european court of auditors has prepared its annual report for the financial year 2012, which it presented to the european parliament's plenary and then to the committee on budgetary control. following the presentation of the report, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the implementation of the agencies' budgets in the context of the 2012 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. as regards the management of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority for 2012, the final accounts report concludes that the financial controls were carried out in a sound manner and that the audit found no deficiencies. so in the plenary vote on 3 april, i voted in favour of granting the discharge.
in writing. - the european court of auditors has prepared its annual report for the financial year 2012, which it presented to the european parliament's plenary and then to the committee on budgetary control. following the presentation of the report, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the implementation of the agencies' budgets in the context of the 2012 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. as regards the management of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority for 2012, the final accounts report concludes that the financial controls were carried out in a sound manner and that the audit found no deficiencies. the commission notes that the commission did not provide any information on the amount of the aid granted to the beneficiaries. i voted in favour of granting the discharge in the committee vote and in the plenary vote on 3 april.
in writing. - in the context of the closure of the accounts for the financial year 2012, on the basis of the annual report of the court of auditors and the recommendation of the committee on budgetary control, i am voting in favour of parliament granting discharge to the executive director of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority in respect of the implementation of the authority's budget for the financial year 2012.
in writing. - the european court of auditors has prepared its annual report for the financial year 2012, which it presented to the european parliament's plenary and then to the committee on budgetary control. following the presentation of the report, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the implementation of the agencies' budgets in the context of the 2012 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. with regard to the management of the european institute of innovation and technology for 2012, the final accounts report concludes that the financial audit was carried out in a proper manner and that no deficiencies were found during the audit. so in the plenary vote on 3 april, i voted in favour of granting the discharge.
in writing. - the european court of auditors has prepared its annual report for the financial year 2012, which it presented to the european parliament's plenary and then to the committee on budgetary control. following the presentation of the report, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the implementation of the agencies' budgets in the context of the 2012 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. with regard to the management of the european institute of innovation and technology for 2012, the final accounts report concludes that the financial audit was carried out in a proper manner and that no deficiencies were found during the audit. the commission notes that the commission did not provide any information on the amount of the aid granted to the beneficiaries. i voted in favour of granting the discharge in the committee vote and in the plenary vote on 3 april.
in writing. - in the context of the closure of the accounts for the year 2012, on the basis of the court of auditors' annual report and the recommendation of the committee on budgetary control, i am voting in favour of parliament's granting the director of the european institute of innovation and technology discharge in respect of the implementation of the institute's budget for the financial year 2012.
in writing. - the european court of auditors has prepared its annual report for the financial year 2012, which it presented to the european parliament's plenary and then to the committee on budgetary control. following the presentation of the report, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the implementation of the agencies' budgets in the context of the 2012 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. as regards the management of the european medicines agency for 2012, the final accounts report states that the financial control was carried out in an orderly manner and that no deficiencies were found during the audit. so in the plenary vote on 3 april, i voted in favour of granting the discharge.
in writing. - the european court of auditors has prepared its annual report for the financial year 2012, which it presented to the european parliament's plenary and then to the committee on budgetary control. following the presentation of the report, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the implementation of the agencies' budgets in the context of the 2012 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. as regards the management of the european medicines agency for 2012, the final accounts report states that the financial control was carried out in an orderly manner and that no deficiencies were found during the audit. the commission notes that the commission did not provide any information on the amount of the aid granted to the beneficiaries. i voted in favour of granting the discharge in the committee vote and in the plenary vote on 3 april.
in writing. - in the context of the closure of the accounts for the year 2012, on the basis of the annual report of the court of auditors and the recommendation of the committee on budgetary control, i am voting in favour of parliament's granting the discharge to the executive director of the european medicines agency in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2012.
in writing. - the european court of auditors has prepared its annual report for the financial year 2012, which it presented to the european parliament's plenary and then to the committee on budgetary control. following the presentation of the report, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the implementation of the agencies' budgets in the context of the 2012 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the final report on the 2012 management of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction concludes that the financial audit was carried out in an orderly manner and that no deficiencies were found in the audit. so in the plenary vote on 3 april, i voted in favour of granting the discharge.
in writing. - the european court of auditors has prepared its annual report for the financial year 2012, which it presented to the european parliament's plenary and then to the committee on budgetary control. following the presentation of the report, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the implementation of the agencies' budgets in the context of the 2012 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the final report on the 2012 management of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction concludes that the financial audit was carried out in an orderly manner and that no deficiencies were found in the audit. the commission notes that the commission did not provide any information on the amount of the aid granted to the beneficiaries. i voted in favour of granting the discharge in the committee vote and in the plenary vote on 3 april.
in writing. - in the context of the closure of the 2012 accounts procedure, on the basis of the court of auditors' annual report and the recommendation of the committee on budgetary control, i am voting in favour of parliament's granting the director of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction discharge in respect of the implementation of the centre's budget for the financial year 2012.
in writing. - the european court of auditors has prepared its annual report for the financial year 2012, which it presented to the european parliament's plenary and then to the committee on budgetary control. following the presentation of the report, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the implementation of the agencies' budgets in the context of the 2012 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. as regards the management of the european maritime safety agency for 2012, the final accounts report concludes that the financial audit was carried out in a proper manner and that no deficiencies were found during the audit. so in the plenary vote on 3 april, i voted in favour of granting the discharge.
in writing. - the european court of auditors has prepared its annual report for the financial year 2012, which it presented to the european parliament's plenary and then to the committee on budgetary control. following the presentation of the report, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the implementation of the agencies' budgets in the context of the 2012 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. as regards the management of the european maritime safety agency for 2012, the final accounts report concludes that the financial audit was carried out in a proper manner and that no deficiencies were found during the audit. the commission notes that the commission did not provide any information on the amount of the aid granted to the beneficiaries. i voted in favour of granting the discharge in the committee vote and in the plenary vote on 3 april.
in writing. - the european court of auditors has prepared its annual report for the financial year 2012, which it presented to the european parliament's plenary and then to the committee on budgetary control. following the presentation of the report, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the implementation of the agencies' budgets in the context of the 2012 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. as regards the management of the european network and information security agency for the year 2012, the final accounts report concludes that the financial audit was carried out in a proper manner and that no deficiencies were found during the audit. so in the plenary vote on 3 april, i voted in favour of granting the discharge.
in writing. - the european court of auditors has prepared its annual report for the financial year 2012, which it presented to the european parliament's plenary and then to the committee on budgetary control. following the presentation of the report, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the implementation of the agencies' budgets in the context of the 2012 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. as regards the management of the european network and information security agency for the year 2012, the final accounts report concludes that the financial audit was carried out in a proper manner and that no deficiencies were found during the audit. the commission notes that the commission did not provide any information on the amount of the aid granted to the beneficiaries. i voted in favour of granting the discharge in the committee vote and in the plenary vote on 3 april.
in writing. - the european court of auditors has prepared its annual report for the financial year 2012, which it presented to the european parliament's plenary and then to the committee on budgetary control. following the presentation of the report, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the implementation of the agencies' budgets in the context of the 2012 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. as regards the management of the european network and information security agency for the year 2012, the final accounts report concludes that the financial audit was carried out in a proper manner and that no deficiencies were found during the audit. the commission notes that the commission did not provide any information on the amount of the aid granted to the beneficiaries. i voted in favour of granting the discharge in the committee vote and in the plenary vote on 3 april.
in writing. - in the context of the closure of the accounts for the year 2012, on the basis of the court of auditors' annual report and the recommendation of the committee on budgetary control, i am voting in favour of parliament's discharge to the executive director of the european network and information security agency in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2012.
in writing. - the european court of auditors has prepared its annual report for the financial year 2012, which it presented to the european parliament's plenary and then to the committee on budgetary control. following the presentation of the report, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the implementation of the agencies' budgets in the context of the 2012 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. as regards the management of the european railway agency for 2012, the final accounts report states that the financial audit was carried out in order and that no deficiencies were found during the audit. so in the plenary vote on 3 april, i voted in favour of granting the discharge.
in writing. - the european court of auditors has prepared its annual report for the financial year 2012, which it presented to the european parliament's plenary and then to the committee on budgetary control. following the presentation of the report, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the implementation of the agencies' budgets in the context of the 2012 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. as regards the management of the european railway agency for 2012, the final accounts report states that the financial audit was carried out in order and that no deficiencies were found during the audit. the commission notes that the commission did not provide any information on the amount of the aid granted to the beneficiaries. i voted in favour of granting the discharge in the committee vote and in the plenary vote on 3 april.
in writing. - in the context of the closure of the accounts for the financial year 2012, on the basis of the annual report of the court of auditors and the recommendation of the committee on budgetary control, i am voting in favour of parliament's discharge to the executive director of the european railway agency in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2012.
in writing. - the european court of auditors has prepared its annual report for the financial year 2012, which it presented to the european parliament's plenary and then to the committee on budgetary control. following the presentation of the report, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the implementation of the agencies' budgets in the context of the 2012 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. as regards the management of the european securities and markets authority for 2012, the final accounts report concludes that the financial review was carried out in a sound manner and that no deficiencies were found during the investigation. so in the plenary vote on 3 april, i voted in favour of granting the discharge.
in writing. - the european court of auditors has prepared its annual report for the financial year 2012, which it presented to the european parliament's plenary and then to the committee on budgetary control. following the presentation of the report, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the implementation of the agencies' budgets in the context of the 2012 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. as regards the management of the european securities and markets authority for 2012, the final accounts report concludes that the financial review was carried out in a sound manner and that no deficiencies were found during the investigation. the commission notes that the commission did not provide any information on the amount of the aid granted to the beneficiaries. i voted in favour of granting the discharge in the committee vote and in the plenary vote on 3 april.
in writing. - the european court of auditors has prepared its annual report for the financial year 2012, which it presented to the european parliament's plenary and then to the committee on budgetary control. following the presentation of the report, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the implementation of the agencies' budgets in the context of the 2012 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. as regards the management of the european training foundation for 2012, the final accounts report states that the financial audit was carried out in a proper manner and that no deficiencies were found during the audit. so in the plenary vote on 3 april, i voted in favour of granting the discharge.
in writing. - the european court of auditors has prepared its annual report for the financial year 2012, which it presented to the european parliament's plenary and then to the committee on budgetary control. following the presentation of the report, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the implementation of the agencies' budgets in the context of the 2012 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. as regards the management of the european training foundation for 2012, the final accounts report states that the financial audit was carried out in a proper manner and that no deficiencies were found during the audit. the commission notes that the commission did not provide any information on the amount of the aid granted to the beneficiaries. i voted in favour of granting the discharge in the committee vote and in the plenary vote on 3 april.
in writing. - in the context of the closure of the accounts for the financial year 2012, on the basis of the annual report of the court of auditors and the recommendation of the committee on budgetary control, i am voting in favour of parliament's discharge to the director of the european training foundation for the implementation of the foundation's budget for the financial year 2012.
in writing. - the european court of auditors has prepared its annual report for the financial year 2012, which it presented to the european parliament's plenary and then to the committee on budgetary control. following the presentation of the report, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the implementation of the agencies' budgets in the context of the 2012 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. as regards the management of the european agency for safety and health at work for the year 2012, the final accounts report concludes that the financial audit was carried out in a proper manner and that no deficiencies were found during the audit. so in the plenary vote on 3 april, i voted in favour of granting the discharge.
in writing. - the european court of auditors has prepared its annual report for the financial year 2012, which it presented to the european parliament's plenary and then to the committee on budgetary control. following the presentation of the report, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the implementation of the agencies' budgets in the context of the 2012 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. as regards the management of the european agency for safety and health at work for the year 2012, the final accounts report concludes that the financial audit was carried out in a proper manner and that no deficiencies were found during the audit. the commission notes that the commission did not provide any information on the amount of the aid granted to the beneficiaries. i voted in favour of granting the discharge in the committee vote and in the plenary vote on 3 april.
in writing. - in the context of the closure of the accounts for the year 2012, on the basis of the court of auditors' annual report and the recommendation of the committee on budgetary control, i am voting in favour of parliament's discharge to the director of the european agency for safety and health at work in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2012.
in writing. - the european court of auditors has prepared its annual report for the financial year 2012, which it presented to the european parliament's plenary and then to the committee on budgetary control. following the presentation of the report, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the implementation of the agencies' budgets in the context of the 2012 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. as regards the management of the euratom supply agency, the final accounts report states that the financial audit was carried out in an orderly manner and that no deficiencies were found during the audit. so in the plenary vote on 3 april, i voted in favour of granting the discharge.
in writing. - the european court of auditors has prepared its annual report for the financial year 2012, which it presented to the european parliament's plenary and then to the committee on budgetary control. following the presentation of the report, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the implementation of the agencies' budgets in the context of the 2012 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. as regards the management of the euratom supply agency, the final accounts report states that the financial audit was carried out in an orderly manner and that no deficiencies were found during the audit. at its meeting on 17 march, the committee decided to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2012, with 16 votes in favour, three against and one abstention. i voted in favour of granting the discharge in the committee vote and in the plenary vote on 3 april.
in writing. - the european court of auditors has prepared its annual report for the financial year 2012, which it presented to the european parliament's plenary and then to the committee on budgetary control. following the presentation of the report, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the implementation of the agencies' budgets in the context of the 2012 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. with regard to the management of the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions for 2012, the final accounts report concludes that the financial audit was carried out in an orderly manner and that no deficiencies were found in the audit. so in the plenary vote on 3 april, i voted in favour of granting the discharge.
in writing. - the european court of auditors has prepared its annual report for the financial year 2012, which it presented to the european parliament's plenary and then to the committee on budgetary control. following the presentation of the report, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the implementation of the agencies' budgets in the context of the 2012 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. with regard to the management of the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions for 2012, the final accounts report concludes that the financial audit was carried out in an orderly manner and that no deficiencies were found in the audit. the commission notes that the commission did not provide any information on the amount of the aid granted to the beneficiaries. i voted in favour of granting the discharge in the committee vote and in the plenary vote on 3 april.
in writing. - in the context of the closure of the accounts for the year 2012, on the basis of the court of auditors' annual report and the recommendation of the committee on budgetary control, i am voting in favour of parliament granting the director of the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions discharge in respect of the implementation of the foundation's budget for the financial year 2012.
in writing. - the european court of auditors has prepared its annual report for the financial year 2012, which it presented to the european parliament's plenary and then to the committee on budgetary control. following the presentation of the report, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the implementation of the agencies' budgets in the context of the 2012 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. as regards the management of eurojust in 2012, the final accounts report concludes that the financial audit was carried out in an orderly manner and that no deficiencies were found during the audit. so in the plenary vote on 3 april, i voted in favour of granting the discharge.
in writing. - the european court of auditors has prepared its annual report for the financial year 2012, which it presented to the european parliament's plenary and then to the committee on budgetary control. following the presentation of the report, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the implementation of the agencies' budgets in the context of the 2012 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. as regards the management of eurojust in 2012, the final accounts report concludes that the financial audit was carried out in an orderly manner and that no deficiencies were found during the audit. the commission notes that the commission did not provide any information on the amount of the aid granted to the beneficiaries. i voted in favour of granting the discharge in the committee vote and in the plenary vote on 3 april.
in writing. - the european court of auditors has prepared its annual report for the financial year 2012, which it presented to the european parliament's plenary and then to the committee on budgetary control. following the presentation of the report, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the implementation of the agencies' budgets in the context of the 2012 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. as regards the management of eurojust in 2012, the final accounts report concludes that the financial audit was carried out in an orderly manner and that no deficiencies were found during the audit. the commission notes that the commission did not provide any information on the amount of the aid granted to the beneficiaries. in the plenary vote on 3 april, i voted in favour of granting the discharge.
in writing. - following the presentation by the european court of auditors of its annual report for the financial year 2012, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning europol in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2012. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the european parliament has approved the closure of the accounts of the european police office for the financial year 2012. the court of auditors has satisfied itself that the annual accounts of the european police office are true and correct in all respects as regards the financial position of the office for the year 2012 and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. so in the plenary vote i voted in favour of granting the discharge.
in writing. - following the presentation by the european court of auditors of its annual report for the financial year 2012, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning europol in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2012. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the european parliament has approved the closure of the accounts of the european police office for the financial year 2012. the court of auditors has satisfied itself that the annual accounts of the european police office are true and correct in all respects as regards the financial position of the office for the year 2012 and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the committee decided at its meeting on 17 march to grant the discharge, to close the 2012 accounts, and i supported the discharge in the vote in the committee and in the vote in plenary.
in writing. - following the presentation by the european court of auditors of its annual report for the financial year 2012, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning europol in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2012. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the european parliament has approved the closure of the accounts of the european police office for the financial year 2012. the court of auditors has satisfied itself that the annual accounts of the european police office are true and correct in all respects as regards the financial position of the office for the year 2012 and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the committee decided at its meeting on 17 march to grant the discharge, to close the 2012 accounts, and i supported the discharge in the vote in the committee and in the vote in plenary.
in writing. - the european court of auditors has prepared its annual report for the financial year 2012, which it presented to the european parliament's plenary and then to the committee on budgetary control. following the presentation of the report, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the implementation of the agencies' budgets in the context of the 2012 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. as regards the management of the european union agency for fundamental rights for 2012, the final report on the accounts concludes that the financial audit was carried out in a proper manner and that no deficiencies were found during the audit. so in the plenary vote on 3 april, i voted in favour of granting the discharge.
in writing. - the european court of auditors has prepared its annual report for the financial year 2012, which it presented to the european parliament's plenary and then to the committee on budgetary control. following the presentation of the report, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the implementation of the agencies' budgets in the context of the 2012 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. as regards the management of the european union agency for fundamental rights for 2012, the final report on the accounts concludes that the financial audit was carried out in a proper manner and that no deficiencies were found during the audit. the commission notes that the commission did not provide any information on the amount of the aid granted to the beneficiaries. i voted in favour of granting the discharge in the committee vote and in the plenary vote on 3 april.
in writing. - the european court of auditors has prepared its annual report for the financial year 2012, which it presented to the european parliament's plenary and then to the committee on budgetary control. following the presentation of the report, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the implementation of the agencies' budgets in the context of the 2012 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. as regards the management of the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union, the final accounts report states that the financial controls were carried out in an orderly manner and that no deficiencies were found during the audit. so in the plenary vote on 3 april, i voted in favour of granting the discharge.
in writing. - the european court of auditors has prepared its annual report for the financial year 2012, which it presented to the european parliament's plenary and then to the committee on budgetary control. following the presentation of the report, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the implementation of the agencies' budgets in the context of the 2012 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. as regards the management of the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union, the final accounts report states that the financial controls were carried out in an orderly manner and that no deficiencies were found during the audit. at its meeting on 17 march, the committee decided to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2012, with 15 votes in favour, four against and one abstention. i voted in favour of granting the discharge in the committee vote and in the plenary vote on 3 april.
in writing. - in the context of the closure of the accounts for the year 2012, on the basis of the court of auditors' annual report and the recommendation of the committee on budgetary control, i am voting in favour of parliament granting discharge to the executive director of the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2012.
in writing. - the european court of auditors has prepared its annual report for the financial year 2012, which it presented to the european parliament's plenary and then to the committee on budgetary control. following the presentation of the report, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the implementation of the agencies' budgets in the context of the 2012 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. with regard to the management of the european global navigation satellite system in 2012, the final accounts report concludes that the financial review was carried out in a proper manner and that no deficiencies were found in the audit. so in the plenary vote on 3 april, i voted in favour of granting the discharge.
in writing. - the european court of auditors has prepared its annual report for the financial year 2012, which it presented to the european parliament's plenary and then to the committee on budgetary control. following the presentation of the report, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the implementation of the agencies' budgets in the context of the 2012 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. with regard to the management of the european global navigation satellite system in 2012, the final accounts report concludes that the financial review was carried out in a proper manner and that no deficiencies were found in the audit. the commission notes that the commission did not provide any information on the amount of the aid granted to the beneficiaries. i voted in favour of granting the discharge in the committee vote and in the plenary vote on 3 april.
in writing. - the european court of auditors has prepared its annual report for the financial year 2012, which it presented to the european parliament's plenary and then to the committee on budgetary control. following the presentation of the report, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the implementation of the agencies' budgets in the context of the 2012 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. with regard to the management of the artemis joint undertaking in 2012, the final report concludes that the financial review was carried out in a sound manner and that no deficiencies were found during the investigation. so in the plenary vote on 3 april, i voted in favour of granting the discharge.
in writing. - the european court of auditors has prepared its annual report for the financial year 2012, which it presented to the european parliament's plenary and then to the committee on budgetary control. following the presentation of the report, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the implementation of the agencies' budgets in the context of the 2012 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. as vice-chair of the committee on budgetary control, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report on the regularity of the implementation of the artemis joint undertaking in the vote in committee. the report was adopted by a large majority of the committee. with regard to the management of the artemis joint undertaking in 2012, the final report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no deficiencies were found during the investigation. the commission notes that the commission did not provide any information on the amount of the aid granted to the beneficiaries. i voted in favour of granting the discharge in the committee vote and in the plenary vote on 3 april.
in writing. - in the context of the closure of the 2012 financial year, on the basis of the court of auditors' annual report and the recommendation of the committee on budgetary control, i am voting in favour of parliament's granting the executive director of the artemis joint undertaking discharge in respect of the implementation of the joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2012.
in writing. - the european court of auditors has prepared its annual report for the financial year 2012, which it presented to the european parliament's plenary and then to the committee on budgetary control. following the presentation of the report, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the implementation of the agencies' budgets in the context of the 2012 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. with regard to the management of the clean sky joint undertaking in 2012, the final report concludes that the financial review was carried out in a proper manner and that no deficiencies were found during the investigation. so in the plenary vote on 3 april, i voted in favour of granting the discharge.
in writing. - the european court of auditors has prepared its annual report for the financial year 2012, which it presented to the european parliament's plenary and then to the committee on budgetary control. following the presentation of the report, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the implementation of the agencies' budgets in the context of the 2012 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. as vice-chair of the budgetary control committee, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report on the regularity of the implementation of the clean sky joint undertaking in the vote in committee. the report was adopted by a large majority of the committee. with regard to the management of the clean sky joint undertaking in 2012, the final report concludes that the financial review was carried out in a proper manner and that no deficiencies were found during the investigation. the commission notes that the commission did not provide any information on the amount of the aid granted to the beneficiaries. i voted in favour of granting the discharge in the committee vote and in the plenary vote on 3 april.
in writing. - in the context of the closure of the accounts for the financial year 2012, on the basis of the annual report of the court of auditors and the recommendation of the committee on budgetary control, i am voting in favour of parliament's discharge to the executive director of the clean sky joint undertaking in respect of the implementation of the joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2012.
in writing. - the european court of auditors has prepared its annual report for the financial year 2012, which it presented to the european parliament's plenary and then to the committee on budgetary control. following the presentation of the report, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the implementation of the agencies' budgets in the context of the 2012 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. with regard to the management of the eniac joint undertaking in 2012, the final report concludes that the financial review was carried out in a sound manner and that no deficiencies were found during the review. so in the plenary vote on 3 april, i voted in favour of granting the discharge.
in writing. - the european court of auditors has prepared its annual report for the financial year 2012, which it presented to the european parliament's plenary and then to the committee on budgetary control. following the presentation of the report, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the implementation of the agencies' budgets in the context of the 2012 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. as vice-chair of the committee on budgetary control, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report on the regularity of the implementation of the eniac joint undertaking in the vote of the expert committee. the report was adopted by a large majority of the committee. with regard to the management of the eniac joint undertaking in 2012, the final report concludes that the financial review was carried out in a sound manner and that no deficiencies were found during the review. the commission notes that the commission did not provide any information on the amount of the aid granted to the beneficiaries. i voted in favour of granting the discharge in the committee vote and in the plenary vote on 3 april.
in writing. - in the context of the closure of the 2012 accounts procedure, on the basis of the court of auditors' annual report and the recommendation of the committee on budgetary control, i am voting in favour of parliament's discharge to the director of the eniac joint undertaking in respect of the implementation of the joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2012.
in writing. - the european court of auditors has prepared its annual report for the financial year 2012, which it presented to the european parliament's plenary and then to the committee on budgetary control. following the presentation of the report, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the implementation of the agencies' budgets in the context of the 2012 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. with regard to the management of the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking in 2012, the final report concludes that the financial review was in order and that no deficiencies were found in the investigation. so in the plenary vote on 3 april, i voted in favour of granting the discharge.
in writing. - the european court of auditors has prepared its annual report for the financial year 2012, which it presented to the european parliament's plenary and then to the committee on budgetary control. following the presentation of the report, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the implementation of the agencies' budgets in the context of the 2012 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. as vice-chair of the budgetary control committee, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report on the regularity of the implementation of the fuel cell and hydrogen joint undertaking in the vote in the committee. the report was adopted by a large majority of the committee. with regard to the management of the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking in 2012, the final report concludes that the financial review was in order and that no deficiencies were found in the investigation. the commission notes that the commission did not provide any information on the amount of the aid granted to the beneficiaries. i voted in favour of granting the discharge in the committee vote and in the plenary vote on 3 april.
in writing. - the european court of auditors has prepared its annual report for the financial year 2012, which it presented to the european parliament's plenary and then to the committee on budgetary control. following the presentation of the report, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the implementation of the agencies' budgets in the context of the 2012 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. with regard to the management of the innovative medicines initiative joint undertaking in 2012, the final report concludes that the financial review was carried out in a sound manner and that no deficiencies were found during the examination. so in the plenary vote on 3 april, i voted in favour of granting the discharge.
in writing. - the european court of auditors has prepared its annual report for the financial year 2012, which it presented to the european parliament's plenary and then to the committee on budgetary control. following the presentation of the report, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the implementation of the agencies' budgets in the context of the 2012 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. as vice-chair of the committee on budgetary control, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report on the regularity of the implementation of the budget of the joint undertaking for the research initiative on innovative medicines in the vote in committee. the report was adopted by a large majority of the committee. with regard to the management of the innovative medicines initiative joint undertaking in 2012, the final report concludes that the financial review was carried out in a sound manner and that no deficiencies were found during the examination. the commission notes that the commission did not provide any information on the amount of the aid granted to the beneficiaries. i voted in favour of granting the discharge in the committee vote and in the plenary vote on 3 april.
in writing. - in the context of the closure of the 2012 accounts procedure, on the basis of the court of auditors' annual report and the recommendation of the committee on budgetary control, i am voting in favour of parliament granting a discharge to the executive director of the innovative medicines research initiative joint undertaking in respect of the implementation of the joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2012.
in writing. - the european court of auditors has prepared its annual report for the financial year 2012, which it presented to the european parliament's plenary and then to the committee on budgetary control. following the presentation of the report, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the implementation of the agencies' budgets in the context of the 2012 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. with regard to the management of the european joint undertaking for the development of fusion energy and iter for 2012, the final report concludes that the financial review was carried out in a sound manner and that no deficiencies were found in the audit. so in the plenary vote on 3 april, i voted in favour of granting the discharge.
in writing. - the european court of auditors has prepared its annual report for the financial year 2012, which it presented to the european parliament's plenary and then to the committee on budgetary control. following the presentation of the report, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the implementation of the agencies' budgets in the context of the 2012 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. as vice-chair of the budgetary control committee, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report on the regularity of the implementation of the budget of the iter european joint undertaking in the vote in committee. the report was adopted by a large majority of the committee. with regard to the management of the iter european joint undertaking in 2012, the final report concludes that the financial review was conducted in a sound manner and that no deficiencies were found in the audit. the commission notes that the commission did not provide any information on the amount of the aid granted to the beneficiaries. i voted in favour of granting the discharge in the committee vote and in the plenary vote on 3 april.
in writing. - in the context of the closure of the 2012 accounts procedure, on the basis of the court of auditors' annual report and the recommendation of the committee on budgetary control, i am voting in favour of parliament granting the director of the european joint undertaking for the development of fusion energy and iter discharge in respect of the implementation of the joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2012.
in writing. - the european court of auditors has prepared its annual report for the financial year 2012, which it presented to the european parliament's plenary and then to the committee on budgetary control. following the presentation of the report, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the implementation of the agencies' budgets in the context of the 2012 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. with regard to the management of the sesar joint undertaking in 2012, the final report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no deficiencies were found during the investigation. so in the plenary vote on 3 april, i voted in favour of granting the discharge.
in writing. - the european court of auditors has prepared its annual report for the financial year 2012, which it presented to the european parliament's plenary and then to the committee on budgetary control. following the presentation of the report, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the implementation of the agencies' budgets in the context of the 2012 closure procedure. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. as vice-chair of the committee on budgetary control, i voted in favour of the adoption of the report on the regularity of the implementation of the budget of the sesar joint undertaking in the vote in committee. the report was adopted by the committee with one abstention. with regard to the management of the sesar joint undertaking in 2012, the final report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no deficiencies were found during the investigation. the commission notes that the commission did not provide any information on the amount of the aid granted to the beneficiaries. i voted in favour of granting the discharge in the committee vote and in the plenary vote on 3 april.
in writing. - in the context of the closure of the accounts for the financial year 2012, on the basis of the court of auditors' annual report and the recommendation to the committee on budgetary control, i am voting in favour of parliament's granting of a discharge to the executive director of the sesar joint undertaking in respect of the implementation of the budget of the sesar joint undertaking for the financial year 2012.
in writing. - the annual report of the european parliament's committee on budgetary control on the protection of the european union's financial interests and the fight against fraud will be drawn up in the context of the closure of the accounts for 2012. the proposal summarises the efforts made in 2012 by the european commission, olaf and the member states to protect the community's financial interests and to strengthen the sound use of community funds. the report shall also adequately identify areas where further action is needed and where action so far has not been successful. the report welcomes the fact that the european commission at the initiative of the european parliament has started the legal environment review for the establishment of the european public prosecutor's office, the creation of which will allow for a stronger response to financial fraud cases in the community. it also welcomes the results of the 2011 vat reform. the report also outlines the necessary changes to olaf's governance and urges the commission to further strengthen its action against cigarette smuggling. i supported the vote on the report in committee and in plenary.
the purpose of the soil is to produce food. consequently, no arable land can be used for the production of fuel. do you agree with my position? question no 2: a new term: 'fracking' means exploratory research into shale gas extraction. this is done by among others a multinational company in romania, where television footage shows people protesting for fear of their safety, exposed to police violence. what does the commission know about this, what does the rapporteur know about this? third question: is it by chance that this whole anti-russian hysteria, in which the european union and america are fighting together against the so-called anti-russianism, is it because the united states wants to export shale gas to the european union, my brother would ask, but since i have no brother, i am forced to ask this. thank you very much.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, my congratulations first of all to mr gualtieri for his report. i am happy to go along with most of what he has said, if not, indeed, all. it seems to me there will always be tension between politicians and lobbyists, principally because their objectives both overlap and converge. lobbyists offer information and politicians can find this useful, but that information may turn out to be slanted. the problems arise when either the information is dubious in some way or when the lobbying becomes intrusive and inappropriate. not least, lobbyists can be in possession of considerable financial resources, which can then pressure politicians. it is to tackle these potential and actual abuses that the transparency register – the subject of an interinstitutional agreement – seeks to develop a framework that will further clarify practices. lobbyists are expected to register, but this is not mandatory. in this connection it would make a major difference if the commission were to take steps to provide a proper legal base for the transparency register. all the same, the net is cast wide. lobbyists are expected to declare their interests and the identity of their clients. they should not become fronts, hiding whom they are representing, and they should not be intrusive. law firms should declare the identity of clients, but lawyer/client confidentiality is respected – and incidentally, regions do not, as such, fall into the category of lobbyists. there are carrots as well as sticks. registered lobbyists will be placed in a superior position to those not registered in terms of access and participation. in all, this report represents a very welcome step in the direction of greater transparency.
madam president, congratulations to roberto gualtieri for his excellent work. the perceived and often genuine lack of transparency of the european institutions remains one of the main issues raised by european citizens, one that contributes to the growing gap of distrust towards the european union and politicians in general. while an increasing number of issues are being regulated at eu level it is therefore paramount to ensure that activities of interest representatives are properly monitored. dialogue with and involvement of civil society is crucial in the work of the european institutions, and it has to be conducted in a transparent manner within a clear legal framework. in this respect the setting up of the transparency register has been an important step. it is now time to be more ambitious and to aim for the establishment of a mandatory register that would be joined by the council as well. this is why i welcome the position outlined in this report. we are now counting on the commission to provide an appropriate proposal, based on a sound legal basis, that would enable us to continue on the way to a more transparent european union for the benefit of all.
my fellow members of the house of representatives! from time to time, i wonder how politicians can make such evil and inhumane decisions that impoverish and make miserable millions of people across europe, while banks and multinationals flourish. now the austrian trade union federation and a few other organizations have released a scientific report that gives the answer. it's clear from the report that the decisions are not made by politicians, but by lobbyists, by those international financial interests that spend 120 million euros a year on lobbying. they have 1,700 paid lobbyists, and before anyone can say, "well, there are good lobbyists", they have seven times as many financial lobbyists as there are civil lobbyists, and they spend 30 times as much money on influencing politicians as the civil sector.
the interest is huge, 24 of the 766 members of the house are in the room, which is an extremely good ratio. it is also an important topic, because it is about enterprises and their ability to create jobs. it would be good to finally understand for the state and the leaders and the political decision-makers in my own country, hungary, that these are not two separate topics. it is not that creating jobs means that hungarians are completely deprived of their right to work, and that they are forced to work for pennies in the assembly plant of a foreign employer. it is about putting businesses in a position to provide them with opportunities, and it should be done, even if it is late, but from above to start a real, healthy, civilization in hungary. to this end, i would draw the attention of the heads of state to paragraph 54 of the report, where they point out that more needs to be done to provide clear and comprehensive information on funding opportunities to current and potential entrepreneurs. don't waste it and give your buddies the eu money, they give it to the entrepreneurs.
my fellow members of parliament! in the parliamentary elections on april 6, citizens of hungary again won a two-thirds majority for the fidesz and christian democratic people's party alliance. it is also unique in europe for a party alliance to win a constitutional majority twice in a row. with this majority, the hungarian electorate has most decisively rejected extremism, whether left or right. they rejected the incitement of hatred that focused on the country's international reputation instead of the real problems, and they rejected the populist propaganda that put the dangerous programme of leaving the european union under its banner. hungarian citizens have given the government the authority to continue to reorganize the economy and create jobs. continue to strengthen social security and reduce the burden on families. these are the most important problems of hungarian society today, and they are at the heart of our party's program. my fellow members of parliament! fidesz-kdnp is the guarantee of stability in hungary today and the only guarantee against extremism.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission is preparing a report on the implementation of the budget. we are discussing a very important issue in this high-profile debate. as a shadow rapporteur, i should like to address mr weidenholzer's report on the report on public utilities from the point of view of consumer protection. i think it is very important that this report, despite the initial difficulties, has been very well developed and that a good compromise has been reached, which is primarily in the interest of consumers in the long term. the rapporteur identified four main themes: telecommunications, postal services, transport and energy markets, which are sufficiently embedded and integrated into the internal market. i am pleased that the final conclusion was that, although these areas are very important, there is no need for common eu-level regulation, as sectoral regulations are adequate and can fulfil the role they are needed to fulfil from the point of view of consumer protection. i also think it is important to stress that regulation at european level would have raised issues of subsidiarity and parallelism, which would not be appropriate to raise now. the only area i would like to stress is the energy market, which the commissioner has also mentioned. significant efforts have been made to improve transparency, but it must also be seen that although regulation has been introduced here, competition is not at a level that would have allowed consumer prices to fall in a free market. it is therefore important to leave the member states' competences, for example in terms of regulation or even billing, and to obtain an overview of them accordingly. as for smart metering, a thorough cost-benefit assessment is needed. i am pleased that the rules that have been established in both areas have created something that provides additional security for consumers.
in writing. - my fellow members of parliament! access to affordable and high-quality public services for consumers is essential for the well-being of union citizens and the competitiveness of the economy. the prolonged economic crisis has left more and more people struggling to pay their high utility bills. in 2010, for example, hungarians paid the highest gas price and the second highest electricity price in the eu. thanks to the exemplary measures taken by the hungarian government, the cost of recession has been reduced by 20% in recent years. i would like to highlight three other important aspects of public services. first of all, i agree that the regulation of public utilities should respect national competences, as member states have different developed markets and different social policy objectives. secondly, i would like to emphasise the economic aspect of public services. the hungarian example also shows that reducing recession costs leaves families with more money, so the measures have not only a social policy but also an economic stimulus effect. thirdly, i would like to stress consumer protection. since public services are essential to meet the daily needs of citizens, particular attention should be paid to the rights of vulnerable consumers and affordability of prices.
in writing. - electric transport has not been able to take off in europe in the absence of a properly developed infrastructure. at the same time, infrastructure development has been held back by the very few electric cars on the roads. i voted in favour of the adoption of the alternative fuels infrastructure directive, which will help promote electric transport in line with the hungarian government's jedlik ányos plan. the expansion of electric transport is also of major interest to hungary because of its reduction in oil dependence and air pollution. the expansion of the paks nuclear power plant and the increase in renewable energy sources will allow the use of domestically produced electricity in transport to increase.
in writing. - one of the key objectives of the digital agenda is to make broadband available to all citizens. the deployment of high-speed electronic communications networks is particularly important to ensure internet access in sparsely populated areas. the legislation adopted today will make it cheaper and more efficient to build broadband internet. there are still many municipalities in hungary without broadband internet access. i therefore voted in favour of using existing public service networks to build up electronic communications networks, thus ensuring broadband access for those living far from large cities.
in writing. trust in public institutions is one of the most important indicators of a democratic society. the present and future of the eu's review of freedom of information and public access to documents has been discussed on several occasions in this parliamentary term. the principle of transparency extends to the decision-making and administrative activities of the union institutions in a broader sense, which is why the establishment, adoption and application of the transparency register will be an important milestone in interinstitutional relations. as a member of the committee on petitions and a former opinion-maker on the institutional processes for public access to documents, i myself have advocated transparency. the work of the union institutions should be made more transparent and efforts to develop good administration techniques should be encouraged. as a first step, it is welcome that the bureau intends to introduce a significant number of incentive measures to encourage participation in the transparency register. however, in addition to the public, the protection of privacy rights and the enforcement of security considerations must also be adequately and proportionately addressed by union legislation.
i was enriched by a good experience today, because i heard from the left-liberal side of the house that they were terribly concerned about the rights of hungarian and other eastern and central european workers. until then, i sat here for five years in this almost empty plenary chamber and said that hungarian workers have two options: either work at home in your western european-owned assembly plants for 200 euros, or go to your countries as economic refugees and experience the deprivation of rights that the representative of the juri committee spoke about. i have just one question, my fellow left-wing mps. where have you been for the past five years? why didn't you protect the workers' rights? and where were they when decisions had to be made about this? i'll tell you where they were. they were there, and they pushed the buttons when this colonial system was created, when this disenfranchisement was created. now you're up for election, all of a sudden you're protecting the workers. dogs are not bacon... (the president takes the floor)
in writing. the tragedy of the ship carrying african refugees which sank off lampedusa last october has drawn our attention to the fact that the existing eu instruments and mechanisms are still not sufficient to ensure effective and uniform coordination between member states to prevent deaths at sea. the problem of illegal immigration is more acute in southern countries such as italy, spain, malta and cyprus, but in line with the principle of solidarity and shared responsibility enshrined in the stockholm programme, we must monitor whether each member state respects the fundamental rights of refugees equally. the eu is not empowered to regulate search and rescue operations in a general way, as described in the eu treaties. i would stress that the proposed draft regulation is not intended to allow this, but only to regulate search and rescue situations for migrants arriving by sea in maritime operations coordinated by frontex. the creation of a general obligation would thus bridge and eliminate differences in interpretation and practice between member states in relation to maritime operations. i support the development of a union-wide maritime security strategy, as the union faces a number of maritime security threats (e.g. proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, smuggling of illegal weapons and drugs, potential for terrorist attacks against critical maritime infrastructure). you have to be prepared to deal with these dangers.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen of the house of representatives, yes, more than 3 million vehicles are transferred from one member state to another each year. it could be a simple registration register, but it's not what's happening. it's a very long process, five weeks, 400 euros, and we're talking about this tonight, that it's in the public interest, and we want to address this real need, and we can't come up with a completely simple regulation or directive that is just for simplification. of course, as my colleagues have already said, there are lessons to be learned from this process and indeed from the council's approach, but it is important that some progress has been made and that this is in the interests of consumers and citizens. i think it is important, of course, that taxation issues should be discussed, although, as president harbour said, it is clear that this step could have been taken in time and that the impact assessment could have been carried out, but it is also clear that some member states are perhaps short-sighted, perhaps looking at the substance of the matter, and see taxation issues as a reason for this. i see a tax issue that could be specifically aimed at tax evasion, tax avoidance, because there would be the possibility for some people with improper registries to evade tax. there's a reference to that in the report, unfortunately, a contradiction between the location and the location of use. we need to solve it, because i think this is an opportunity. it is important that transparency has increased, or can increase transparency, the registration of stolen cars can not happen, and i also think that there will be other benefits, because the car rental companies can also reduce the fee, and thus, for example, tourists can also reduce the rental fee. the report is very substantial in its entirety and it would be important to be able to implement it as soon as possible, if not already, at least during the autumn.
in writing. when we remember the first world war and the 16 million europeans who lost their lives in the bloodshed, we say no to the 'resolution of conflicts by force', to the violent change of borders, to the rhetoric of war, to nationalist and chauvinist sentiments, to the incitement of hatred that pits peoples and groups against each other, to stigmatisation, to exclusion. we say yes to reconciliation, to settling disputes through diplomacy, to solidarity, to democracy, to respect for human rights. we say yes to european integration, which has resolved centuries of hostility, fomented by narrow political elites who want to preserve their power at all costs, into a lasting peace. we europeans take it for granted that we live in peace. strasburg is now a subject that few people remember about franco-german reconciliation. but sad events of the past and present - the balkan wars, the conflict in crimea and eastern ukraine - also remind today's generations that peace must be fought for every day. despite all the rumours to the contrary, belonging to a community of europeans is still an attractive goal that brings together former adversaries and enemies. to live in prosperity and democracy is a goal that encourages the masses, the people, to stand up to authoritarian systems and leaders and, if necessary, to fight for their rights outside of parliament. as members, we tend to underestimate the power of the european community. but we can only maintain our attractiveness if we are ourselves true to our european values.
in writing. - my fellow members of parliament! the past 100 years have shown that europe can only succeed if the nations of europe come together and imagine a common future. for us europeans, fundamental human rights have become increasingly important over the last few centuries, and i am convinced that we must not let go of the freedoms we have won in the future either. europe has had an unprecedented almost seven decades of mutual respect and peace. the eu has an undeniable role to play in ensuring that european societies can live freely today and that the situation of oppressed minorities in europe continues to improve. there are many who are desperate for this common outcome and would like to turn from openness to closure, to isolation. in 2009, i was elected to the european parliament as the candidate of a party that rejects european unity and the results it brings. today, as a hungarian, a european and a jew, i wish the peoples of europe that the european unity that the eu embodies today will continue to work for a long time, giving all people hope that there is a possibility of a world in which people can live together in peace and respect. with these thoughts, i bid farewell to my five-year term as a member of the european parliament. thank you for your attention.
in writing. as is usually the case, winners and losers remember the great war in very different ways. the territorial developer is preparing for romania's jubilee celebrations in 2018, the centenary of the "unification" of its country. hungary, which has been unjustly deprived of two-thirds of its territory, will remember the historic catastrophe created by the trianon peace dictatorship in 2020. a century later, we now see clearly that world war i, which led to another conflagration, was ultimately a loss for europe and the world as a whole, because hatred, war, bloodshed, mass death cannot serve the prosperity of any one person, any one people or country. the main lesson of the past hundred years in the relations between romania and hungary is that neither unjust wars, nor artificial redrawing of national borders, nor the unjust oppression of minorities can be a solution for our peoples. because injustice breeds injustice and leads to war. "the work of the true righteousness must become peace; and the service of the true righteousness, quietness and security to time indefinite", says the prophet isaiah (32, 17). in the spirit of the house of european history, let us work to make our continent a home of peace once and for all, and to make all its nations - including romania and hungary - not losers but winners of the union. the members of the european parliament who will be standing in may should do so.
i have three questions for officer stefan füle. the first: you said that we should fight so much for ukraine, because every people, every nation has the right to decide its own future. the crimean peninsula has decided its future. this is a decision you say is illegal. how is that possible? second question: the hungarians and rusyns living in transcarpathia also want to exercise their right to self-determination and decide on their own future, on possible autonomy or on being re-attached to hungary. what do you think? i suppose they can make that decision, right? my third question: is it not possible that in your dictionary, self-determination is only for a people or a nation if it is in your imperial interests?
dear colleagues, four members have mentioned that they have made their last speeches here and that they will be leaving parliament. i am the fifth. i am in the same position and this is my last appearance here. i thank you very much for your cooperation. as regards ukraine, i would like to say that, when in 1956 the russian army appeared in hungary and again during the intervention in prague, they did not say that they are unknown and they are not the red army. so it means that the situation now, exactly as the commissioner said, is even worse, because they are now lying as regards their military aggression in a foreign territory. (applause) i have received six motions for resolutions tabled in accordance with rule 110(2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 17 april 2014.
in writing. - i'm glad that after a long time, this very important legislative issue has finally been brought up. i supported the report, if only because i consider it crucial to harmonise eu legislation on the obligations of economic operators. i consider that, to that end, the alignment of the decision and this regulation should be carried out as strictly as possible, that is to say, the text of the provisions already introduced in the decision and incorporated into this regulation should not be altered. i believe that special attention should also be paid to vulnerable consumers in the single market. moreover, penalties and fines should be simplified and targeted in order to ensure that the cost of market surveillance activities is borne by the largest part by the unfair traders.
in writing. - the report is linked to the commission communication entitled 'education openness: innovative teaching and learning for all through new technologies and open educational resources'. quality education is of particular importance in the light of the economic crisis and the high level of youth unemployment. the integration of digital competences into european education and training systems is a very important aspect of education development, enabling more innovative teaching and learning methods and facilitating the development of digital competences needed in the labour market.
in writing. - i support the report which will help to deepen the eu-south korea relationship, particularly in terms of preventing illegal migration. south korea is one of the eu's most important strategic partners in areas such as corruption, counter-terrorism and cultural diplomacy. the framework agreement on cybersecurity will be indispensable. south korea is at the forefront of cyber development, they have the fastest internet connection in the world, and they have one of the most competitive information communication infrastructures. like the eu, they are also threatened by cybercrime and cyberterrorism. it is therefore important that the eu works closely with south korea to build a secure global digital environment.
in writing. - the commission proposal states that council decision 2009/831/ec of 10 november 2009, adopted on the basis of article 299 (2) of the ec treaty (now article 349 tfeu), authorised portugal to apply a reduced rate of excise duty until 31 december 2013 to rum and liqueur produced and consumed in the autonomous region of madeira and to liqueur and liqueur produced and consumed in the autonomous region of the azores, in view of the small size, isolation and low level of automation of agricultural holdings and in order to compensate for the additional costs of transporting raw materials and putting equipment into service in these remote and insular regions. portugal has requested the extension of the authorisation until 31 december 2020, which is justified as the development of the outermost regions in question could otherwise be jeopardised, while the internal market would not be distorted by the extension of the authorisation.
in writing. - on 4 march 2013, spain requested the commission to prepare a council decision authorising spain to grant an exemption or reduction from the aiem tax for the period 2014-2020 for certain locally produced products in the canary islands, amending the list of products and the maximum rates applicable to certain products. since the measure has the effect of stimulating the economy and competitiveness without undermining the union legal order, i consider it to be eligible.
in writing. - given that the proposal in question aims to promote the competitiveness of the french overseas departments in order to compensate for their isolation, dependence on raw materials and energy, the need to stockpile more, the small size of the local market and the low level of exports, i suggest that it be considered. however, the commission should be allowed sufficient time to carry out its analysis and to submit a comprehensive proposal.
in writing. - since about one million eu citizens are posted to another member state each year, the issue of posting of workers is of crucial importance for the development of the internal market in the field of crossborder services. strengthening labour mobility between member states is particularly important in times of crisis, as it has a positive impact on employment and thus on economic growth in the union. cooperation between member states in this area should therefore be further strengthened in order to ensure that the rights of posted workers are adequately protected. the report was prepared in the spirit of enhanced cooperation and aims at improving the implementation, application and enforcement of directive 96/71/ec on the posting of workers in the framework of services.
in writing. - the european parliament decided to postpone the adoption of its final annual accounts for 2012 at the european parliament's plenary session in brussels two weeks ago because the president of the european parliament had deleted an article from the report that was unpleasant for him, citing the house rules. the procedure used by mr schulz has given rise to a great deal of debate among the political groups in the european parliament and the committee on budgetary control, of which i am vice-chairman, has asked that the report be put to the vote in plenary, together with the item in question. i voted against the report in the strasbourg plenary vote because, together with my colleagues in the committee on budgetary control, i consider the procedure followed by the president of the european parliament in relation to this report to be unacceptable.
in writing. - the tasks and the way in which the public employment services operate have changed as a result of the economic crisis and the unemployment that has followed. the commission's initiative to concretise the existing network of representatives of public employment services, which will allow a detailed comparison of the effectiveness of the labour market measures for which the member states are responsible, is therefore welcome. this will help to identify the strengths and weaknesses of each measure and will be used in the development of member states' strategies.
in writing. - the main proposals in the commission's new legislative proposal for the solidarity fund are: clarification of the scope of the solidarity fund, adoption of clearer eligibility rules for regional disasters, possibility of advance payments, shortening of the administrative procedure for the payment of aid, measures to support prevention strategies aimed at reducing the risk of disasters. given that the need for the solidarity fund has never been questioned, but only criticised for its inflexibility and slowness, the above amendments are therefore necessary in order to increase the efficiency of the fund.
in writing. - the central issue in the amendment of the honey directive was whether pollen was a natural constituent or component of honey. according to today's decision, strict food labelling requirements for gmo content cannot be applied to honey, which is contrary to the interests of beekeepers producing hungarian gmo-free honey and health-conscious citizens. i therefore voted against the idea that the union should favour trade with third countries, disregarding the interests of its own producers and seriously infringing the freedom of choice of consumers.
in writing. - the report by gál kinga is of particular importance because it clearly confirms that budapest will be the future seat of the european union police training agency. the adoption of the report and the strasbourg decision is a joint success for gál kinga and the hungarian people's party mps and a great recognition for hungary. it is important that this report in line with the earlier adopted decision on the european police office (europol) also opposed the merger of cepol and europol and confirmed the need for the two institutions to operate independently of each other. the report thus underlined the importance of police training, but did not jeopardise the work of either institution. i voted in favour of the report in the plenary.
in writing. - the european police college is a key institution in the community's internal and judicial sphere, and it is therefore important that cepol and europol can operate independently of each other. the institution is based in the united kingdom, but has to move out by september 2014 under a previous decision of the uk government. as the only new applicant member state, hungary is in an excellent professional, financial and cultural position and the budapest application has therefore deservedly won the unanimous support of the council. i voted in favour of the european parliament confirming the council's decision and allowing cepol to continue its activities in budapest.
in writing. - cepol started its mission as an agency of the european union in 2005 with the aim of helping to build links between senior police officers in the member states and to promote cross-border cooperation in the fight against crime through training. it is no coincidence that the european council did not support the merger with europol and, by its decision last october, designated budapest as the next headquarters of cepol. hungary has submitted to the council a comprehensive and professionally balanced offer to host the agency. hungary has been a loyal partner of the transatlantic alliance in the past, which has always recognised the high-quality professional work of the hungarian law enforcement agencies. hungary will provide highly favourable conditions for the efficient and sovereign functioning of the european police college.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, fellow rapporteurs, i would like to thank you for your report. in many member states of the european union, there are currently very significant obstacles to consumers or businesses, especially smes, being able to assert their rights, the very rights they suffer when they claim compensation, precisely because of infringements of competition law. i think it's very important that we have this discussion today, because those obstacles are now over with this report. it's been nine years since this process began, and i would say it's a very long time, but good work takes time, and i'm glad that in this cycle it's still going to be worthwhile and can be accomplished. everyone had a lot of time to do the job, not like my colleague andreas schwab, who had little time, but he did the job very efficiently and very precisely and quickly, and i would like to congratulate him on his work. i am particularly pleased that this instrument now allows victims to enforce their rights effectively, while respecting the traditions of the european legal system and, moreover, while respecting traditions, but not in an overly regulated framework. it was very good to define the area, which allowed us to create a new legal basis in this area, such as the definition of collective redress, or, as the commissioner has just mentioned, the question of access to evidence, or the impact of final decisions. it is very important that this proposal also creates an excellent balance between the rights and obligations of the plaintiff and the defendant and can provide safeguards against abuse in litigation. not only is it an effective system for claims, but it is also one that is not over-regulated and that avoids excessive incentives that might make claims too frequent and unmanageable. i think it is very important to highlight the consensus settlement and i also think it is good that if a court has found the compensation paid to be adequate, then they will be able to take this into account later when setting the fine. the common characteristics of these salaries are that they are very complex and they are usually not able to start in time, so i think it is important to extend the one-year rest period. overall, eu and national competences and joint work are needed to make this a success.
i am pleased to be able to thank commissioner almunia this morning not only for this but also for the previous period, but i would like to thank my colleague, mr alojz peterle, in particular for his work. it is of the utmost importance that the european union concludes strategic partnership agreements with member states that are of crucial importance to us. i certainly think that in the last period i have been working very much on the situation of women in the partner country, and accordingly i was extremely disappointed by the economics article which analysed the situation of women in japan. so i think that if anything, the best practices of the european union should be adopted, not only by having a much larger number of women in decision-making, but also by, for example, making sure that the principle of equal pay for equal work is applied. thank you very much, and welcome to my group of visitors who are here with me. thank you again for your work.
in writing. - it is an undeniable fact that the use of new psychoactive substances poses significant social and health risks to civil society and can often lead to violent behaviour and crime. sadly, according to a 2011 eurobarometer snapshot, 5% of young people have used such mind-altering drugs. the eu must prevent these substances from being placed on the market and made available legally or illegally. the fact that most of these substances can be legally used by industry (e.g. chemical, pharmaceutical, high-tech industries) and are sold via the internet makes it difficult to act against them. member states have different ways of dealing with this dangerous phenomenon, which can result in these substances being smuggled from one country to another via the black market. i therefore support action at eu level to combat the spread of new types of psychoactive substances.
in writing. - i welcome the commission's proposal to introduce uniform criminal law provisions for new psychoactive substances, the use of which, like drugs, poses a number of risks to society. one of the most obvious means of distributing psychoactive substances is the internet. we need to fight against mind-altering substances that are being sold on the online market and produced in secret laboratories outside the eu (india or china), and are being sold under the guise of being legal. although each eu member state has the right to decide how to tackle the spread of both illicit and psychoactive drugs, national measures alone cannot be the solution for europe. i therefore consider it necessary, in addition to strengthening the effectiveness of law enforcement cooperation between member states, to introduce minimum uniform criminal law rules where there is no longer a geographical barrier to the trade in psychoactive substances.
i was one of the few who voted against the reports on russia and ukraine. and like mr posselt, i have a historical parallel, and it is this: in the shameful peace dictates that ended the first world war, the great western powers made decisions that resulted in 3 million hungarians living outside hungary's borders, in oppressed conditions, deprived of rights. we are in this terrible european union, and we are not getting any help to end this deprivation of rights. so i have to say that i am extremely sorry that my own state, hungary, does not follow the russian example and does not rush to give the disenfranchised hungarian people living in the separated territories... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, the recent cases of persecution on the grounds of blasphemy for belonging to a religious minority are highly disturbing. despite the measures taken by the pakistani government in 2008, the day-to-day situation of religious minorities remains extremely precarious. the cases mentioned in the resolution demonstrate serious breaches of freedom of thought, conscience and religion. moreover, the situation of women and girls facing forced marriage and honour killing is unacceptable. i therefore strongly agree with the content of this resolution. the pakistani government needs to seriously increase its efforts through two main challenges: firstly a change in the legislation backed by a strong political will to ensure not only prevention of crimes directed at religious minorities but also prosecution of the perpetrators of those crimes. secondly, and especially when it comes to the situation of women, significant improvements need to be made in the field of education, starting with religious schools. otherwise whole generations of women and girls are going to be sacrificed.
mr. chairman, members of the house of representatives, i am very saddened by the way the european union is handling the situation in syria, because the european union is not true to itself at this time. we all know that the european union was not created to represent the member states only, but to protect fundamental human rights, and i know that the situation in ukraine is very serious, but please, in syria there are tens of thousands of dead. for the past six months, there's been a constant, perpetual conflict. hezbollah, as a terrorist organization, is deploying its forces freely every day, destabilizing the peace in the middle east, threatening the security of minorities, ethnic minorities and religious minorities. i ask that the european union step up a little. well, this is an alliance that should be much more forceful in defending basic human rights. i will no longer be a member of the european parliament for the next five years, but i ask you to take a much more decisive action for peace and for fundamental human rights.
mr president, the systematic violation of human rights in north korea is not news. although it is hard to find a country more closed than north korea, we have already heard numerous testimonies of the atrocities led by the kim[nbsp ]jong regime. the results of the investigation led by the un commission of inquiry is, however, a new and important step towards the international recognition of the widespread crime against humanity that is taking place in north korea. it is crucial because we will no longer be able to say that we did not know. now the question is, what can the eu do against a regime that continues to demonstrate its absolute disregard for the human rights and dignity of its own people? i believe that this resolution contains some important proposals, such as the implementation of the un commission of inquiry’s recommendations on the agenda of the human rights dialogue with third countries, and especially russia and china. moreover, supporting the un high commissioner for human rights and maintaining humanitarian aid programmes and channels is paramount. the european union has to be tough and consistent on this issue and has to speak with one voice. vice-president, i wish to thank you very much for the great job you have done.
yesterday, one of the candidates for vice-president of the european parliament pointed out that the european parliament is the voice of the people, not the voice of governments. the heads of government, when they nominated jean-claude juncker, they made it clear that they were not interested in the voice of the people. let's not even talk about the ridiculous claim that he was voted directly into office by the majority of the people's party. but we know who mr juncker is. he is a politician whose whole activity is directed towards one goal, the creation of a federal state, the 'united states of europe'. the people of europe have repeatedly refused, in referendums, to live in a europe where 500 million people want to be able to control their daily lives from a central location. current polls support this rejection. so the next time we vote on his person, we have to decide whether to give voice to the governments or to meet the expectations of the european population and reject this nomination.
mr prime minister! first of all, i would like to congratulate you and the bureau on your work. i think that the focus of their work on economic growth, competitiveness, job creation was rightly placed as the most important task that we have to face in the european union. i see you've made progress in this multi-faceted field. after four months of legislative work, i think you can take pride in the results. i would like to stress in particular one of our most important tasks, namely to improve the situation of youth unemployment, of unemployment in general. that is why i consider the negotiations initiated under the youth guarantee programme to be important. i would also like to highlight the achievements in the area of banking union, which i think are also remarkable. there are still open areas where we have not made the same progress. for example, there are still some open questions in the area of the internal market, but overall i think that your work has been adequate and i congratulate you.
mr. prime minister, one of the priorities of the italian presidency is growth. i'd like to ask you, what exactly did you mean by growth? let me give you an example of why that term is not clear. in my country, hungary, most of the economic players are foreign or multinational companies. their profit growth is growth in a traditional sense, but we hungarians are not happy about it, because the profit is being taken out of the country. that's one of the problems. the other is that the majority of the hungarian people are not the beneficiaries of their profit growth, but the victims, because it is necessary for their profit growth, i say in quotation marks that it is necessary, the greatest possible exploitation of hungarian workers, the destruction of hungarian small farmers and small entrepreneurs in the largest possible number. so how can growth be measured fairly? thank you very much.
if you don't mind, i speak hungarian. i would like to propose a specific project to prime minister renzi. because there are about 25 million citizens in europe who are so small, 25 million children who don't have enough to eat. malnutrition among children under 18 is a shame that europe has not, or very little, talked about, and does not like to talk about. these 25 million children that we have to deal with, they're not thinking with us. they don't care who is in europe or who isn't, whether there is growth or not, or even how much nonsense one or another of the representatives might say. prime minister! what i suggest to you is to try to help us and to take on a joint european project called no tax on food. nulla imposta su cibo. (nothing is imposed on food.)
in writing. – the message from voters to the italian presidency is clear: over the coming years, the shared priority has to be to create growth to reduce unemployment. in the previous legislature we drew the lessons of the crisis; this year, the italian presidency needs to get employment and social cohesion again. there are a number of major challenges that we need to face together: climate change, security in europe, the situation in our neighbouring countries, immigration. in addition, we need a europe that makes life easier for individuals and businesses. therefore, we need now a presidency which is able to focus on a limited number of strategic priorities: to strengthen our industrial competitiveness, move towards energy independence and build a digital content. i hope that the european parliament and the european council can work together to bring to a successful conclusion a number of the initiatives that the commission has launched but that remain to be adopted by the co-legislators.
first of all, i would like to thank the hungarian voters for supporting the fidesz-kdnp list in such a large proportion that we can be present in all the special committees and even hold important positions in the next cycle - as vice-presidents, coordinators. secondly, i would like to draw your attention to a policy issue, and in particular the commission's attention to the importance of energy prices. as you know, in my country, there have been several recession cost reductions in recent years. i would like to draw the commission's attention to the need to review this possibility in terms of energy prices. before you tell me that's not possible, i want to tell you that it is possible. as regards roaming charges, since 2007 in view of the fact that competition was not fully realised we have intervened in the pricing process, which has resulted in a reduction in roaming charges. i think we could extend that to energy prices.
my fellow members of parliament! during the past week, meps from the democratic coalition addressed a written question to the commission about the new advertising tax introduced in hungary, which is extremely restrictive of press freedom. the only unspoken but admitted purpose of this tax is to try to make rtl klub, the largest independent commercial television station in hungary, which is not yet under government control, impossible to operate. over the past four years, the hungarian government, abusing its two-thirds parliamentary majority, has built a pro-government media empire of a scale unseen anywhere in the european union, while imposing all sorts of punitive measures on the remnants of the still independent media. therefore, we can say that, unfortunately, as a result of all these measures, it is no longer possible to speak of an independent press in the european sense, of press freedom in hungary. for all these reasons, i have asked the european commission, and i ask it again, to launch an investigation into the advertising tax in hungary, to stop it from taking its place in the european union and to take effective measures to restore freedom of the press in hungary.
officer, please. my fellow members of the house of representatives! as this is my first address to the european parliament, let me welcome you and wish you all success and good luck in your future work. (the member continues in english. )
mr. president, i have to ask you... members of the house! since this is my first speech, allow me to introduce myself. i live in ukraine, transcarpathia, and i won a mandate on the fidesz-kdnp list. i am therefore the only member of the european parliament who is also a ukrainian national. i am therefore pleased that the situation in ukraine is at such high priority on the european parliament's agenda and that the eu supports ukrainian independence. as a transcarpathian hungarian, i consider it my duty to support the establishment of peace, stability and democratization in ukraine's internal and external policies, the preservation of its sovereignty, the promotion of its euro-atlantic integration and visa-free travel for ukrainian citizens to the eu. and all the efforts that would help ukraine to get out of the crisis would create peace, because this is the main interest of the entire population of the country and transcarpathian hungarians. i also consider it important to promote the rights of national minorities and to promote the respect for human and minority rights and minority languages, which should be given priority and regulated at european level. (the intervener agrees to answer a question referred for a preliminary ruling (article 162 (8) of the rules of procedure). )
that's a two-card answer. i do not think that the two should be treated together. so the hungarian government's position, and the fidesz government's position, is clearly in favor of ukraine's sovereignty and support. the other issue, which is an economic issue, is a completely different matter.
this is the free trade agreement between the european union and the united states, it's a beautifully packaged but very harmful commodity. the nice packaging means that there is a need for job creation, whereas there is absolutely no evidence that a free trade agreement like this would create a mass of jobs. in fact, there are examples to the contrary. the real goal is to advance the interests of global corporations over national governments. american corporations can sue national governments in private courts of their choice if their decisions harm their profit interests. the further liberalisation of food trade, the risk of the introduction of genetically modified products, is particularly dangerous. this partnership agreement infringes the sovereignty of the member states and even of the union, and is not in the interests of the european population, and therefore it should not be concluded.
i'm not one of those who are against something that they don't know, but i'm not one of those who are for it. i'm going to talk about the basic conditions for a possible future grant. the goal of the transatlantic free trade negotiations is to increase competitiveness so that more jobs are created. small businesses should also benefit from this contract. to be able to compete with their american counterparts, european companies need to reduce energy prices. there's no way that's going to work with current energy prices. if the market cannot do this on its own, then, as in the case of the hungarian rescission, the regulatory authorities, the state and the union must also intervene. we did that with the roaming charges. the conclusion of the convention must not jeopardise human health, the environment or the interests of consumers. poultry washed with chlorine or gmo is not. it is also essential for support to be provided to member states, the european parliament and all those involved. not only transatlantic, but transparent from start to finish. because what we don't know enough about, we can't responsibly support or oppose.
i'll close this discussion. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
the following point statements by the council and the commission repeal of the maternity leave directive (2014/2715 ((rsp))
mr president, i would ask, we will be holding another vote very soon on the new college of commissioners; are we going to vote en bloc on that? the decision of the conference of presidents is just following the rules, namely that we have now to vote on four commissioners together. does that mean you are going to ask for separate votes there as well, or what is your view in this case? i am not sure that we have to re-write previous decisions all the time just because some colleagues change their minds. in the committees, however, there was an opportunity and my message to these colleagues is as follows. you used this opportunity in the committee on economic and monetary affairs to vote against. you lost. if you want to lose again here then it is up to you. we are not supporting this separation.
i'm not going to let you do this. i'm going to ask you to check the house for order. according to the rules, a blue card means you can ask questions of one of your fellow mps. you're not used to this, you don't have time to comment, so i'm afraid i can't give you this. you need a hearing to be able to express your opinion in this house. the following comments were made by mr zdechovský. similar or indeed a blue card? you got a blue card?
(the president asked mr urtason to answer the question on the blue card from mr zdechovský. since mr. urtason was not wearing a wire, he asked for the question to be repeated, and the chairman asked them to contact each other directly to discuss the matter. )
it's a two-card draw. i would like to ask mr fernandes - although i agree with him that there is little money available or spent so far on the european youth guarantee - but when we say that more money is needed, specifically for this purpose, how much would he personally spend?
my fellow citizens! if we look at the beginning of the draft joint resolution we have tabled, we can see that this issue has been discussed many times in the european parliament. the speakers before me have given many numbers, tragic numbers, but i think it's also important to look at whether in those countries where this issue has been addressed before, it has had results. let's look at my country, hungary. a year ago, in march 2013, youth unemployment was 27.7 percent, and now it's 20 percent. if you look at the other countries, 13 countries, at different rates, but youth unemployment is going down. i think that we must continue to work, that we must make efforts, both from the commission and from the member states. and not just with these special projects, but with broader approaches. i am convinced that by increasing competitiveness, including quality training, we will improve the quality of training of young people through these measures. in closing, i would like to point out that we must not make the same mistake again. in the next ten years, in fact, if we don't address this issue in depth, we're going to re-create the problem. and in the next period of time, 30 million unskilled young people will enter the world of work. so we have to prevent that.
for my part, and i think many of us shared this, i was extremely pleased that this social democratic-rooted... (message from the president) i will then tell the members who have come that in the last few hours many of us here have been very pleased to see that this social democratic-rooted youth guarantee programme has been taken over by the european commission and the eu institutions and has begun to be implemented. we have repeatedly stressed the need to increase this amount. the age limit should be raised to 30 years and, of course, the importance of controls should be underlined, particularly for the control of expenditure by the member states, especially if we are to expect increased amounts in the future. we want to avoid the attempt by individual governments to cover up their own failings by means of numerical mysticism, as my hungarian colleague has just done. and i'd like to say one little thing, maybe not so little. the little money that a young person receives would be worth more if vat on food were abolished throughout europe.
, in writing. the economic, financial and social crisis has had a very negative impact on employment, especially for young people. in the eu-28, unemployment was 10.4% in april 2014, 22.5% for young people and in some member states it was over 50%. 7.5 million europeans under 25 are not in employment, education or training. the union's 'youth guarantee' initiative contributes to the three objectives of the europe 2020 strategy: to raise the employment rate of 20 to 64-year-olds to above 75%, to reduce the rate of early school leaving to below 10% and to lift at least 20 million people out of poverty and social exclusion by 2020. however, eu initiatives are not enough, active involvement of member states is essential to reduce unemployment. according to eurostat, the most significant decrease in youth unemployment over the past two years has been in hungary. thanks to the action plan for job protection launched by the orbán government in 2012, the level of employer burden decreased by 14.5% for every salary of an employee under 25 years of age, and by 27% for two years for those starting their career (up to huf 100 thousand). this measure has helped some 200 000 young people. promoting employment and reducing unemployment remains one of the key objectives of the orbán government.
, in writing. european results so far are modest there are very few countries where youth unemployment is not rising but falling. it is clear that there is a great deal of confusion in europe today on this issue, and the reason for this is that everyone knows that the easiest way to fight unemployment is to reduce taxes or social security contributions, so that businesses can more easily put people to work. but since the governments are in debt, they can't use this tool, so they have to dance on the edge, trying to find ways to get results without tax cuts. but real recovery can only come from tax cuts and the economic growth that follows. unemployment among those under 25 is on average close to 24% in the eu countries. the negative record is held by spain and greece, where 56 and 61.5 percent of those aged 18 to 24 are looking for work, respectively. in hungary, the unemployment rate among young people is around 27 percent. the european union has recently decided to take a number of targeted measures to support the almost 6 million young unemployed in europe, including the implementation of the so-called youth guarantee. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the programme to include the following areas: the environment, the environment policy, the environment and the environment policy.
, in writing. in the eu today, more than 5.5 million young people under 25 are unemployed, while in hungary one in three young people cannot find a job. the european council has set aside a total of €6 billion over the next seven years to tackle youth unemployment. i therefore urge the european commission to consider the ilo recommendation that €21 billion per year is needed to effectively reduce youth unemployment. the introduction of the youth guarantee in hungary is of particular importance. due to the continuous austerity, the economic policy that chases away investments, the institutional link in higher education, young people have lost hope that the current hungarian government can change their hopeless situation. the situation of hungarian youth is further aggravated by the fact that the biggest reduction in resources in higher education was experienced in hungary, along with greece. in hungary, the education policy of the orbán government has cut the amount of money available for higher education by 47% compared to the 2006 level, drastically reducing the number of state-funded student places. the european youth guarantee programme offers hope to hungarian youths who have lost their faith. i therefore ask the european commission representative here, mr andor lászló, to do everything possible to ensure that the youth guarantee is implemented in the member states and that adequate resources are provided. you can count on the dk meps for this work!
in writing. currently, there are 5.4 million young people out of work in the european union, and high youth unemployment is reducing the union's social cohesion and economic competitiveness. in hungary, the youth unemployment rate is over 27 percent. even more distressing is the fact that in the past few years, the number of economic migrants has increased tenfold, with 600,000 people, mostly young people, leaving the country to seek a better life abroad. as a member of the european parliament and a social democrat politician, i feel it is my duty to create institutional protection for the interests of this community and to find all the means to help and support those who need it to return home and to live at home, to start their hopeful business. the youth guarantee and microfinance programmes provide a substantial leverage for this, but the long-term outcome requires much broader strategic solutions that protect the principle of free movement of labour but actively support repatriation. it is positive that jean-claude juncker, the newly elected president of the european commission, will use public-private partnerships to boost economic growth, particularly by putting young people into jobs, by €300 billion over the next three years. but i also suggest that we find the platforms and resources that can be targeted to support economic migrants. to guarantee that we can provide them with opportunities in their own country, regardless of what national governments are doing.
- lithuania has fulfilled all the conditions necessary to adopt the euro at the beginning of next year. the single european currency is an important tool for economic development. it is no coincidence that the next president of the commission also referred to the euro as an important instrument for protecting europe. the introduction of a single currency is therefore in the common interest of all the member states and thus of the union and its citizens. i therefore support its introduction in all member states that meet the conditions. lithuania was forced to backtrack on this issue once, in 2006, due to high inflation. but now it can introduce the euro in a more prepared way and in a way that is even more in the interests of its citizens. in order to avoid any misunderstanding, i would like to stress once again that i encourage hungary to meet these conditions as soon as possible, and that the hungarian government will have to pay special and much more emphatic attention than before to ensuring that the introduction process serves the interests of citizens and small and medium-sized enterprises alike and to the greatest possible extent.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, it is certainly not easy to formulate a statement on the tragic situation in gaza that is simultaneously meaningful and helpful to the victims and vulnerable populations, and might also, hopefully, have an impact on the entire crisis. as a first-time member, and like many of my fellow members i presume, i came here with a certain level of idealism in the sense of believing that benevolent intentions and political wisdom may be able to produce such statements or resolutions and that action may result from them. i am afraid the joint resolution is not such a text, and i regret to say that i was present at the negotiations yesterday. i may be a bit of an idealist but at the same time i am not naive. i know that in cases of escalating violence you had better tread very lightly in order not to exacerbate the situation. that is true. but, in this case, walking on tiptoes resulted in an empty resolution text: that is the considered view of my group and it is also my view. i do not call into question the motives of the major parties in trying to write a brief text focusing on de-escalation, and trying to strike a balance and to make the possibilities of de-escalation at least meaningful, but the excessive pruning eliminated almost all content. we regret to say that we cannot vote for an empty shell of a resolution. first of all, the text fails to mention almost anything related to the eu. whenever the eu appears in this text, it appears tangentially. if we agree that the eu should play an influential role in the region and all its adjacent regions, then this text gets dangerously close to an abdication of responsibility. we tried to rectify that with an amendment that we tabled to paragraph 6. secondly, the text fails to mention a number of facts that my colleague has already listed. these facts are inconvenient, i know, but i am sure i speak for my group, as well as myself, when i say i consider myself a friend of israel and also a friend of palestine, and it is a duty of friends to call attention to inconvenient facts.
madam president, please. thank you for the word. the european parliament considers it its task to take part in the settlement of conflicts in war. that's right. we call for a ceasefire between the opposing sides. that's right. but to accept a so-called balanced position on the basis of fundamentally different responsibilities on both sides is simply hypocritical. the un secretary-general says: 'i feel a responsibility for the palestinians who have been deprived of their freedom and dignity for so long' (recorded at the request of the president due to a technical problem. ) the european parliament considers it its duty to take part in the settlement of conflicts in war. that's right. call a ceasefire on the opposing sides. that's right. but if the responsibilities of the two sides are fundamentally different, then to adopt a so-called balanced position, which is what the majority wants, is simply hypocritical. the un secretary-general has said that he feels a responsibility to the palestinians, who have long been deprived of the freedom and dignity they deserve. we must make clear israel's responsibility and, if necessary, use sanctions to ensure that there is finally an independent, sovereign palestinian state. in that case, there will be peace, otherwise we can only achieve more and more ceasefires.
in writing. youth unemployment has reached 22% in the european union, and in some countries it is already close to 50%. there is a greater need for direct eu support and instruments such as the european youth guarantee could be appropriate tools in this regard. the hungarian example can serve as a model for europe to address unemployment, as youth unemployment in hungary has decreased thanks to the action plan for job protection launched in 2012 and the start programme. i voted in favour of developing the dual vocational education system, transforming the higher education system towards real objects, creating a new environment favourable to smes and supporting extensive vocational experience and training.
thank you very much for the very detailed and comprehensive answer from the commissioner. the group leaders will now speak. i would like to start by calling on mr deß of the european people's party. here you go, congressman, you've got two minutes.
it's a two-card draw. i would like to ask the honourable member: he said that he considered economic sanctions to be the best way to improve the situation, to ensure the security of ukraine. i'd like to ask you how you see the results of the economic sanctions that have been applied so far. do you think these sanctions helped the solution? have they brought us closer to resolving the situation in ukraine, to security? or maybe, on the contrary, they've made the situation worse. i'm asking you to answer that based on your experience with sanctions.
i wanted to ask my lithuanian colleague how he knew for sure what happened to that particular plane. how do you know that he was shot by the russians? the fact is that the european union has imposed these certain reckless sanctions. and of course, there were counter-sanctions, and the consequences of these counter-sanctions are not on the politicians, but on the farmers. i can say the following about hungary: hungary and several other member states have already lost their russian markets once, and we have had great difficulty in rebuilding them to some extent. now we've lost again because of the reckless sanctions. that's one of our problems. the other, and i would like to ask mr cioloş, the european union's commissioner for agriculture, about it. what is the guarantee that the agricultural surpluses in the other 27 member states, and in particular in the politically powerful, first-class, central countries, will not be used to feed the surpluses in raw materials and processed foodstuffs into the markets of the peripheral countries? and that puts our farmers in a double bind. how do they want to protect the peripheral countries from having the agricultural products and crops accumulated by the central countries as a result of sanctions landed in their countries, putting farmers in an even more difficult position? and i ask that my hungarian compatriots eat hungarian food and show solidarity with the farmers in difficulty.
we are talking about a question at the moment, and we have only seen the beginning of it, and we don't know what the medium or long-term outcome of this is. what we do know - and this is perhaps the lesson we can learn - is that the russian market is indeed uncertain in the long term. european sanctions were not something that hurt ordinary people. russian oligarchs, russian financial and military industrial groups were targeted. i think that was a smart move. at the same time, the embargo imposed by putin is hurting not only european agricultural producers, but also the russian people. therefore, we can safely add to the political conclusions that vladimir putin committed an immeasurable crime in this case. however, the impact of this embargo on individual european producers varies. perhaps best for polish sub-producers, but as for scottish, yes scottish farmers. at the same time, food is not for destruction, it is not for cleaning, and it is not even for storing at high cost. it's for eating! europe's response to this russian embargo must be to eat our own food. there's a lot of hungry people here, too. my colleague mr tarabella and others have made it clear that young people, children, the elderly, the socially disadvantaged can eat this surplus food very, very quickly. the value of the internal market of 500 million should not be underestimated. this is a problem worth 10 euros per head of european citizens. don't tell me that we can't give our children more food for ten euros. but if this is such a difficult idea to conceive, then i say, in the worst case, let's take it to the starving ukrainians, there are so many of them in eastern ukraine!
in writing. i appreciate the efforts of the european commission to compensate farmers who have suffered damage. however, this is not sufficient in the present case. the funds released so far are already oversubscribed and therefore the disbursement of funds has been suspended. additional union resources need to be mobilised. all available union resources should be used to compensate producers. i support the efforts of parliament's committee on agriculture to reallocate money from the eu budget reserve for this year and next year to help european farmers, in addition to agricultural money. the biggest beneficiaries of the russian sanctions, imposed for purely foreign policy reasons, are our farmers. the eu has a duty to show solidarity with them. therefore, in addition to agricultural resources, union resources must be found to compensate producers. however, the resources of the agricultural crisis fund shall be used only as a last resort, after all other options have been exhausted. direct payments may not be reduced. in order to help producers, during the negotiations on the 2015 eu budget, my colleague tamás deutsch and i initiated a significant increase in the budget for the school fruit scheme. this could be a good tool to sell some of the surplus crops due to the russian sanctions on fruit producers.
it's a two-card draw. i would like to ask my colleague whether she agrees with the fact that, in relation to russia, parliament has just declared that russia has committed aggression against another country and that the european union should therefore impose sanctions on it. so do you agree that it is very difficult to talk because here more people are using the meeting hall as a coffee house again and they are talking loudly, but i try to ask them, overly exaggerating, whether we can apply double standards or we should say that the aggression against gaza is... (the president cut the speaker off)
in writing. this is not the first time we have discussed bolivia as a state that does not respect its international commitments and is quite liberal in shaping its domestic laws. it is therefore important that the commission consistently takes into account the latest legislation allowing child labour from the age of 10-12 years, as this is clearly contrary to international expectations. the union shall not contribute to this either indirectly or through its programmes. this leads back to the violation of international obligations that require a fair trial, which bolivia continues to violate, as in the case of eldike tóás, who has now been imprisoned for five and a half years in this latin american country without a final verdict. i would like to reiterate the call in the relevant resolution of the european parliament for bolivia to respect the most basic human rights, whether it be children or illegally detained citizens such as the mayor of toasó.
the hungarians in romania are unanimous in their support for the territorial autonomy of transylvania. the romanian parties and the romanian government itself are strongly opposed to any form of minority self-determination and, in line with the anti-hungarian press propaganda of the majority media, are pursuing a hostile campaign against the autonomy aspirations of the half-million-szekler-hungarian community. the romanian intelligence service is inciting against hungarian autonomy, like the old communist political police. the supreme judicial council, in a gross violation of the principle of the independence of the branches of power, brands the legitimate hungarian aspirations as an unconstitutional attack. i ask the european parliament, mr president, to protect the hungarians of transylvania from unfounded, chauvinistic attacks and to support our legitimate and democratic aspirations for autonomy.
this afternoon, in a short debate, the question was raised of whether hungary should be dealt with in the plenary. one of my colleagues, a fellow congressman, said there was no new development. i want to tell you that i am. for example, the hungarian prime minister recently called ngos agents of foreign powers. he's harassing hungarian ngos with the tax authorities and the police. i think it's even more important to emphasize that this is not just a hungarian issue, it's a european issue! for the first time, the prime minister of an eu country is trying to consolidate his political power against the values, principles and ideals of the european community. i think it is our fundamental duty as members of the european parliament to raise our voice on this issue, to speak up and say: this is a european issue, we must defend european politics, the european community!
the european union has been unilaterally handling the ukrainian-russian conflict from the beginning. snow white is the new ukrainian leadership, which has enjoyed the support of the united states and its intelligence services, and black is the self-determinationists and russia need a more nuanced approach. it should be noted that the future of ukraine is a matter of national security for russia. there was a speech here yesterday that said we need to bring russia to its knees, like ronald reagan's star wars program. it must be recognised that the european union has no interest in restoring a unipolar world order. ukraine needs to ensure the self-determination of ethnic groups including regional self-determination even in the form of a confederation. russia is our key economic partner, and the embargo is not working. a balanced, measured relationship is the only way to bring about peace.
in writing. – the ukrainian conflict has been the most severe security crisis in europe in decades, entailing regional and even global impacts. to end the conflict in eastern ukraine and stabilise the ukrainian economy is, without doubt, of the utmost importance. as every sovereign country is free to decide about its future, russia does not have the right to put ukraine under pressure. hence the international community needs to react determinedly to contribute to a political and diplomatic solution. we must help ukraine both financially and politically to master these huge challenges so that it can remain a unified and independent country. it is urgently required that member states act unanimously as one european union and thus develop a true common foreign, security and defence policy, including a common energy policy, which takes account of the regional and global challenges of the 21st century.
on behalf of the s&d group. hungary is a neighboring country to ukraine, and we see and feel very closely many aspects of this whole conflict. nevertheless, as a hungarian person and as a hungarian politician, i would like to congratulate the european institutions, including the european parliament, for finally choosing the path of action instead of inaction, as in many other similar cases. but let's not forget that the root of this current process, the deepest reason why we are where we are, is ultimately nationalism. unfortunately, there are also a lot of nationalist efforts in europe. we must not only be friends with ukraine, but also confront nationalist aspirations within the european union.
in writing. the current events in ukraine's foreign and domestic policy deserve special attention from europe, as ukrainian citizens have paid a high price for their european orientation. the creation of peace, stability and security for the people of ukraine is a priority at the moment and all assistance must be given to ukraine to achieve this, which is why ratification of the association treaty is important. this is also essential for the country's internal political life to really start the processes of democratization, the creation of the rule of law and equal conditions for the national minorities living in ukraine. i hope that they will already create constituencies for the nationalities living in a block for the next parliamentary elections and allow their representatives to get a mandate, which the central electoral commission (cec) has not done illegally in the case of an early election scheduled for the end of september. this is important to emphasise, because when we contribute to the association agreement between ukraine and the eu, a rule-of-law ukraine that respects the rights of minorities can be a true partner of the european union.
in writing. we hear voices from member governments that sanctions against russia are not effective. the hungarian prime minister is saying we're shooting ourselves in the foot. the european parliament has two problems with this statement and must reject it outright. the first problem is that the claim is not true. the moscow stock market is plunging, the ruble has fallen to historic lows against both the euro and the dollar, $51 billion of capital has fled the country. all of this proves that these are real, strong, effective sanctions. on the other hand, it is true that the sanctions also cause damage to european economies, but they are much smaller than what russia suffers. russia needs us europeans more than the other way around. international law, the protection of the ukrainian people who are victims of territorial aggression and respect for european fundamental values are more important than the temporary problems caused by sanctions. moreover, it is important that the eu cannot credibly criticise a non-eu state until it has resolved its fundamental rights problems within its own borders. unfortunately, the hungarian example has shown that there can be a backsliding in the rule of law and democratic rights after accession to the eu. the eu is unfortunately currently without the means to act in the interests of fundamental democratic rights. a community solution must be found as soon as possible. it's the only way to pursue a credible foreign policy towards russia.
as a hungarian, of course, i did not vote because i could not vote with a good heart for an association agreement between the european union and a country called ukraine, a country that is steadily and increasingly trampling on the human rights of nearly 200,000 hungarians. the hungarians living in transcarpathia are afraid, the hungarians living in transcarpathia are fleeing. this association agreement states that the parties shall respect human rights, respect the rights of indigenous national communities. ukraine is doing less and less of that. i'm not used to party politics here, but my heart was broken when my fellow fidesz mps stood up and applauded this shameful association agreement. and it was also constricted when the elected representative of transcarpathian hungarians did not speak in this debate.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the ratification of the association agreement; in my view it is a success for both ukraine and the european union. today’s vote on the ratification, simultaneously in two european cities, kiev and strasbourg, voted by two democratically-elected parliaments – the verkhovna rada of ukraine and the european parliament, the highest democratically-elected legislative body of the european union – is a strong symbolic message to ukrainian society and proof of the sharing of common european values and a european destiny. this gesture is even more necessary today in the face of the increasing russian pressure, invasion and warfare directed against ukraine.
in writing. – i supported the resolution as i strongly believe that today’s ratification is a milestone in eu-ukraine relations, an important and symbolic step showing the commitment of both sides to a successful implementation. russia aims to undermine and eventually stop this agreement coming into force. any delay in the provisional implementation of the eu-ukraine dcfta could put a fully-fledged eu-ukraine association agreement at risk. the coming months should be used by the ukrainian authorities to tackle the necessary modernisation and transformation reforms with a view to advancing the aa agenda. this should be done in parallel with efforts made to sustain the territorial integrity and unity of ukraine.
i'll close this discussion. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
the following point is inserted after point (a) of article 2 (1) of directive 2009/72/ec:
the european youth initiative is aimed primarily at supporting young people under 25 who are not in employment, education or training in regions where the youth unemployment rate exceeded 25% in 2012. on the basis of this criterion, regions in 20 member states (including hungary) are eligible for support under the youth employment initiative. the aim is well aligned with the employment objective of the eu's europe 2020 strategy, which aims to achieve a 75% employment level for people aged 20-64 by 2020. this is a very important issue, since youth unemployment is twice as high as that of adults and their chances of entering the labour market are much lower. even if they do find work, they often find it only temporarily. the lack of harmony between qualifications and labour market needs is a major problem, contributing to the more than two million unfilled jobs in the union today. in the light of the above, i consider the european youth initiative and its successful implementation to be of the utmost importance.
in writing. dear colleagues! the european commission rightly places a high priority on the youth initiative, which has been discussed and promoted by the european parliament on many occasions. as rapporteur, i had the good fortune to deal with the issue of the youth initiative in the committee on employment and social affairs, and in view of the expectations there, i must say that something has finally moved. however, this is not enough, we must continue to work together, and the commission and the member states must make efforts. i can repeat what i said in july: i am convinced that by increasing competitiveness - including quality training, quality training for young people - we will be able to make real improvements in these measures. i'm warning you all again, this is a last minute situation. because in the next 10 years, practically, if we don't address this issue in depth, we're going to re-create the problem, and by the time that happens, 30 million unskilled young people will be back in the labor market. so we have to prevent that.
in writing. europe is ashamed that in recent times neither the majority of member states nor the union as a whole has been able to reduce youth unemployment effectively. the social democratic youth guarantee scheme is a good initiative, but it can only be effective if we increase the resources allocated and raise the age limit to 30 years. in several member states, the use of resources has not even started. but the problem is there, and the steps can't wait. two months ago, i also drew attention to the need to monitor the use of resources in the member states at eu level. only in this way can it be guaranteed that resources are used for the right purposes and efficiently everywhere. the question now is whether the commission has taken any steps to implement the eu's vigorous control and how does it intend to encourage the development of appropriate national programmes and thus accelerate the use of resources?
in writing. with the entry into office of the juncker commission, a new era and a new timetable will begin in the political governance of the european parliament, the european community. first of all, i would like to thank mr andor lászló, the eu commissioner for employment, for his dedicated work over the past years, with a number of important initiatives and achievements to his credit. but there was still much work to be done. last year, 26.6 million people were unemployed in europe, and young people were hit hardest by the economic crisis: in 2013, the number of unemployed under 25 in the european union reached almost six million. the youth employment initiative, including the youth guarantee programme, is an important anchor, but it is far from sufficient. pressing economic pressures have led hundreds of thousands to leave their homelands - mainly in eastern and central europe - to find a better life in more developed member states. there are hundreds of thousands of people who are not migrating for the sake of 'adventure', for the purpose of learning or to take advantage of the benefits of european labour mobility, but simply out of a painful need to make a living. the european union must respond and help the hundreds of thousands of people who would return from economic emigration if they could. as a hungarian representative, that's why i started the hungarian home waiting program, providing targeted help and searching for social refugees in my own country. i will initiate, if necessary, week by week, a comprehensive eu programme to support young people who wish to return to their homeland to build a new existence there. europe cannot allow its citizens to be forced to migrate!
in writing. - the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade. the commission proposal provides for the mobilisation of eur 330 000 from the fund for technical assistance to the commission. the technical assistance shall be aimed at financing monitoring, information and the establishment of a knowledge platform, as well as advice to member states on the use, monitoring and evaluation of the egf. article 11 (1) of the egf regulation provides that, on the initiative of the commission, 0,5% of the annual ceiling of the egf may be used for technical assistance each year. i supported the report in the plenary vote.
in writing. - the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade. greece requested assistance from the globalisation adjustment fund because nutriart s.a., a company located in the regions of central macedonia and attica, had laid off around 500 workers. the commission considers that the measures described above constitute active labour market measures falling within the scope of the eligible activities under article 7 of the egf regulation. personalised services for redundant workers, self-employed persons who are leaving their activity and neets are the following measures which together form a coordinated package of personalised services: career guidance, training, retraining and vocational training, advice on becoming an entrepreneur, assistance in setting up a business, financial assistance for job search and mobility support. i supported the report in the plenary vote.
in writing. - the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade. romania has requested assistance from the globalisation adjustment fund following the dismissal of 1513 workers by sc mechel câmpia turzii sa, a company producing finished and semi-finished steel products, in the municipality of aranyosgyeres, kolozs county. the commission has concluded that the application complies with the requirements for mobilising the egf, as laid down in article 2 (a) of regulation (ec) no 1927/2006. the community budget will help implement measures to help about 1000 redundant workers re-enter the labour market. i supported the report in the plenary vote.
in writing. - the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade. spain has requested assistance from the globalisation adjustment fund because a very high number of workers have been made redundant during the economic crisis and the commission is supporting measures to assist the reintegration of these workers into the labour market through the fund. the commission considers that the measures described above constitute active labour market measures falling within the scope of the eligible activities under article 7 of the egf regulation. i supported the report in the plenary vote.
in writing. - the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade. on 10 july 2014, the commission adopted a proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for the benefit of the netherlands to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant by 89 companies in the border regions of gelderland and overijssel as a result of the construction industry downturn following the global financial and economic crisis. i supported the report in the plenary vote.
in writing. - the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade. spain has requested assistance from the european commission because a total of 587 workers were laid off in three companies processing wood and wood products and wood products in the region of castilla y león between 28 december 2012 and 28 september 2013. of these, 400 can be helped by the european globalisation adjustment fund to find a job again through retraining. i supported the report in the plenary vote.
as a citizen of romania, i know from my own experience what the infamous atheist-nationalist policy of the ceausescu regime meant, which, on the basis of the principle of 'one nation, one language, one religion', tried by force to homogenize the population of our multilingual and multi-religious country. islamic fundamentalism, namely the extremist sunni terrorist organisation known as the islamic state, is persecuting, exterminating and expelling ethnic and religious minorities from their homelands in the manner of former totalitarian regimes, with the aim of forcing the inhabitants of the middle east, iraq and syria into the monolithic state system of the caliphate. the primary target of the islamic state is christianity. the christian community in the middle east is in grave danger of being driven out by a mass exodus triggered by brutal violence on the scale of religious cleansing and genocide. call it what it is: in the vast majority of islamic countries, this is a persecution of christians at the state level. no amount of political correctness can justify minimizing or relativising the persecution of christ's followers. the european union's christian roots and its remnants of faith, as well as its conscience and its human values, oblige it to stand in full solidarity in defence of its persecuted brothers and sisters. i would ask the president of the european parliament to do so.
in writing. - my fellow members of parliament! the greatest human tragedy of our time is happening far away, yet right in front of us in iraq, as a result of the barbaric expansion of the islamic state. europe is also looking for opportunities to act, but the path is hard to find. i would like to draw the attention of european leaders to the fact that the handling of the crisis in iraq is not a religious, ethical issue. a question that threatens the lives of millions of people urgently needs an international and european response. the facts are short: according to charity international, the number of christian and non-christian refugees and victims in the region now stands at 1.2 million. what they have in common is that they're threatened by jihadists. these persecuted people look to us, to europe, with hope. we hear their cries for help every day. they cannot be disappointed in europe today, whether they are christians or not. and europe is not supposed to debate religious issues. we have to save lives. we must say, however, that the greatest persecution in iraq today is being suffered by christians. a 2,000-year-old christian culture could disappear before our eyes. not just the middle east, but the whole world could be poorer with an indigenous community. i repeat: the expansion of the islamic state means the final persecution and elimination of the christians of iraq today, at the beginning of the 21st century. the people who are fighting against isis trust us. we're telling them that they're fighting for us in iraq. europe must show courage and determination by taking concrete steps of solidarity. thank you for your attention.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, as a seasoned diplomat told me the other day in relation to the gaza war: once hostilities stop, the incentives for politicians and other actors to engage in serious diplomacy quickly fade. we have a very small window of opportunity. the title of this joint resolution indicated that the eu, including the european parliament, was willing to take a bold step towards becoming a serious player in the middle east peace process. unfortunately, the resolution does not deliver on its title. i wish i could say it did, but we are unfortunately unable to co-sign it, basically because, unless the forthcoming negotiations in cairo are broadened to include much more than simply the ceasefire agreement between israel and the gaza authorities, there is no hope for any meaningful peace process to be started. mr della vedova said that the eu would leave no stone unturned. i hope he is right about that, but this resolution may be more notable for what is missing from it than for what it says. this is, in fact, a resolution full of unturned stones. my colleague has already mentioned a number of them: i will add two. accountability for all violations of international humanitarian law by all sides is a minimum requirement for a meaningful peace process. endorsing the request by the united nations relief and works agency (unrwa) for these accountability measures and for humanitarian aid to go unimpeded into gaza is a minimum requirement, but it did not find its way into the joint resolution. nor did a minimum request for an ad hoc delegation by this very parliament to see the facts on the ground. at the end of the day, unfortunately, we cannot support this text, and the window of opportunity is closing very quickly.
every few years, the state of israel kills and maim 10,000 palestinians and razes gaza to the ground. why would you do that? because he can. it seems to him that there are no consequences. i ask the representative of the european council here present to explain the following. question 1: what is the european union doing to ensure that war criminals are brought to justice? secondly, what is the european union doing to ensure that israel is liable for the damage and that the taxpayers of the european union do not have to rebuild again and again what israel destroys? third question: it is quite clear that israel is in systematic and continuous violation of, in particular, the second paragraph of article 2 of the association agreement between israel and the european union. when are they going to suspend this contract?
not a day has gone by in recent times without us hearing about very serious human rights violations around the world. i am thinking here of the persecution of christians in iraq and syria, which we discussed yesterday afternoon, but there are terrible reports in the media about the number of children, the number of child victims in these countries. and we also know that right now, thousands of children and women are living in refugee camps every day, where as the cold approaches, their situation is getting more difficult, their survival is getting more difficult. therefore, we must do everything possible to protect christians from the cruelties of the dark ages. we must protect children, women, deprived of their human rights from the horrors of the growing number of wars and armed conflicts everywhere in the world. i would also like to speak about the protection of linguistic and national minorities. because these communities are not mentioned very much. and yet, there are millions of people around the world whose basic human rights are being violated, and who are fighting every day to survive, to stay in their homeland. the european parliament and the european union must take a stand. and i think that not only response is needed, but also prevention, and that is where the role of the foreign affairs commissioner, the commission, the eu delegations, has a role and can have more roles. we expect more consequences from the european parliament's emergency human rights resolutions, which are often just words in practice. at the same time, i would like to say that i am very sorry that some colleagues are using this debate for political purposes, for their own political purposes, because there are so many problems in the world that we really need to talk about seriously and do something about, not just wait for a reaction, but try to act in advance.
in writing. - i abstained on the motion for a resolution. the reason for this is that i fundamentally disagree with the european parliament adopting a resolution on the situation in ukraine two days after the vote on the eu-ukraine association agreement. the association agreement is a clear signal to all citizens of ukraine and the european union. it's a symbolic and historic step that we can take with pride, and it's in both our interests. however, the parties must exercise restraint. we need to let the sanctions on russia work, as they have already begun. we also have to wait for the ukrainian elections on october 26. in the current situation, the adoption of such a resolution is not in the interest of either the ukrainian side or the european union.
in writing. – the european union and the international community must do more and act more promptly to stop the effects of ebola contamination spilling over. ebola has killed more than 2 400 people this year and its rapid spread is threatening hundreds of thousands of people. i strongly believe that the international community, together with the african countries, must act quickly in their joint efforts as the virus poses a global security challenge. i supported this resolution because we have to call on the commission to intensify efforts and coordinate with the united nations to combat the ebola virus. moreover, the council and the commission should support the african union and encourage it to apply a holistic action plan as the situation continues to deteriorate rapidly and is threatening the economies and public order of the countries concerned.
in writing. in recent times, not a day has gone by without us hearing about the persecution of christians, especially in iraq and syria. the media are full of horrific stories, often unfortunately about child victims. we also know that thousands of children and women are currently living in refugee camps, where it is becoming more difficult to survive as the cold approaches. we must therefore do everything possible to protect these christians from the cruelties of the dark ages. we must protect children, women, deprived of their human rights from the horrors of war, from the horrors of weapons anywhere in the world.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on the situation in iraq and syria and the attacks by the islamic state against religious minorities, including christians. i believe that the greatest human tragedy of our time is taking place in the region, where an urgent international and european response is needed to a question that threatens the existence of millions. the management of the crisis in iraq is therefore not a religious or ethnic issue; europe must save lives! the text emphasises the inalienable right of christians and other minorities to live in their homeland in dignity, equality and security, and to practice their religion freely.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. indeed, when people are struck by a natural disaster, the first word is always solidarity. this is the case in italy, but it is also the case in other countries. but the second word is to think about the future. if it is true that water is the gold of the future, then this gold must be started to be stored now. i would like to see a europe sooner or later, but sooner rather than later, where it is not a question of the damage caused by water, but of how much water there is, how much water comes in, how we use it. it would therefore be good for this parliament to have the commission report regularly on the state of play of the flood directive, the flood action programme.
, in writing. there was perhaps no country in europe this year that was not struck by some natural disaster. in addition to several member states, serbia and bosnia-herzegovina were devastated by the floods of the century. climate change, the capriciousness of weather, has made floods and other disasters more frequent. it seems that humanity's recklessness in protecting the environment has perpetuated and systematized these situations. this also means that the scope and cost of prevention, control and recovery are fixed and permanently reflected in the member states' budgets, in most cases further burdening the already fragile budgetary balance. the eu solidarity fund has faced major challenges in recent years, mainly due to the lack of funds, but also because of the constant criticism of the criteria for the use of the fund. despite the commission's best efforts, the procedure is still too complex and the response time is too slow. human behavior is unlikely to change any time soon, so environmental destruction continues, with all its harmful consequences. i therefore believe that we need to set up a european disaster relief fund with substantial financial resources, which will enable us to deal with emergencies in a professional, efficient and, most importantly, rapid manner. because it seems that in the future, natural disasters and related prevention or recovery activities will be an integral part of the lives of europeans.
in writing. last year, on june 9, 2013, budapest experienced the highest flood of the danube in its history (891 cm). however, on the basis of the experience gained in the 2002 danube and 2006 danube and tisza, and in 2010 in northern hungary, the national directorate-general for disaster management and other bodies have made appropriate preliminary investments and preparations. thus, in june 2013, an unprecedented nationwide effort was made to avert the greatest flood threat ever faced in hungary. i would like to emphasize the importance of preparation in flood protection, taking the example of hungary. i welcome the spring reshaping of the eu solidarity fund processes, which will allow member states to access financial assistance from 2015 onwards in the form of advance payments, up to 10% of the final expected amount of support. as the current serbian example shows, the possibility of advance payments is of prime importance: the floods in serbia took place in mid-may, the commissioner responsible for regional policy announced the amount of aid expected in mid-october, but parliament and the council will only approve it later. the way in which member states show solidarity and solidarity in the face of natural disasters is symbolic, beyond the obvious practical help.
my fellow officers. i think it is very important that we address the issue of job creation at every plenary session. as we know, the employment issue is also a priority in the eu treaty and the europe 2020 strategy. the objective of this europe 2020 strategy is to achieve a 75% employment rate. that's a very ambitious goal. with the exception of a few western european countries, i think the other member states have a very hard time getting it. we too have difficulty in achieving this objective and we must promote employment growth by means that are effective. i would like to say that i think it is a big mistake to focus on young people only, because there are so many groups - the elderly, the low-skilled, the disabled - that are worth looking at and that need to be addressed. so i suggest we take a more complex approach.
madam president, i have to ask you to leave. i really agree with all those who think that job creation is a priority and should be addressed on a recurring basis. perhaps as a result of this, the commission has now accepted the proposal of many of us to raise the age limit for the european youth guarantee from 25 to 30 years. however, despite all our efforts, it should be noted that the national accounts, the examination and control of statistical accounts are at least as important as many other instruments here. i can take the example of my country, hungary, where the government has introduced a public works program in which for 4/6 hours a day in a month, they give a salary of 150 euros, but they consider these people to be employed. one word is worth a hundred, and setting loud goals is a good thing, but controlling them is just as important.
i would like to ask my fellow citizen, commissioner andor, how much you believe in the concept of decent work, the concept of the 'decent right'? many documents of the european union and the council of europe now speak of decent work, not just any work. and my next question is: how do you think the world of work has been able to emerge from slavery in the last five years, since you have been here as a hungarian, as a new member state commissioner, for example, for your compatriots, or for workers in slavery in the poorer member states? how about the fact that a hungarian woman recently summed up the situation of workers by saying that we have become "exchangeable objects"? are we living our lives in vulnerability to the labor lenders, in disenfranchisement, in total disenfranchisement of labor? what is this result to you?
on behalf of the s&d group. the report before us, at least as we hope, shows the true face of europe in terms of economic policies. it is important that we finally face up to the fact that on this continent, the process or processes of so-called structural reforms that individual governments are carrying out have indeed been implemented in many places in a flawed way, and the result is not necessarily nice numbers in economic policy statistics, but in many cases impoverishment and other downward social processes. that is why we socialists and democrats have six key points which - at least in their current form - will probably be included in the report before the vote tomorrow. one is to emphasize the equal importance of private and public investment. the second, and this is a very important one, is to prevent tax evasion or tax fraud, because one of europe's greatest resources may be the tax that has not been collected yet. similarly, the promotion of equal opportunities between men and women is a matter of great concern to us, and we are particularly concerned about the need to ensure that it is reflected in all aspects of our work, as is the need for a more balanced tax system. which is a big debate in europe today, but we have to get things in order here, too, the right of free movement of workers. that's being questioned. we want to keep him in. finally, the 300 million euro of fresh money envisaged by mr juncker. if all this is in order, we'll be happy to support the report.
that's a two-card answer. the truth is, i was just consulting with my colleagues, so i don't know if the question has been raised.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. first of all, i would like to make a general point that in this debate my colleagues have often tried to impose on the european semester tasks which are not its responsibility. mr. de backer is therefore in a very difficult position because we were involved in a general discussion. let me focus on the european semester and highlight one area that is really important and that could also be an opportunity for us. this is the strengthening of the internal market pillar, within the internal market pillar there are many pieces of legislation, but they are quite intricate, very difficult to adjust. we should focus on getting these rules right, which most studies say could actually lead to growth. this is particularly true in the digital single market, where we have a lot of opportunities. i would like to highlight another important area, which has been touched upon by several of my colleagues, namely the issue of country-specific recommendations. i think the country-specific recommendations are too general at the moment. they should be much more concrete, much more country-specific, as their name implies. unfortunately, this report does not contain any reference to the inputs that should be defined here, nor do i have any indicators that would be suitable for measuring the recommendations. there are two other important topics that i would like to touch on. one is the issue of financing the sme sector. it would have been good to have included a more detailed proposal in the report. i am glad that mr de backer's report has addressed tax evasion as an area, as an important area, and has highlighted the proposal which i made in the imco opinion. thank you for your work, and i will be voting in favor of this report.
in writing. - my fellow members of parliament! the debate on monitoring and improving internal market rules and processes, and on country-specific indicators, is very important, and i fully support the professional position of the hungarian vice-president of the ep. at the same time, let me say that in the context of wage restraint and job creation, balanced and deliberate action is needed. it is well known that a large number of new jobs have been created in the eastern half of europe since eu accession, and it is also true that these secure jobs have been created partly because of lower wages. equal pay for equal work in the eastern and western member states is, however, unthinkable if existing jobs, hard-won and maintained, are being lost in the eastern half of europe in a massive and rapid manner. as a reminder, in hungary, each year between 2002 and 2010 had higher reported and large-scale group reductions than in any year during the last four years of the second orbán government. this outcome must be safeguarded and the goal of full employment - which is also stated in the eu treaty - must be pursued in order to provide as many people as possible with work and thus increase the economy and thus the standard of living.
in writing. the european semester, the business semester, assesses the economic policies of the member states on the basis of objective criteria, irrespective of the current government majority. contrary to the government's propaganda of success, the autumn commission forecast shows that hungary is lagging behind its regional competitors. the growing public debt may even lead to a return to the excessive deficit procedure, which implies closer monitoring of the eu budget. luxury investments, the senseless war for freedom, will lead to a budget cut of up to 1,700 billion forints next year, which will be taken from the pockets of the hungarian people by fidesz. it is telling that before the municipal elections the current government did not dare to say this to the eyes of the hungarian people. the hungarian government continues to tighten the budget, draining resources from higher education and health care, putting low-income people in a hopeless situation. one in three hungarian youths is unemployed. as a result of a misguided economic policy, more than half a million hungarians, mostly young people, are now working abroad. instead of a civil society takeover and an excessive internet tax, what is needed is the immediate introduction of the euro and a change in the one-stop-shop tax system that hurts the poor and disproportionately rewards the rich. it is useful for the european commission to look beyond governments. eu control can be a safeguard for hungarian citizens against the irresponsible economic policies of the fidesz government.
in writing. - the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade. spain has requested assistance from the globalisation adjustment fund to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant in 142 spanish companies in the machinery and equipment sector as a result of the global financial and economic crisis. spain thus lost some 600 000 industrial jobs between 2008 and 2012, of which 150 000 were in the manufacture of metal products. the loss of jobs represented 24% of total industrial employment and 35% of total jobs in the metal products sector. the coordinated package of personalised services to be provided to redundant workers includes the following actions: career guidance, placement, training (vocational training, further training, development of transversal skills, on-the-job training), support for entrepreneurship, support for starting a business, job search support, contribution to the costs of going to work (incubation) and employment incentives. the commission considers that the measures described above constitute an active labour market measure falling within the scope of the eligible activities under article 7 of the egf regulation and that, following the request of spain, it is entitled to receive a financial contribution of eur 1 019 184. i supported the report in the plenary vote.
in writing. - the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade. belgium requested assistance from the globalisation adjustment fund as the 512 redundancies of which 479 workers are expected to participate in the measures at the assembly plant of ford-werke gmbh in genk and at the supplier of ford genk 10 in belgium in the reference period from 1 july to 1 november 2013 have caused significant local labour market tensions. the request concerns the mobilisation of a total of eur 570 945 from the egf for the benefit of belgium. the commission has concluded that the application meets the requirements for mobilising the egf as laid down in regulation (ec) no 1927/2006 and that the measures taken by the belgian authorities constitute a coordinated, personalised package of services and active labour market measures aimed at reintegrating workers into the labour market and will help some 479 redundant workers to re-enter the labour market. i supported the report in the plenary vote.
in writing. - the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade. the belgian authorities have requested the european commission to address the redundancies at carsid sa, which are linked to major structural changes due to globalisation and are linked to the rapid decline of the union's global market share and the continuous decline of the production of castings in the union, due to the decreased demand for steel in the automotive and construction sectors; the commission's proposal provides for the mobilisation of eur 911 934 from the fund for technical assistance to the commission. according to the belgian authorities, the measures launched on 1 october 2013 constitute a coordinated, personalised package of services and active labour market measures aimed at reintegrating workers into the labour market. i supported the report in the plenary vote.
in writing. - the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of changes in world trade. the amount of the appropriation is eur 150 million. so far, hungary has never benefited from this framework, although very serious unemployment has arisen in my country as a result of the crisis artificially generated by the eu's central countries and the usa. aid may only be granted to a country which is a victim of the crisis. here, a belgian company asked for aid, so i voted no, because belgium is one of the causes of the crisis and a beneficiary of the colonization of the new eu member states.
in writing. - the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade. france requested assistance from the globalisation adjustment fund because, following the redundancies at peugeot citroën automobiles involving 6120 workers, mainly in the île-de-france (aulnay) and brittany (rennes) regions, there is a significant industrial changeover at the sites concerned and measures are needed to help relocate the local workforce. the commission considers that the conditions laid down in article 1 (a) of the egf regulation are met and that france is therefore entitled to a financial contribution under that regulation, which constitutes an active labour market measure falling within the scope of the eligible activities under article 7 of the egf regulation. a financial contribution of eur 12 704 605, requested by france, should be mobilised to provide personalised assistance to redundant workers: reception structure and case management, external expert advice, thematic workshops, training, training grants, start-up grants. i supported the report in the plenary vote.
, in writing. the barroso ii commission operated in difficult circumstances as a kind of single issue commission, having to deal almost exclusively with the various aspects of economic crisis management, contrary to its original intentions. it is to be appreciated that it has also taken important and partly successful initiatives in crisis management that are worth pursuing (such as tackling youth unemployment). at the same time, the underlying approach and the current european economic policy practice are seriously lacking, to the detriment of the objectives of growth and genuinely effective quality job creation and european solidarity in the social field. the past has taught us a valuable lesson: if necessary, particularly in difficult periods of european integration, the commission must be able to act more effectively against member state governments which threaten the community and the european project from an economic and/or political point of view.
my fellow members of the house of representatives! the european council's decision to put security of supply on the agenda is a good one for two reasons. on the one hand, the situation in russia and ukraine gives the matter a clear urgency, and on the other, it is the member states that have a lot to do in this area. over the past years, the work of the commission and the parliament has identified all the existing instruments, measures and action plans that can contribute to the security of supply in europe. many of these have already come true. however, in many cases, member states are lagging behind in implementing or enforcing the legislation. for example, the introduction of mandatory physical two-way traffic and the development of simplified infrastructure authorisation processes are slow. as a result, the focus in the coming period should be on much more effective implementation. i would like to highlight two areas. one of the most important previous commission initiatives was to coordinate action with external strategic partners and suppliers. it is therefore welcome that the high representative-designate for foreign affairs and security policy has set the objective of creating the conditions for appropriate coordination between member states. the other priority medium-term measure, accelerating the implementation of projects of common interest, has also been discussed for some time. i support the proposal that the commission should play a greater role in project coordination. in conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, let me stress once again that the ball is now in the court of the member states. parliament has done most of its work. the success of the enhanced security of supply now depends primarily on the council and the member states.
i'll close this discussion. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council.
the following is the order of business for the debate on draft amending budget no 2/2014 report on the surplus resulting from the implementation of the 2013 budget, prepared on behalf of the committee on budgets by mr gérard deprez (a8-0018/2014) (12300/2014 - c8-0160/2014 - 2014/2035 ((bud))
i thank the commissioner very much for his closing remarks, which are very important, a matter of credibility, i might add, and i would ask minister zanetti to say his closing remarks on behalf of the council.
i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place on wednesday 22 october 2014.
the following is the order of business for the debate on the report on the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2015, together with the related budgetary conclusions, by eider gardiazabal rubial and monika hohlmeier (a8-0014/2014) on behalf of the committee on budgets:
my fellow members of the house of representatives! first of all, i want to congratulate the performers, they did a great job. 1500 amendments had to be decided in the committee on budgets. the decision was facilitated by the fact that the proposers had created acceptable compromises. the fidesz meps support the motion on our table, mainly because the epp first adopted the amendments we had tabled, which then became part of the compromises mentioned above. i would particularly like to stress that parliament would increase the payment of the structural funds programmes in the 2015 budget by some eur 4 billion compared to the council's original proposal. we want to ensure that the process that several of my colleagues have already spoken about regarding unpaid bills does not continue in 2015. the european parliament also called for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu's external action is coordinated with the eu's external action. in this respect, we do not consider amendment no 1 tabled by the european commission to be supplementary, and we have some concerns in this respect.
this report also points to a major contradiction in the european union, but it cannot solve it. the autonomy of the member states is declining, we are moving towards a federal state, but the budget for common tasks is only 1% of the total income. it is an order of magnitude less than that required for a federal state to perform common tasks, which is a state arrangement we naturally reject. active contributors complain that they cannot bear more burdens, but they do not take into account that 100 billion euros a year flow to them from the periphery countries to the core countries. cohesion funds are declining, and the gap between regions has widened in the last cycle. this budget clearly shows the difference between reality and eu rhetoric.
, in writing. the eu budget must be negotiated with a view to increasing cohesion and agricultural aid, which are the engines of development and job creation. any attempt to reduce these resources will hamper the recovery from the crisis. i therefore ask the members of the european parliament to support the budget committee's proposal. the committee on agriculture and rural development shall be a single committee. we will not allow next year's rural development funds, subsidies to producer organisations and subsidies to beekeeping and wine production to be reduced by a penny. we also cannot tolerate the compensation for the russian agricultural embargo from the agricultural crisis fund. the commission's letter of amendment, adopted last week, would still finance this eur 344 million from the crisis fund. this would lead to a reduction in direct payments in all member states. instead of the crisis fund, the aid should be financed from the earmarked revenues. it is a great success that the amendments which we tabled together with mr deutsch have been incorporated into the parliament's proposal. so we would be providing an extra €7 million for school fruit and €4 million for school meal programmes. this step will not only help our dairy and fruit and vegetable industries, but it will also help the health and well-being of our children, which is one of our main goals.
it's a two-card draw. it is quite clear that all member states must respect the so-called common european values, but tell me where in the treaties it is stated that this must be solved by a country with a liberal system, a cosmopolitan principle above nations, or by conservative principles, with national identity as important. where is it written that liberal state organisation is obligatory for a member state? answer this.
it's a two-card draw. staying on topic, i have two short questions in 30 seconds. if something is liberal, it can still be democracy, and i would like to ask you if you have read the speech of the prime minister of hungary on this subject, and if so, do i understand correctly that you consider, for example, the christian democracy referred to by the prime minister to be a different kind of democracy?
it's a two-card draw. do you know that despite the fact that we have been debating the state of the judiciary in hungary for a year and a half, the official judicial scoreboard of the european commission, according to data from march this year, has given judicial independence in hungary 6 points more than in the previous year, in the middle of the member states. and on the issue of trust in the judiciary, he stands with france. these facts and figures official commission figures prove otherwise than what you are saying.
my fellow officers. the essence of true democracy is not just free choice, but above all that it is not the state that controls and limits its citizens, but the citizens who control and limit the state. this change was not possible in hungary since the change of regime, regardless of which party was in power, which is the essence of the european union. the european union's neoliberal, globalist policies and economic policies have put workers in a state of fear and vulnerability, who are working in factories for 200 euros, without any rights. farmers can't sell their crops, and their land is being plundered from both sides: the domestic oligarchs on one side, and the westerners on the other. small businesses can't compete with the big multinationals. so there is no strong, independent, upstanding citizenry that can control power. this was the outline of the speech i had originally prepared, but in the meantime, an interesting thing happened: mrs. in 't veld, who is the leading figure in the continuous attacks and wars against hungary, just before this debate, went to józsef szájer and my colleague gál kinga and they had a very friendly, friendly 10-minute conversation. let's try it out, what is transparency and democracy, please inform us about what you are talking about in such a good mood and what is this whole theater around hungary. (the president accepted but did not reply to the question 'carton bleu' (article 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
that's a two-card answer. well, if you have such good relations, i don't see what's wrong with democracy, you're practicing democracy perfectly. i just want to know if these certain disadvantaged, disenfranchised workers, small business owners and farmers feel something of this democracy, and i would also really like you to tell me that right before this supposedly war-like debate, what you were talking about for 10 minutes in such a blissfully good mood and friendship, while pretending here that i don't know what great hostility there is between you. it's a matter for the voters.
sweet christ of the mormons. i'm also very polite and friendly with you, even though we disagree on almost everything! you attack the honourable viktor orbán because he believes that the burden of the crisis should not be borne by small people, but by large companies with capital. he imposed taxes on banks, financial transactions and the advertising market. hungary was among the first to emerge from the crisis, with zero percent inflation, four percent economic growth, and the fastest decline in unemployment. and all this without having forgiven a single cent of hungary's debt, without having asked for the free money of the taxpayers of any other country. you say that the freedom of the press has been violated, but what you mean is that the hungarian state has uniformly taxed the advertising market, and this tv channel, which has so far escaped from the public burden by tricks, has not escaped. you say the hungarian government is harassing civilians, but you mean that foundations that share your views can violate financial regulations with impunity. you say that viktor orbán does not respect human rights, but in fact, what is wrong with you is that he is a christian democrat and not a liberal, which is what even the communists here are demanding. europe has a problem with freedom. several governments are considering how to impede the union's fundamental freedom, the free movement of labour. this is really worth a debate in the european parliament. but hungarian democracy is not to be worried about here, it's to be thankful, it's fine, it's already proven its strength for the third time this year. in the last election ten days ago, fidesz won 616 seats, the left 34 and the right 14 mayoral seats. keep your hands off hungary!
it's a two-card draw. - madam president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i came from the civil sphere, became a fidesz mp, and for eight years i've been running an organization representing people with disabilities as its president. i know exactly how diverse the civil sphere in hungary is. there are 65 000 civil society organisations in hungary and there are high standards of transparency for organisations, both in terms of their legal functioning and financial accounts. my question, madam president, is that in your country, if a non-governmental organisation is not conducting its business properly and the authorities in your country take action and carry out checks, what would you call it?
i wanted to talk about something else, but my colleagues from the sajer and kosa deputies have falsely accused hungarian ngos, so we have to react to this. in the investigation against hungarian ngos, the suspicion changes from week to week, the prosecution, the police and the government itself don't even know what they're looking for, they just want to find something. the only thing that has been established so far in the case of these investigations, ladies and gentlemen, is that the kehi investigation that was launched against the ngos was illegal. kehi had no right to be investigated by these organisations. so far, only the hungarian government has been found guilty of this case, and this proves more than anything else how democracy works in hungary, how the hungarian government works. and my fellow members of congress! let me draw your attention to one thing. this debate is not about the hungarian government and it's not just about hungary. the example that is being set in hungary, the example that the european institutions are allowing to be set there, can also serve as an example for other member states' political aspirations. my fellow fidesz mps, even for political forces with which you may not have sympathy.
the european parliament is hereby established. a few hours before the national holiday of the hungarian revolution of 1956, i want to say that it was not we, the hungarian social democrats, who brought this issue to parliament. yet, at this very moment, the new hungarian state party, the orbán regime, is pressing its press with full force, betraying me and our colleagues, even if someone sits in the ranks of the people's party, and accuses them of attacking hungary, just because we do not agree with the regime that works at home. they have no shame, and that's why i want to apologize to you now on behalf of fidesz for having to deal again and again with the state of hungarian democracy, and now i want to apologize to hungarian society as well, that while 600,000 hungarian children are starving, while 4 million hungarians live below the poverty line, while hundreds of thousands are leaving the country because of economic conditions, in the meantime we have to deal with the state of democracy instead of the government doing what it should do: fixing the country's affairs. ladies and gentlemen, i would like to avoid the state of hungarian democracy being the subject of our next debate in this house, but in the meantime we, as democrats, must draw attention to the fact that such processes are taking place... (the president takes the floor) (the speaker agrees to answer a question with a "card of gold" (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure). )
it's a two-card draw. - my dear fellow. you used the word "regime". now, everyone knows that the regime is not a democratic system. you might not have noticed that there were three elections in hungary this year in which the left did not appear very brightly?
that's a two-card answer. thank you very much for your question, mr. member, because i can now continue what i have just begun. because of the state of hungarian democracy, we can use the term "regime" without any problems. you have created a new electoral system in which you can secure two-thirds of the power with far fewer votes. they have implemented a municipal electoral system that - for example, in the capital, where the left-wing voters are in the majority - has prevented the left-wing forces from winning. and you have brought about hungarian legislation, a constitution, which makes it impossible for the prosecution, the hungarian media and the constitutional court to do the work that should be done in a normal democracy. that's why they're still in the majority today, but not for long. in 2018, things will change!
my fellow members of the house of representatives! this is the third plenary debate on hungary. so here's an opportunity to learn some lessons. first of all, these arguments are completely pointless! by the way, in the past, all disputes have been settled, but never in this house. in each case, they were arranged by the european commission and the willingness of the hungarian government to compromise, which is always ready for negotiation. secondly, these debates did not in the least harm the popularity of the hungarian government of the people's party, but they caused serious damage to the left-wing opposition in hungary. a few days ago, the left suffered its third shock electoral defeat this year, partly because of these controversies that offend many hungarians. and finally, hungary is a well-functioning democracy, which we prove no better than the fact that the decision of the hungarian people, made in free elections by an overwhelming majority, thank god, cannot be overruled either in brussels or here in strasbourg.
i find my colleague gyürk's concern about the hungarian left touching. we're honored that you're so concerned about us. but let me tell you that this is not about that, and it is not about the hungarian election results, but about the policy of the hungarian government, the policy that has been constantly provoking conflicts with the european community, the european union, for the last four years. the european community is not going to be able to build an illiberal democracy, i tell my honourable colleagues, a wooden iron fist. i would like to say that the opposition that this government is producing is a problem for the european community as well. this is not a problem of hungary, this is a serious violation of the law by a european member state. that is why i think this debate, honourable member, belongs here, in this house, because we are members of the european parliament to find the political instruments, to create the institutions and mechanisms with which we can lead those member states - and this is hungary in particular - which have strayed from the rule of law back onto the european path. (the intervener agrees to answer a question referred for a preliminary ruling (article 162 (8) of the rules of procedure). )
that's a two-card answer. allow me to remind you, my friend, that two people have said what i have said. this is not just about hungary, but about the rule of law in the european community member states in general. hungary is one such member state. i'm sure there are problems elsewhere, you've listed some of them, but i think it's a linear approach, and hungary is the topic. the next time romania is brought into this parliament, we will of course talk about it.
it's a two-card draw. i was going to ask mr. niedermüller the same thing. i understand you're both socialists. do you also blame liberalism on the hungarian government? this is quite surprising.
it is very interesting to see the debate we have in this parliament about liberal democracy, christian democracy. i think these are worth discussing in a broader sense, they would go further than the fact that we are discussing hungary here. gentlemen, you were not talking about any other country here, but you wanted to discuss hungary in general. you were discussing hungary only and you were making court judgments. they said the rule of law was over, they talked about specific violations, but they didn't mention a single violation. they can't prove a single thing, just like they did for a year and a half in the tavares debate, which we heard here over and over again, and then what happened? they found no specific violation! i say that they are trying to accept that the hungarian people in democratic elections - and i answer that yes, there were elections to the european parliament, the same result came out as in every election - decided several times to give a superior confirmation to this government. don't try to protect the hungarian people against our will!
i asked to speak at this time because it was said many times during the debate that there is no violation of the law in hungary, at least not from the christian democratic side. i would like to remind everyone, but especially the commission, that during the spring elections, the representatives of the osce, that is, the organisation for security and cooperation in europe, prepared a nice, long report on the hungarian elections, and there is a summary sentence that evaluates the fact that in hungary the governing parties enjoyed disproportionate advantages during the elections, and in addition the report lists in several points that the government and the hungarian authorities deliberately violated the copenhagen convention governing elections for european needs. europe didn't seem to care about that, even though it was a european organization that issued this certificate.
madam president, i have to ask you to leave. my fellow members of the house of representatives! october 23rd, as long as hungarian people live on earth, will always be a symbol of the struggle for hungarian freedom. yes, mr. deputy, it is the eve of this holiday, and you, hungarian members of parliament from another group, are about to interfere with hungary's sovereignty through the eu institutions. and all of this, of course, is done in the name of democracy. as a politician, i represent a community whose ancestors gave their lives for this freedom. of course, i understand your difficult situation, because you socialists have ideologues who say that 56 is a counter-revolution. the gyula horn, whose name is on a room in the european parliament, said it was counter-revolution. i am concerned about the credibility of this institution and i would like to avoid the european parliament getting involved in a political fight between four members over who will be the head of the delegation. i'd like to avoid the whole "gurgenheim scenario" here.
madam president, i have to ask you to leave. the day after tomorrow, we celebrate the 58th anniversary of the outbreak of the hungarian revolution and war of independence in 1956. it is painful and shameful that the hungarian socialist faction of the european parliament is using our national holiday to launch a new series of attacks against its own country. the representatives of the hungarian socialist delegation, who are of the post-communist persuasion, held a public hearing yesterday on the violation of media freedom in hungary. those who are defaming hungary under the pretext of european values and defending democracy and the rule of law against viktor orbán in this plenary session were silent when, in 2006, also on the anniversary of the revolution, the post-communist gyurcsány regime violently dispersed peaceful celebrants and protesters. it is time for the european union and the parliament to stop applying double standards to hungary's governments of different parties.
to put together a body of commissioners capable of carrying out their duties is an impossible task. the commissioners are the union's ministers. there are no 28 segregated areas. member states shall not appoint me. most of the candidates have no prior experience in the field they're about to lead. it's not uncommon for a candidate who's considered a good fit for one portfolio to be reassigned to another, and the relevant committees applaud how brilliantly he's prepared for the stereotypical responses in five days. the whole process is tragicomic. it is not tragic because the commissioners do not really have a decisive role in the most important decisions that shape the union. these expected major decisions are communicated to the chairman of the committee in office.
in writing. if you know the postcard entitled the perfect european should be..., this cartoon may also be relevant to the new commission. according to the perfect european, he cooks like a brit, is humorous like a german, sober like an irishman, organized like a greek, and modest like a spaniard. president juncker seems to have allocated the portfolios in the new commission on this basis. spain's cañete, with its significant oil interests, will thus be responsible for ensuring that europe's climate and energy policy is sufficiently ambitious and that the union plays a leading role at the paris climate summit at the end of next year, where an international system capable of preventing the catastrophic consequences of climate change should be agreed. in recent years, the statue of budgetary discipline has not been modelled on paris, yet moscovici will be the commissioner responsible for economic, financial and taxation matters. will he be able to overcome the eu's economic difficulties? and here is tibor navracsics, in charge of education, culture, youth affairs. he is the only candidate for commissioner who has not received support from a coalition which otherwise supports the commission. and who will perhaps represent the terribly retrograde educational policy that the hungarian government has implemented in recent years. as a responsible member of parliament, i cannot support this commission with my vote.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the election of the european commission, as the commission under juncker's leadership has more democratic legitimacy than ever, thanks to the treaty of lisbon, which has ensured greater transparency of political processes, including the role of the european parliament and increased participation of european citizens. in this democratic process, the president of the commission was directly elected following a wide-ranging european campaign, and its members were accepted or rejected by the ep's committees after a thorough and critical hearing. the new commission can set out with a strong political mandate and a programme focusing on effective pro-growth european crisis management, job-oriented restructuring, european solidarity and a stronger commitment to fundamental rights and values. as a guarantee of the validation of leftist values, within the new, more focused structure of the juncker commission, the areas that are perhaps most important for the future (external relations, sustainable development, energy, fundamental rights) are supervised by vice-presidents who are aligned with the left. it is regrettable that, because of the negative european policy and the unfortunate actions of the hungarian government, hungary did not engage in the democratic process that led to the formation of the juncker commission, but instead became further marginalized and took on political burdens. the new european commission will be led by tibor navracsics, whose position is heavily weighted by the fact that he was not considered suitable for the post by the competent ep committee because of his political background.
in writing. - i supported this report because i believe that all cuts introduced by the council should be restored and it proposes using all the flexibility instruments of the multiannual financial framework in the 2015 budget, leading to an additional amount of more than eur 4 billion in payments in order to effectively address the situation. we need to promote growth and jobs with a credible and solidary budget that strengthens scientific research, erasmus+, the cef and smes. it therefore does not accept the council’s position, presenting cuts and deepening the payments problem.
in writing. - the objectives of recovery and job creation should be the main considerations in the negotiation of the eu budget. therefore, cohesion and agricultural aid, which are engines of development and job creation, should be increased in the first place. any attempt to reduce these resources would be to ignore the european union's main objectives, which the new commission has also set as its flagship: economic growth and job creation. it is sad that the council has finally adopted a position on next year's budget which is openly at odds with our objectives. i therefore voted in favour of the report proposed by the committee on budgets, which takes full account of the position of the committee on agriculture and rural development. we will not allow next year's rural development funds, the advance recognition and operating grants to producer organisations and the beekeeping and wine subsidies to be reduced by a penny. it is also a great success that the amendments which my colleague mr deutsch and i tabled together have been incorporated into the parliament's proposal. so we would be providing an extra €7 million for school fruit and €4 million for school meal programmes. this step, in addition to helping our dairy and fruit and vegetable sectors, serves the health and well-being of our children, which is in the interest of all europeans of good will to achieve.
in writing. - in my view, a way to improve the efficiency of the european semester is to make sure that reasons and causes for unsatisfactory implementation of csrs are properly analysed and eliminated. another is to radically strengthen national ownership of the csrs in individual member states to mobilise sufficient political support in favour of reforms. i also believe that more involvement by national parliaments could help. i support this ini report because i share the rapporteur’s position that the ep should support the european commission in its efforts to fully use the framework of the european semester to improve economic governance in europe
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report, which was the result of a long and difficult debate, because it contains a number of recommendations which should be included in the annual growth report and in various competition law documents, for example. this will be the commission's first task, to which we have sent very important signals. i voted in favour of the report, adding that we had clearly established that, although the economic recovery in some places was welcome, it did not mean that the recovery from the economic crisis had begun at european level, thanks to the structural reforms that had been implemented in a flawed manner. i believe that a correct and effective structural reform cannot be carried out with total disregard for social considerations. my vote in favour was also conditional on the report also taking a firm stand that public and private investment are both important and necessary elements if we want to restart the engine of europe. i should also stress that the report calls for further progress on tax avoidance and tax fraud, and on equal opportunities for men and women. moreover, in this report the european parliament does not advocate an increase in excise duty but a much more balanced tax system and the right to free movement of workers is clearly highlighted, which must remain an inviolable fundamental principle of the european union.
in writing. – first of all, i would like to express my regret that the european union has been so silent on the situation in hong kong. in my view we should not be shy about defending democracy in all parts of the globe. universal suffrage has no value if the validation of candidates is extremely restricted. personally, i hope that both sides show restraint and avoid the use of force, which would only complicate dialogue. as a vice-president of parliament and a member of the delegation for relations with the countries of southeast asia and the association of southeast asian nations, i will be determined not only to strengthen and enhance our relations but also to further develop our partnership in the best interests of both sides and of the international community.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. first of all, i would like to thank the court of auditors, the committee on budgetary control and, last but not least, bogusław sonik, the original author of the report. we will conclude a nearly one-year process with tomorrow's vote, by accepting my proposal as rapporteur and the proposal of the committee on budgetary control, to reject the council's final accounts for the fourth consecutive year. my new colleagues may not know this, but the rejection of the council's discharge is not new, since the european parliament has refused to grant the council discharge for the previous three years. this decision was taken in committee and in plenary, mainly because the council refused to cooperate with parliament in the discharge procedure. the european council refuses to participate in the committee hearing and refuses to cooperate with the committee responsible, citing a 'gentlemen's agreement' dating back to the 1970s. the fundamental problem is that the council does not recognise that parliament has the right to carry out the final accounts vis-à-vis it, in the same way as it does for all other eu institutions, although this right of the parliament has been confirmed on several occasions. the commission has also taken note of the fact that the council has not yet adopted a decision on the discharge to be given to the european parliament and the council in respect of the implementation of the budget. our committee asked for information on a number of issues, but in none of the following cases did the council provide parliament with the necessary documents, so that the discharge procedure could not be carried out in a meaningful way. serious shortcomings have been reported in the construction of the council's 'building europe'. the schuman square building has been under construction since 2008. despite the committee's repeated requests, the council did not provide any information on the costs of the project to date, the total amount of the investment or the method of financing. the construction is linked to the purchase and demolition of the so-called 'residence palace', which was previously partly located on the same site, and the council's office also refused to provide information on the costs of this. the committee on budgetary control has contacted the council on several occasions regarding the strategy for the transformation of the council's administration and the savings achieved, but to no avail. without answers to these open questions, we cannot recommend granting the exemption. on the basis of all this, ladies and gentlemen, i, as rapporteur, propose, as the committee on budgetary control has also supported, that parliament does not grant the council discharge for the financial year 2012.
president. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr pisani, for his report. first of all, i would like to thank my colleagues for their support and their valuable thoughts on what has been said in this plenary session and on the joint work that has been done in the committee on budgets. i think it is my conviction that the current situation, that the two fundamental institutions of the european union, the european parliament and the council, the european council, cannot agree on the procedure for the final accounts, is a poor certificate from both institutions and, as we often say, a very bad message to the citizens of europe. i believe that one of the most important tasks for us as members of the european parliament in the coming parliamentary term is to get the present situation out of the way, to start a dialogue and to work out an agreement that can finally resolve this situation. as mr liberadzki has said, the council has already made several proposals which give rise to confidence, and we are still considering the proposal made by the italian presidency at today's meeting as such, the credibility of which will be given by the substantive negotiations in the weeks and months ahead and, we hope, by the agreement. but in the present situation we have only one tool, parliament has only one tool, and that is to reject the discharge now definitively, i.e. in the second closure report i propose to reject the discharge for the 2012 financial year in the council at the final vote tomorrow.
with regard to the solidarity fund, madam vice-president, i believe that more flexibility and faster payments are needed for the member states eligible for assistance, and in particular for the candidate countries which are also eligible for assistance. this is particularly true for serbia, which was hit by severe flooding in the spring, further exacerbating the country's difficult economic situation and energy dependence, while it received perhaps the most positive country report from the european commission among the countries in the region. the eu's effective and swift support can empower serbia's leaders to continue on the path of european integration and building a strong rule of law in this delicate and complex foreign and security policy environment. the preservation of peace and stability is a priority for the eu, and it is particularly important for hungary, because there are 250,000 hungarians living in serbia, as is well known, and i am one of them.
madam president, energy security is a cornerstone of the common european energy policy. while the risk of russian gas dependency has been widely recognised, there has been much less discussion about nuclear investments. furthermore, russian energy companies are known to provide a means of influence for the russian government beyond mere business transactions. the hungarian government has agreed with rosatom to build two new reactors and the finnish government has also taken a decision to cooperate with rosatom on a new nuclear power plant. these investments will strongly affect european energy security as they will strengthen the trap of technology dependency, link the european energy supply to a nuclear-fuel cycle largely dependent on russian capacities, and make european energy supply more vulnerable through closer financial ties to the russian state and companies’ integral links to it. europe should take urgent action to deal with member state decisions that threaten europeʼs energy security.
madam president, at this very moment, the state celebrations commemorating the hungarian revolution of 1956 have begun in hungary. our national holiday is not characterized by the atmosphere of celebrating peaceful european democracy, but by social exclusion, fear of poverty, despair because of everyday life in hungary. that is why i would like to draw attention to a general european problem. hundreds of thousands of young people from hungary, almost 600,000 of my age, have emigrated to western europe, voting with their feet because of the hungarian economic and social conditions, and they are looking for their place, looking for their own new family opportunities. i will not leave the juncker commission alone, i will call attention to it every week, we need initiatives that help these young people to return to their own homes, to continue their lives there. i would like to thank commissioner andor lászló, the previous hungarian commissioner, for his work on the youth guarantee programme, but there must be a continuation, a home-coming programme.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, with the further advance of the islamic state, we are witnessing one of the greatest political crises in iraq in the early 21st century. incidents along the turkish border are a warning that jihadist expansion has reached the edge of the euro-atlantic sphere of interest. europe is one of the greatest hopes of the persecuted today. we in central europe, in hungary, have known since 1956 what it means to suffer military aggression. today, iraqis, most of them christians, are fleeing and suffering martyrdom. europe must not again be left behind by political considerations. pope francis, who is coming to visit us soon, earlier this week called for a real political commitment from the international community. what can europe do today? religious-based charities are an example. one of them, aid to the church in need, is spending millions of euros to build shelters as winter approaches. i repeat: europe's responsibility is growing, europe must save lives today, and our own citizens expect us to do so.
author. - madam president, the facts of the case that this resolution speaks about are very clear. there is no point in reciting all the facts; we all know, those of us who sit here and who have been observing developments in russia, that the actions by the ministry of justice and putin’s governments against memorial are basically a petty, malicious and vindictive response to the activities of memorial. the problem putin’s government has with memorial is not what it does, but what it stands for. what it stands for is the uncompromising and consistent denouncing of all the crimes of stalinism, and it has been doing that since the 1980s. now, i was a student at that time and a few of my heroes were among the memorial people who took enormous risks, personal risks, to commemorate the victims of stalinism, some of whom are no longer with us. memorial represents the continuity of that civilian courage, which putin’s government is very much against, and this is very clear. one more worrying sign is that, although this could be expected from putin’s russia, we are seeing some of the members in this assembly may for this very reason not be able actually to sign this joint resolution. that is something we need to reflect upon.
madam president, it is shocking to me that we are hearing today a case in which students peacefully protesting were shot, many of them killed, and 43 went missing. it is shocking that this tragedy will be tried on october 23rd. on the day in 1956 the hungarian nation, the hungarian people's glorious revolution began. on that day and the following, similar tragedies occurred in hungary. a multitude of students, workers, intellectuals gave their lives in a way that set an example to the whole world for freedom. on this day, a 56-strong delegation of hungarian students is symbolically here in the gallery, who, as an expression of their national pride, arrived here in parliament with small hungarian flags, which were confiscated from them. isn't there something wrong with human rights here in the european union? i'm going to symbolically hand over a hungarian flag to the president.
in writing. twenty-five years ago, the dream of many people was realized when the symbol of communism, the berlin wall, fell. the winds of change have already squeezed the gates of what was thought to be impenetrable. by the end of the summer, the first east german groups had crossed the hungarian border, and by september the iron curtain had disappeared. my generation was more or less a spectator of the rebirth of europe, but we believed that we would be citizens of a europe that was free and united. but many of the politicians of that time did not pretend to be fighting for themselves or for a new world. over the years, it became clear that our dreams of democracy had largely failed. we're going to hit walls again today. the political majority, with their nepotism, their political games, their laundering of hundreds of billions and their constant blame-seeking, have made it impossible for us to have meaningful public discourse, to have real politics. the economic shock of the transition failed to create sustainable economic policies, and the breakdown of solidarity plunged millions into desperate poverty, deprived them of their livelihoods, and made them victims of punitive social policies - calling into question the social contract itself. yet, november 9th is a day to celebrate with pride, and we hungarians feel our souls warm up after decades. even if we have had failures, it is now our responsibility to make things better. we know this is all part of a process, and we believe there is hope. it is the hope that, as part of a european value-creating community, we can make a reality of what is already being lost.
mr. president, i have to go. my fellow officers. the fact that the president-elect of the european commission, mr juncker, is accused of serious economic abuses, and that this is being reported in the press, is a matter of such gravity that at least a spontaneous debate on the part of the president should be allowed to take place. you've been celebrating for an hour that communism is over, democracy has begun... ( interjection from the floor: why do you say no debate? you were celebrating the end of communism for an hour and the beginning of democracy, so why don't you show us what is the difference between communism and democracy?
some people have come to this debate to claim a weaker europe under the pretext of tax havens. and i, as a hungarian and a social democrat, have come here to ask for a bigger and stronger europe, because we are facing new challenges. there's no question about that. against tax evasion and its toxic effects, we need more europe, better and tighter supervision and indeed transparency, because the people of my city, szeged, are also demanding that there be no exceptions, that if they pay their taxes, the multinationals should do so fairly. but in hungary, for example, the public is not only agitated at this moment, but also because the ban of the president of the tax authority by the united states of america on suspicion of corruption is also disturbing the mood, because the government refuses to recall the president of the tax authority. my answer is that we need a bigger, more disciplined and fairer europe, so that taxes are paid, tax evasion is stopped and tax fraud is tackled together. (the intervener agrees to answer a question referred for a preliminary ruling (article 162 (8) of the rules of procedure). )
that's a two-card answer. i trust mr moscovici and his colleagues to create practices and institutions that do not increase bureaucracy in the european union, but that allow all eu member states to participate on equal terms in shaping our common eu destiny. and i will not support the dutch, luxembourgish or, as the case may be, hungarian examples of tax avoidance. i would like the commission to accept the proposals of the socialist, s&d group and open a new era... (the president cut off the speaker)
it's a two-card draw. i would like to ask mr langen, but mr kyrtsos has the same question: we see that 22 countries in the european union can, almost jointly, do a very bad thing, so why don't we look at the good side of this, whether 28 of us can join together for a good thing. i ask you, do you or your party agree that the european union should also be a tax union?
my fellow officers! so far, the luxembourg case has been the tax evasion thread at the heart of this debate, whereas the phenomenon we have to deal with is much broader than that. lack of transparency, tax evasion, corruption, organized crime are all different strands of the same case. the vat fraud scandal in hungary, the offshore companies in cyprus, the italian organised crime, the embezzlement of eu funds in many member states, all show the seriousness of corruption in the european union and within the member states. a comprehensive and coherent anti-corruption response is needed in the various related cases. the anti-corruption report we adopted earlier this year is scandalous in that it lacks a chapter 29 which examines the european union itself. a comprehensive anti-corruption strategy is needed in europe. a european prosecutor-general is needed to investigate corruption cases in the meantime, olaf needs to be strengthened and misappropriation of eu funds must be severely sanctioned in the member states. if we do not act decisively in the fight against corruption, we will not be able to defend our core european values and we will lose the trust of european citizens.
in writing. the fight against tax fraud is one of the main tax challenges facing eu member states today. effective measures to this end can improve the efficiency of tax collection and play an important role in increasing tax revenues, as a higher rate of vat collection is one of the possible tax consolidation measures. in the present difficult period, in which all the countries of the european union are making considerable efforts to consolidate public finances effectively, i can only welcome any initiative which can support these efforts, whether on the revenue or expenditure side of the budget. since vat fraud is such a sophisticated international crime that damages public finances, i believe that effective cooperation between the tax authorities of the member states is essential to combat it. i would therefore welcome a greater effort by the eu institutions to organise activities that would contribute positively to this cooperation. i believe that the introduction of a rapid reaction mechanism would have an impact on the duration of the approval process of special measures implemented by member states to combat tax fraud and would increase the likelihood of effectively addressing this type of action.
in writing. i don't want to deal with the events of the past, but i want to see that in the next four and a half years we finally find not legal answers to the past, but political answers to the future. the previous commission always answered my questions with the words 'that's the rule'. however, if the public opinion on a case is that it's not right, why don't we change it? it is the task of the commission, the european parliament and the council to find the real problems. for example, it is not right that member states treat taxation in the eu so differently. another good example is food, where vat is 0% in some member states and 27% in hungary. as for corruption, i think the commissioner for competition should take the lead in reducing corruption by all means and also be aware that it does not always come from the level of corporations, but sometimes governments can be involved in corruption.
mr president of the court of auditors, dear commissioner georgieva, dear colleagues! i would like to begin by thanking the european court of auditors for the report it has put on our table. i'd like to discuss it with some of my colleagues. it is a fair proposal and one which enables the european parliament to work. secondly, i would like to remind you of the two most important figures that president caldeira was pleased to repeat: in the year 2013 we spent 148 billion euros under the budget of the european union. of this, some 4.7% was not in compliance with the rules, so this is about eur 7 billion of expenditure in the category of error. we have a lot of work to do in this regard, of course, in the discharge procedure that is now beginning, to look at the reasons for this, but at the same time there is a very, very serious problem that we talk about very little. and this is nothing more than the fact that of this amount, almost four times the €7 billion that was wrongly spent, the €25-30 billion is the money that the european commission does not pay for cohesion development that was properly implemented. this means that the budget of the european union is completely unfounded.
she must be a woman. in your speech you said quite literally that the citizens expect us, the european commission, to demonstrate that we are looking after their money. how do you think, madam commissioner, that the people can believe this when your commission and the european commission are headed by a man who has been proven, admitted, to have made secret agreements as finance minister in his own country, luxembourg, with foreign multinationals to pay virtually no taxes in luxembourg, thereby taking a lot of money out of the pockets of his own countrymen and putting his own small and mediumsized enterprises in a very bad competitive position? goat for cabbage? is this the kind of man that people, citizens, trust with their money? do you personally think you should resign? and a professional question. if everything was as good as mr juncker said... (the president cut off the speaker)
i would ask my colleagues to use the blue card for what it is: to ask a question and get an answer. i'm not going to let you do this. do you wish to respond to this comment, since no question has been asked?
i'm telling congresswoman dodds that there's no way to get a green card in the "catch the eye" process, and you've already been given the floor, you've made a statement in the process, so there's no way i can give the floor again. please understand that.
i have received a motion for a resolution tabled in accordance with rule 123 (2) of the rules of procedure. i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place on thursday 13 november 2014. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
the next item is the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the turkish actions causing tension within the exclusive economic zone of the republic of cyprus (2014(2921(rsp)).
in writing. the gas wealth near cyprus is estimated to be between 140 and 200 billion cubic metres, which is also significant for the security of european supply. although it is not yet decided which route will be used to market the extracted gas at the end of the decade, either via an lng export terminal or via the feeding into a regional gas network, there is no doubt that the eastern mediterranean region can play an important role in reducing the volume of european gas imports. the current trends, project plans, point in the direction that the need for diversification of resources in central and eastern europe will not be met by one large alternative project, as was thought until the demise of the nabucco project, but by a number of smaller opportunities of a large scale, which can be combined to provide diversified supply. that is why it is important to exploit all the opportunities in europe. i support the continuation of the dialogue between the greek cypriot and turkish cypriot communities. a long-term settlement can only be achieved through peaceful means.
in writing. the un has declared the situation in south sudan a level 3 humanitarian crisis, the most serious. the situation is catastrophic, with 1.9 million people having fled their homes since december 2013 in the mainstream data alone, and nearly half a million of them having arrived as refugees in neighbouring countries. a million people are in danger of starving to death if we don't make some moves. despite the eu's substantial financial support to the region, aid is regularly attacked and aid workers are at risk. this is why today's debate is necessary and timely, as international actors must take immediate action to prevent the situation from worsening further.
what we are talking about here is much more important than this interest, because what is at stake is the protection, strengthening and extension of the four fundamental european values. i want to reassure anyone who thinks that we need to protect our community from some kind of immigrant flood. no, i'm not going. this is also the case when, for example, a citizen of a european union member state travels to a country in the european economic area. yes, there too, social rights will be granted to eu citizens. so we're talking about protecting our shared values, and we're also providing a powerful demonstration that even populist governments should not have an excuse or an opportunity to undermine our existing core values just because they think they might not like someone personally. and by the way, the european court of justice's decision was about judging on an individual basis, not in general.
in writing. as you know, the proposal is that as from 1 january 2014 the efta states will also participate in the actions related to the following budget line entered in the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014: - 04 03 01 03. title: free movement of workers and coordination of social security systems and measures relating to migrant workers, including migrant workers from third countries. iceland, liechtenstein, norway and switzerland will thus also become partners, and there will be the opportunity for closer european cooperation to promote the free movement of workers. at the same time, it is necessary to ensure that, following the judgment of the european court of justice in case c-333/13 of 11 november 2014, the free movement of inactive eu citizens who are not seeking work cannot be unduly and unjustifiably restricted.
recalling the soviet invasion of poland 75 years ago, we can with historical clarity ascertain the responsibility of the totalitarian soviet empire for the outbreak of world war ii, the cruel oppression of the peoples and countries under its yoke and the final division of europe. the fall of the berlin wall 25 years ago, together with the lessons of the ukrainian crisis, serve as a reminder and a stimulus for us to look to the future of ukraine, as well as the republic of moldova, in the european community of values and unity, in the european community of values and solidarity, in democracy, the rule of law, national sovereignty, collective human and minority rights. for the romanians, russians and gagauz in moldova, as well as the ukrainians, transcarpathian hungarians and crimean tatars, a united europe can be the answer. let's vote on the association agreement.
in writing. the association agreement between the european union and moldova, negotiated between 2010 and 2013, will create new opportunities for trade and economic growth and will directly benefit moldovan businesses and citizens. the eu will benefit from smoother trade and better investment conditions with moldova. it saddens me to see that russia continues to use trade to weaken the region, including moldova. it imposes various import bans on moldovan products, in violation of russia's commitments under the world trade organization. the eu also expresses its solidarity with the moldovan people by signing the association agreement. however, eu citizens, particularly farmers, are also affected by russian import bans. for example, hungarian agricultural exports suffer losses of eur 80 million annually due to the ban. that's a loss of 70 million forints a day. the eur 344 million that the commission has so far released for compensation is not enough to help eu producers. on the other hand, it is outrageous that the commission intends to take this money out of the agricultural crisis fund. this would result in a reduction in direct payments next year. i therefore demand that the commission immediately provide the necessary funds from budgetary reserves and assigned revenue, as well as from non-agricultural resources, to compensate european union farmers.
in writing. - on 7 october 2014, the commission adopted a proposal for a decision to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for greece to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant by sprider stores in the 47th nace rev. 2 economic sector (retail trade other than motor vehicles and motorcycles) as a result of the economic crisis. the greek authorities will also provide personalised services co-financed by the egf to up to 550 young people not in employment, education or training (neets) who were under 30 years of age at the time of application, given that the redundancies will take place in nuts level 2 regions eligible under the youth employment initiative. this is the 15th application to be examined under the 2014 budget and concerns the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 7 290 900 from the egf for the benefit of greece. it concerns a total of 1311 beneficiaries. the request was submitted to the commission on 6 june 2014 and supplemented by additional information by 1 august 2014. the commission has concluded that the conditions for a financial contribution from the egf are met in the application, in accordance with the relevant provisions of the egf regulation. the coordinated package of personalised services to be provided to redundant workers includes the following actions: career guidance and career planning support, training, retraining and vocational training, assistance for business start-ups, financial support for job search and training and mobility support. the fidesz-kdnp delegation supports the motion in solidarity. it is important that dismissed workers receive appropriate support for their reintegration into the labour market.
my fellow members of the house of representatives! of course i did not vote for the association agreement with moldova, and i will not vote for another stage of colonization, another stage of market-making for multinational companies. it was a shock to me that my colleague tőke, a hungarian from transylvania, said that he would vote for it because it would be a solution for the national communities of europe. i couldn't put a yellow card on it because they wouldn't give me a word, but i'm telling him and everyone that's not the case. it is not a solution, because then we could have been talking about the autonomy of the szekler, we could have been talking about the self-determination of transylvania. the so-called united or unifying europe has not solved this either, nor has it solved the shameful venice decrees in the uplands, in what is now slovakia. the shameful citizenship cases. the serbian accession negotiations did not bring autonomy, self-determination to the south, and no matter how much they talk about ukraine, they never talk about the right of self-determination of the transcarpathian hungarian community.
in writing. - i vote in favour of the adoption of the parliament's report on the association agreement between the european union and moldova. by concluding this association agreement, we also express our solidarity with the moldovan people. the russian embargo on moldovan products has caused very serious damage to the country's economy, especially agriculture. the eu is in the same boat with moldova in this respect. the damage caused by the russian agricultural embargo, which was introduced on 7 august, has already reached eur 1 billion at eu level. hungarian agricultural exports suffer annual losses of eur 80 million as a result of the ban. the eur 344 million that the commission has so far spent on compensation is not enough to help european producers. it is unacceptable that the commission intends to take this money out of the agricultural crisis fund. on the one hand, direct payments are the main source of income for european farmers. a small decrease, even a few euros per hectare, can mean a serious loss of income for them. on the other hand, it is not right to put the burden of a trade and economic problem arising from a foreign policy conflict on the farmers. the commission cannot expect farmers to bear the costs of the eu-russia conflict alone. i therefore demand that the commission immediately provide the necessary sum of money to compensate european union farmers from budgetary reserves and assigned revenue, as well as from non-agricultural budgetary resources, instead of the crisis fund.
in writing. - the association agreement between the eu and moldova is of paramount importance as it strengthens moldova's european perspective. the union shall contribute to the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance in accordance with the union's macro-financial assistance programmes. the eu has also been active in the fight against corruption and organised crime, and has been active in the fight against organised crime.
written. - on 3 october 2014, the commission adopted a proposal for a decision to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) in favour of ireland to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant by andersen ireland limited in nace rev. 2 division 32 (gold and jewellery). in addition, the irish authorities will provide personalised services co-financed by the egf to a maximum of 138 young people not in employment, education or training (neets) who were under 25 years of age at the time of application, given that the redundancies are taking place in the nuts level 2 region of south and east ireland (ie02) eligible under the youth employment initiative. this is the 14th application to be examined under the 2014 budget and is for a total of eur 1 501 200 from the egf for ireland. the application concerns a total of 276 beneficiaries. the request was submitted to the commission on 16 may 2014 and supplemented by additional information until 11 july 2014. the commission has concluded that the conditions for granting a financial contribution from the egf are met, in accordance with the relevant provisions of the egf regulation. the coordinated package of personalised services to be provided to redundant workers includes the following actions: career guidance and career planning support, egf training support, training and secondary education programmes, higher education programmes, skillsnet training support, entrepreneurship/self-employment support, income support including contribution to training costs. the fidesz-kdnp delegation supports the motion in solidarity. it is important that dismissed workers receive appropriate support for their reintegration into the labour market.
mr president, i would like to address three issues in a little more detail, albeit for a minute: the issue of acceleration, dialogue and clarity. but the debate has also raised the possibility that one of the reasons for the delays, one of the reasons for the delays in the programmes, is that the european commission does not have sufficient financial resources, so i would like to ask the commissioner for clear guidance, do you have money or no money? but the other thing is that the commissioner has already given some indications, some indications, on how to speed up the process in the member states. i hope that you will not only do this here in parliament, but also ensure that the competent authorities and organising institutions receive these guidelines. and dialogue is very often the victim of acceleration, and i hope that the commission has the means, indeed i ask: does it have the means to take into account whether, in the process of acceleration, dialogue is not lost among those concerned? and then finally, there's the cleanliness. unfortunately, in my country, hungary, acceleration always results in a politically saturated and usually close to the government, receiving resources. can they control that? thank you so much for the opportunity.
madam president, i think it is unnecessary to stress in this house that the financial situation of ukraine, the economic situation of ukraine is on rather shaky footing. although we were very pleased to accept the association agreement with ukraine recently, i believe that it also entails responsibility, because the european union has entered into an association relationship with a very large country and the problems are certainly great. the approaching winter, however, suggests very serious problems with energy supply in ukraine, and i wonder whether the european institutions have a proper energy security strategy in place, which serves the energy security not only of the european member states but also of the associated member state, ukraine. it's better to speak up now than to fight a humanitarian catastrophe later.
in romania, the ceausescu dictatorship collapsed 25 years ago. the greatest gift of this year's jubilee is the election of klaus johannis, a democratic liberal politician from transylvania, as president of the state. over the past quarter century, former communists have returned to power several times. victor ponta's electoral defeat as socialist presidential candidate dealt a decisive blow to the national communist restoration and paved the way for the continuation of democratic transformations. the election was the obama effect. just like temesvár 25 years ago, this year too, transylvania, a multiethnic and multi-religious country, played a decisive role in the change of regime. the hungarians and germans persecuted by ceausescu, along with the majority of their romanian compatriots, all voted for klaus johannis. hope has returned to romania!
madam president, i would like to draw your attention to point (w) of the report, which clearly shows that the income disparities between the member states would not necessarily be reduced, as we hungarians, for example, were promised when we were asked whether we wanted to join the union. so, instead of these differences diminishing, they are actually increasing. point w indicates that there are five times the income differences, which is about right. a hungarian nurse, fireman, factory worker, or shop assistant earns at least five times less than, say, a similar job in austria, 30 miles [50 km] away. my question is very simple, and i hope that the hungarian people, and the people of the peripheral countries, will finally get a straight answer. i would ask the commission and the council representative what specific measures they wish to take to reduce or eliminate the burning income gap between the countries of the centre and the periphery, the old and the new member states, the east and the west.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it has become clear that the europe 2020 strategy has not yet been able to raise employment levels, whereas in america, which has already emerged from the crisis, the unemployment rate has fallen to 6%. in the european union, unemployment has fallen by only two percentage points to 10.7% in the recent period. the european parliament resolution underlines the need to shift the tax burden towards more sustainable forms of taxation in order to stimulate growth and job creation, i.e. the economically more powerful, larger players must also shoulder their share of the tax burden. i think that's an important message. hungary has followed this path since 2010 and the employment rate has increased by 3% and unemployment has fallen from 10% to 7,6%. i believe that the message of the resolution should be taken into account by all member states and the commission, because the citizens are the losers of the crisis and it must be brought to an end.
i agree with the questioner that since the financial and economic crisis, the number of citizens exposed to unemployment and poverty has increased significantly. we need to use all the tools available to us in each of the eu policies to reduce unemployment. one of the breakthroughs in job creation, in my view, is agriculture. we need to increase global food production by 70 percent by 2050 to feed all of us. the european union has the natural and economic resources to take the lead in this process. sustainable farming practices and responsible use of resources also offer the potential for substantial production increases. agriculture and related industries, such as wood and furniture production or energy production from biomass and biogas, can create many permanent and seasonal jobs. we must therefore use all the means available to support agriculture. on the one hand, eu aid, in particular direct aid, must be kept at a level. on the other hand, undue financial and administrative burdens on farmers and businesses should be reduced. new unjustified animal welfare, food safety or environmental restrictions such as the increase of the ecological focus area should not be imposed. thirdly, the eu must protect european farmers from the dumping of agricultural goods from third countries. free trade agreements may be concluded which do not result in a reduction in the competitiveness of european farmers.
in writing. all my colleagues agree that one of europe's greatest tasks and obligations is to eradicate youth unemployment as soon as possible. in the union, more than five million young people are unemployed, and in hungary the figure is over 27%. in the newly joined countries - and in my own country as well - one of the most pressing problems is also linked to youth unemployment: economic emigration due to lack of prospects. in hungary, nearly half a million young people have already decided to emigrate. mass migration causes not only emotional but also social and economic hardships. and what they may not see and understand in western europe is not just the countries involved. according to the latest figures from the future of work research institute in bonn, five million of the citizens of the central and eastern european countries that joined the union since 2004 are now living in the western eu member states. researchers believe that this process can adversely affect the health and quality of life of the native population. the free movement of labour is an important asset of the european community and must be safeguarded. but we cannot allow, europe cannot allow, that some of its countries are brought to their knees by the forced economic migration of their own citizens. as a social democrat representative, i have therefore launched the homecoming programme in hungary and i call on the european community to extend it. we must find a common solution, because this is a common european problem.
in writing. the hague convention on jurisdictional arrangements applies to exclusive jurisdiction clauses concluded in civil and commercial matters. in the course of these proceedings, any dispute arising between the parties in relation to specified matters shall be settled in the courts of a specified state. the widespread adoption of the convention would provide greater legal certainty with regard to exclusive international jurisdiction agreements. it would thereby facilitate and make trade between the participating states more efficient. hungary's foreign economic relations have strengthened in recent years. a predictable commercial legal environment is essential for a successful continuation. that is why the convention needs to be approved.
written. - on 14 october 2014, the commission adopted a new proposal for a decision to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund for finland to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant by stx finland oy in sector 30 (manufacture of other vehicles) of the nace rev. 2 economic sectors as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation. the application concerns a total of 565 beneficiaries. the finnish authorities argue that the global maritime sector has changed dramatically in recent years and that in such a global environment the eu market share in shipbuilding has decreased sharply. the european cradle of modern shipbuilding has been largely taken over by asian countries with low labour costs. according to the finnish authorities, after the closure of stx, the unemployment rate in the rauma region is expected to increase by more than 2 percentage points from 11,1% to 13,1%. the coordinated package of personalised services to be provided to redundant workers includes the following actions: counselling and other preparatory measures, employment and business services at a single point of service, training and retraining, business promotion, training and expert services, company survey, salary allowances, travel, accommodation and relocation reimbursement. the fidesz-kdnp delegation supports the motion in solidarity. it is important that dismissed workers receive appropriate support for their reintegration into the labour market.
in writing. - on 24 october 2014, the commission adopted a proposal for a decision to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund for france to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant by the public limited company gad in economic sector 10 (food production) of nace rev. 2 as a result of the global financial and economic crisis. the gross turnover of gad in 2010 was eur 123 million, but in 2012/13 it was only eur 107 million. while the company still recorded a profit of eur 16 million in 2008, it became loss-making in 2009 and finally realised a loss of eur 20 million in both 2012 and 2013. the company's gross revenue fell from eur 495,1 million in 2008 to eur 445,8 million in 2009 and this decline proved irreversible. on 27 february 2013, the company was placed under bankruptcy proceedings after accumulated losses amounting to eur 65 million between 2010 and june 2013. the personalised services to be provided to redundant workers comprise the following single measure: advice and guidance to redundant workers by a team of experts (cellule de reclassement). the fidesz-kdnp delegation supports the motion in solidarity. it is important that dismissed workers receive appropriate support for their reintegration into the labour market.
in writing. i voted in favour of the motion, as i believe that the member states' reporting on employment and poverty is not perfect. unfortunately, this will remain the case until there is a uniform, binding and effective reporting system. in some countries, such as hungary, part-time employment of 4 to 6 hours, public servants working for eur 160 per month or nationals working abroad are also considered to be fully employed. with tricks like this, we will only achieve the europe 2020 strategy's goal in statistics. the resolution deals with, among other things, the civil controls that i consider important (inviting the commission to involve these organisations in the whole consultation process), the eradication of child poverty, the alleviation of youth unemployment and the use of an environmentally friendly approach.
my fellow members of parliament! i'm here to inform you that our session is now in session. first, allow me to make a few remarks on yesterday's minutes. the minutes of the meeting have been distributed. i ask my fellow members if anyone has any comments on the minutes? i see that there is none, so i declare the minutes to be accepted. we will then move on to our next item on the agenda, which is item 1 of the afternoon partsession: budget 2015: conciliation committee outcome is the title of the debate. as my colleagues in the house of commons know very well, we are in the aftermath of fruitless negotiations. the european parliament and the council were unable to reach an agreement and left the negotiating table without being able to reach an agreement either on the additional resources for 2014 or on the necessary and sufficient items for 2015. i'll give the floor to the chairman of the committee first, and the chairman has three minutes.
i'll close this discussion. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
the european parliament wanted to achieve the full adoption of all budgetary amendments for 2014 in the conciliation negotiations. this would have raised the payment levels for 2014 by eur 4.7 billion to cover the outstanding invoices already submitted by member states in cohesion policy. if this is not ensured, an unpaid bill of up to eur 26 billion could accumulate by the end of 2014. we would have paid out €6 billion more than the council in 2015, for a total of €146.4 billion, to have enough resources to pay out the remaining cohesion programmes that were due to close in 2015, among other things. in the ep's reading, our amendments, confirmed by the people's party and then the rapporteur, increased the funding for convergence areas by eur 4 billion. the lack of liquidity on the payment side also threatens the implementation of other programmes: horizon 2020 calls may have a reduced pre-financing rate, delays in calls for tender and this may cause liquidity problems for universities, research centres and other institutions that have won the calls. in the case of erasmus, it may mean reduced pre-financing, which may reduce the number of people who can afford to go abroad to study with this scholarship, as they have to cover a significant part of their costs. raising the ep would have solved these problems. if the 2015 union budget is not adopted by 31 december 2014, the next year may start with 1/12 of this year. with tight deadlines and a willingness to compromise responsibly, the european budget for next year can be drawn up in time.
the following point is inserted after point b8-0039/2014 of the debate on the question for oral answer to the commission on combating violence against women, by iratxe garcía pérez, on behalf of the committee on women's rights and equal opportunities (o-000080/2014 (2014/2916(rsp))
indeed, it is a social problem that is found in the most diverse places that we find in our daily lives. we have a long list of things to do, and besides talking about it on november 25th every year, it would be good to take action in this regard, because these women are waiting for us to help them. i'm giving commissioner jourová the opportunity to speak, and you, commissioner, will have a few minutes. hopefully, we can find a solution.
madam president, you walk down the street in a fancy suit with a pricey watch in your hand after dark, you're liable to be attacked and robbed. i mean, how weird would it be if the police released a crime-prevention video like that? you publish similar stories about female victims and rape. now, unfortunately, in my own country, there's a video of this kind of incident. i suggest a more effective and fair video. a male police officer, a camera, and all he says is, if you commit rape, you will be found, you will be prosecuted and you will be sent to prison, because rape is a serious crime.
in writing. violence against women is present in all societies, whether physical, psychological or sexual. a recent report by the fundamental rights agency shows shocking data in this area. the survey found that one in three women had experienced sexual and/or physical violence since the age of 15. it is important to note that these data do not refer to third countries but to eu member states. violence against women has a serious impact on individuals and on society. yet, in most cases, the victims choose to remain silent. surveys in this area show that there are many more cases in reality than the justice statistics say. this urgent problem needs to be addressed at eu level, as violence against women is a violation of fundamental rights.
sexual violence and violence against women are still a major social problem that permeates our daily lives, not only at home, behind closed walls, but also in the workplace, in public places, on the internet and even in schools, but despite the fact that these cases are common, they are often only revealed in the rarest or most extreme cases. the prevalence of violent acts is confirmed by the results of various research and police statistics, but it is certain that many cases remain in obscurity, that the intimidated victims do not dare to go public, that many of them do not even dare to admit that what they have experienced is not a natural part of everyday life and that it should be dealt with as strictly as possible. i think that we need to take this to a higher level, we need to have the political will to take this problem seriously at both the social and eu level. the commission's proposal is to set up a european network of national experts to assess the impact of the eu's policies on the environment.
mr president, i have already tried to study this question in depth and i asked the commission a question at the beginning of july and i found a number of aspects of the answer very interesting. we are talking about 27 directives which regulate this matter, but it is the member states' responsibility to transpose the directives into national law, and indeed it is the member states' responsibility to monitor their implementation. i feel like this is the commission's toolbox. i therefore urge everyone to develop a strategy by 2020 and beyond to make the european union a true union of health and safety at work and a true union of safety and health at work.
mr. president, dear commissioner, there are very few lawyers in hungary who protect the rights of workers, but i just received a text message from one of them on the subject. she mainly deals with victims of violations by multinational companies, and writes that our employees do not dare to go to the sick list, they work sick, they are afraid at work, they are not allowed to eat properly, they cannot even go to the toilet, they cannot move away from the tape, as women they have to carry huge burdens. all for a starvation wage, which we know is one-fifth of what the west pays. what do you know about this, madam commissioner, and what do you want to do to ensure that this slavery is abolished in hungary and in other so-called new member states or peripheral countries of the european union?
mr president, i just want to ask why you and your colleagues pretend to give catch-the-eye opportunities to people, and you keep them here at 10 o’clock in the evening. this is absolutely not fair. out of 751 people, there are 12 who are taking part in this important debate, and even they are not allowed to have catch-the-eye opportunities. yet you let the commission representative talk on and on and on ... (the president cut off the speaker)
in writing. meps ask, among other things, how the european commission will enforce equal opportunities for people with disabilities when they are denied reasonable accommodation. this is discrimination under the un convention on the rights of the child. this is particularly relevant as the eu's commitment and actions to date will be examined by the un convention monitoring panel next year, as the eu is a party to the convention. i would like to hear about a concrete action plan in this regard, because i believe that ensuring the principle of reasonable accommodation is a key issue!
mr president, commissioner, i hope i am not making a big mistake when i say that it is part of european practice that if there is a problem in the banking system, we pour money into it with a fire-extinguishing syringe, but there are certainly institutions which are concerned about the use of this money. i want to focus on one issue, and that is that if a bank is owned by a government and it receives capital from the government, for example, the european commission usually proposes restructuring, reducing spending or some kind of spin-off. however, some opinions argue that the european central bank interprets these public funds as private investment. i ask you, is there a contradiction in this, and if so, how can it be resolved?
in writing. the €300 billion jobs, growth and investment package announced by the new european commission is a guarantee that the european union will emerge stronger from the biggest economic and social divide in its history. the investment package also offers hope to the nearly half a million unemployed hungarian citizens. by working to overthrow the new european commission, fidesz meps are saying no to new jobs, to the start of economic growth. the statement by fidesz member gáll-pelcz ildikó last week that they will vote on the motion of no confidence in the president of the european commission exposed fidesz. they're not only willing to cooperate with jobbik, but they're also supporting the views of european extremists. the motion of no confidence in the commission president, jean-claude juncker, is expected to be voted on by only the far-right meps, apart from fidesz. if juncker and the new european commission fail, the last chance to kick-start growth is lost. i suggest to my fidesz colleagues that they finally keep in mind the strengthening of the european union and hungary within it, as well as the real interests of the citizens.
mr. president, i have to go. thank you for the word. the key issue at the forthcoming conferences is whether the united states and china, the two biggest polluters, can be persuaded to make a real commitment and to deliver. if it's just to make the mood better, it's not going to do anything. the union is at the forefront of reducing carbon emissions. you set an example, that's right. but it also sets unrealistic and unrealistic goals. climate change is a global issue. that means it can't be solved locally. the european union is responsible for 10 to 12% of emissions, and this will fall to 4 to 5% by 2030. so really, the only way to make progress in this area is on a global scale. it should be recognised that the commitment of the member states also means that they determine their energy mix. for example, some countries are promoting nuclear power as a clean source of energy. of course, it would be good to have more green, renewable energy, but we cannot ignore the costs. yes, we who say we represent the interests of the european population never talk about the issue of energy poverty here, that for many families in europe the cost of energy is a huge item, so you cannot exclude the cost from this issue. thank you so much for listening.
in writing. in 2009, the european union unilaterally committed to reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 20% by 2020 compared to 1990 levels. the european council of 23 and 24 october 2014 committed to an intra-eu emission reduction of at least 40% by 2030 compared to 1990. for the first time since the united states and china announced their commitment in november 2014, i see hope that we can effectively tackle climate change through a real international partnership. although the target dates set by our partners are far off (2025 and 2030 respectively) and their performance can only be measured after many years, there is a chance that the european union has played a pioneering role in the initiative. this does not mean that europe can also bring in its competitive disadvantage. regardless of these commitments, the us energy price is expected to remain well below the european average for decades to come. in china, we have a very different competitive advantage, where the price of human resources is much lower. i am confident that as a result of the ttip negotiations, europe's leadership in green technologies will be even stronger than it is today, and european investors will be able to achieve significant successes in the us market.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the house of representatives, according to the european commission, the european union is responsible for 11% of global greenhouse gas emissions and is well on track to meet its own reduction commitments. with its seal of approval and the targets of the recently sanctioned 2030 climate and energy framework, europe can therefore once again sit confidently at the negotiating table at the un climate conference in december. but will there be other good students in lima, or will the eu once again be alone in the international community? the fight against climate change will only be successful in the future if other developed countries and currently large developing emitters make ambitious commitments comparable to those of the eu before the 2015 paris conference. the new international convention should be applicable, enabling, equitable and legally binding for both developed and developing countries. the union cannot solve the global emissions reduction deficit on its own. and while pursuing his own ambitious goals, he cannot exploit his own industry indefinitely. we need to look back for a moment and wait for the others. with the historic announcement by the united states and china, hopefully, europe's followers will soon be within sight.
in writing. - the ecb should continue to provide substantial support to risk monitoring and analysis work, drawing on its statistical expertise, through its macroprudential overview, which provides detailed statistical information on the various aspects of systemic risks affecting national and eu financial systems. in order to address the challenges posed by the changing nature of risks in the eu financial sector, the ecb should continue to participate in the review and further development of the european systemic risk board's risk indicators. by providing statistical information on the risks and vulnerabilities of the financial system, the risk warning system is a key communication tool and an important element in meeting public accountability requirements. i also consider that an exchange of accurate information and effective cooperation between the authorities is essential and therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the amendment, as the ssm regulation entrusts the ecb with specific tasks relating to policies relating to the prudential supervision of credit institutions, for the performance of which these amendments are essential. however, it should be underlined that the european union should minimise the continuation of parallel activities while maximising transparency. european citizens have a legitimate expectation that both the member states and the eu institutions will strive for cost-efficiency and a reduction in red tape. a good example of this is that the same data will only have to be collected once under this amendment. however, it should be noted that the transfer of confidential data will need to be accompanied by adequate protection at all levels, including with the receiving authorities.
in writing. - monetary policy has operated in conditions of continuous but somewhat moderating financial diversification and difficult challenges. we have had many discussions with mr draghi at the econ committee, where we have heard good results. despite these results, i believe that further efforts will be needed to avoid a negative interaction between problem countries, different economic prospects and the vulnerability of banks at member state level. further progress in the establishment of banking union can of course make a major contribution to overcoming these obstacles, and, if necessary, there can obviously be talk of sanctions in line with mrs swinburne's recommendations. i welcome the report and have voted in favour of it.
in writing. i shall vote in favour of the motion for a resolution. we need to act now, because climate change is already causing serious problems for every country. for example, in hungary, excessive rainfall and flooding, as well as frequent alternations between lack of rainfall and drought, have become common. as regards the objectives set out in the proposal, i would like to draw attention to the following: on the one hand, the eu's strict commitments are worthless unless other economies, which are much more polluting and emit more carbon than the eu economy, commit themselves to at least the same level of commitment. the eu negotiating delegation should therefore demand that it only commits itself to stricter commitments and reductions in greenhouse gas emissions if other economies responsible for the earth's greenhouse gas emissions, such as the united states or china, do the same. on the other hand, the role of renewable energy production and energy efficiency in households and industry should be given much greater prominence. the eu must refrain from any action that hinders the use of renewable energy. for example, we should not restrict the planting of useful varieties of trees that provide biomass feedstock, the production of first-generation bioethanol from surplus crops or the promotion of combustible biomass plants. thirdly, we must refrain from introducing any kind of accounting system in agriculture. this would place an unnecessary burden on farmers and member states. and it's also hard to measure carbon emissions here. emission reductions in this area are already secured.
in writing. - according to the european commission, the european union is responsible for 11% of global greenhouse gas emissions and is well on track to meet its own reduction commitments. the fight against climate change will only be successful in the future if other developed countries and currently large developing emitters make ambitious commitments comparable to those of the eu before the 2015 paris conference. the union cannot solve the global emissions reduction deficit on its own. following the historic announcement by the us and china, it is hoped that they will soon catch up with europe in their emission reduction commitments.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, first of all let me thank the high representative for sharing with us her thoughts about the thorny question of the israeli-palestine conflict and about the recognition of the state of palestine as part of the two-state solution. thank you, madam high representative, for expressing your openness to note the results of this debate and to take it into consideration in your further steps. i especially welcome your call for a united and strong message coming from this very chamber, but let me just tell you that the united and strong message that you, madam, expect from us could have come forward more easily had we had the opportunity to debate a resolution with this debate. the fact that we cannot debate a resolution seems to be a result of a slight majority at the time on monday but i very much hope that the result of the debate will change the minds of many of those who voted to remove the resolution from the table. i understand what my colleagues on the right are saying: that we have to do a lot for a comprehensive peace settlement, we have to help both the palestinians and the israeli side in regard to going back to the negotiating table and achieving a lasting result, and i understand that we are far from it. there is a lot to do. nobody denies that and we greens very much hope that the eu will be among the most important partners to help bring that about. but for the life of me i cannot understand how that can be hampered, how that can be objected to, by actually recommending to the member states recognition of the palestine state on the basis of the 1967 borders now. it is just not me that does not understand that. let me offer you a quote: ʽrecognition of palestine would help to preserve the two-state solution’, which is the policy of all responsible political parties in europe. ‘it would reward and encourage moderation’ on both sides. this does not come from what my conservative friends sometimes call the loony left; it does not come from a raving anti-semitic extreme right. it actually it comes from sir vincent fean who served as british consul-general in jerusalem for four years. i cannot get a higher authority on that except possibly alon liel, a former director-general of the israeli ministry of foreign affairs, who shares these thoughts. if we are worried, rightly, that the european union is becoming lame, then actually we should be worried because we are making it lame, unless we vote immediately for the recognition of palestine. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – i am not sure what kind of answer you are expecting from me on that one, as britain and france are actually member states of the european union, represented here in this very chamber. that is one thing. the other thing is that, at the end of the day, if 135 states have already recognised the state of palestine and this did not increase the violence, why would recognition by a few more member states of the european union do that? i cannot understand why it should.
blue-card question. – it is really horrifying to hear all these people talking about israel as a rule-of-law state. could you please tell me what israel has to do with the rule of law when every now and then they keep killing innocent civilians, including children? what do they have to do with the rule of law when they rob other people’s land, in violation of all the united nations and other international law regulations? they keep building settlements; they have summary killing and summary demolition of people’s homes. what does it have to do with the rule of law? sir, would you please tell me what you mean by the rule of law, and why you support israel, the state of child killers and land robbers?
dear officer and fellow members of parliament! since the first intifada, in 2000, 125 israeli children have been killed in this bloody conflict, and 1,450 palestinian children have been murdered by the jewish state. you call hamas a terrorist group. i ask you if it is logical to conclude that if hamas is a terrorist organization in your view, then the jewish state can be called a terrorist state without further ado. the question is, how long will the european union want to be associated with a terrorist state? i ask you, officer, do you not see the time has come for us to at least suspend our associate partnership with israel, which is without a doubt a terrorist state that murders children and steals land continuously. thank you very much.
in writing. i support the efforts of high representative mogherini to ensure that the eu finally plays a substantive role, commensurate with its international weight, in a lasting middle east peace settlement. to be effective and credible in this, the eu's unity and impartiality are essential. the main challenge at present is to put an end to violence and acts of terrorism and to create the political conditions for peace negotiations, in which recognition of palestinian statehood is an important means, but not the end. recognition can only serve the cause of lasting peace if it breaks the logic of hamas terror. if not, we can continue to expect further acts of terrorism that fuel a vicious cycle of violence, and on the other hand, hamas tactics that deny the palestinian government a meaningful negotiating partner and effective governance. the time gained by postponing our resolution on recognition should be used by europe, in conjunction with the international community and at the forefront of its efforts, to eliminate these very circumstances and to reduce the threat of terrorism. in the absence of political conditions, eu recognition could prove counterproductive not only for the peace process: as a hungarian representative, i must point out that it could also provide ammunition for extremist, neo-nazi political forces in some member states, typically in central and eastern europe, which support it purely on anti-semitic grounds and thus damage the perception of the palestinian cause. i would be glad if better preparation for the recognition of a palestinian state and more effective action against terrorism could also help to deal with this particular threat.
thank you very much. i would like to ask the commissioner and my colleagues for their ideas and help on the issue of children's rights, which we all face every day as individuals and as lawyers, and yet we are not accustomed to defining it as a child's rights problem. and this is the situation of children whose parents, often in despair, often in hopelessness, in years of divorce, divorce, child-placement, to put it in words, everyday, kill each other, and the child is often left alone, depressed, vulnerable, in this situation. i also have to say that sometimes, colleagues in the legal profession, as lawyers, are not trying to promote a settlement, but are actually fueling tension. what experiences do they have, what ideas do they have? do you see this as a child rights issue? could some kind of european action be taken to protect and help these forgotten children, using best practices? in fact, many parents would need help in such situations. thank you very much.
mr president the united nations convention on the rights of the child, adopted 25 years ago, has shed new light on the protection of children's rights. i hope that with the help of interpreters, you will hear what i have to say, even though i lost my voice this afternoon. as the anniversary approaches, eu member states must renew their commitment to respect and protect children's rights in practice. that is why my colleague corazza bildt and i have tabled this draft resolution on the subject. after all, missing children, malnutrition, violence against children, and child pornography are all problems that need to be addressed at the highest level. i would also like to draw your attention to another aspect of this problem: i am thinking here of online bullying, which has reached alarming proportions among young people, because the internet world has penetrated even the most protected childrens' rooms. statistics show that half of all teenagers have been victims of such harassment. hungary is setting an example in a number of areas in the field of child protection, i am thinking here of child-friendly justice, the child-protective elements of the new hungarian criminal code, or civil initiatives such as "every child should live well", which makes hot meals available to thousands of children every day. we need to share good examples and practices that can be applied to remedy them, both within and outside the union. thank you, sir.
thank you very much for the floor, mr. president. although there have been many words of concern in this chamber today, i believe that children do not have the capacity to speak up for their own rights, and that is why we have a special responsibility here. and this is not just about the ones i have just mentioned, but i would also like to add to what a colleague of mine said earlier: there are many children in europe who are simply starving. almost a quarter of european children are on the verge of starvation. meanwhile, some member countries are charging horrific taxes on food. in my country, hungary, the government charges 27% on food with sales tax. these are things that we have to take into account when we say we care for children. thank you very much.
vice-president of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. - mr president, i would like to say to the honourable members of the european parliament that upholding the rights of children and preventing and responding to any kind of violence against children will remain a top priority for the eu. this is also witnessed by the fact that, together with our latin american and caribbean friends, we table every year at the un in new york a resolution addressing specific challenges for children. this year it was discrimination and inequality. many challenges remain when it comes to complete fulfilment of the rights of children worldwide and ensuring that the post-2015 world will be a better place for children. nevertheless, we are encouraged by this 25th anniversary, and the almost universal ratification of the un convention on the rights of the child proves that there is an abundance of political will to make a lasting difference. we are also encouraged by the staunch support shown by this house with its resolution on the rights of the child. the commission and the european external action service look forward to close cooperation with parliament in ensuring that the rights of the child are effectively mainstreamed in legislation and policy, as requested by this house.
, in writing. the un convention on the rights of the child has been in force for 25 years. the convention is based on the principle of subsidiarity and is open to all member states. the civil report sent in february 2014 emphasises that the situation of children in hungary has deteriorated significantly between 2006 and 2012 and has become unacceptable. it's worse than the country's economic situation would warrant or the government would like to make it appear. we have a crisis. in hungary, according to a newly published eurostat survey, one third of people (33.5%) are at risk of poverty or social exclusion, an increase of 5 percentage points compared to a year ago (!). according to the latest data from the child poverty charity, 43 percent of all minors are affected by poverty. the first step to breaking out of poverty is education and social services. this system has been gradually dismantled over the last five years: the lowering of the school leaving age from 18 to 16, the nationalization of the school system, the open and direct state-sponsored segregation of schools and the significant reduction and conversion of unemployment benefits into public works, the abolition of housing allowances and free meals for the most deprived children. hungary has been completely dismantled, and in many of its neighbourhoods, conditions are prevailing that we have only seen in the third world. we have a duty to act against child poverty within the union.
i'll close this discussion. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
the following agenda item is the commission statement on the digital single market (2014/2973 ((rsp))
thank you for the opportunity, mr. president. listening to this debate today, what i see first of all is that there is a very strong will in the european parliament to see that we create the most advanced digital single market in europe. i don't want to get into a terminology debate, but if i may suggest that, let's talk about digital union from now on. that would be the right thing for our ambitions, not just a single internal market. but at this point, i have to say that while everyone is pushing for the wider adoption of the internet, in my country, hungary, the hungarian government is currently planning to impose a heavy tax on internet users. i think you'll be paying attention, because the european community cannot allow this. thank you very much.
- thank you for your time, mr. president. my fellow members of parliament! as the commissioner pointed out, we discussed the steel report earlier this year. i was rapporteur for that dossier then and i still think it is important to emphasise some of the long-term priorities for industry initiatives. the key to boosting european steel demand is to improve the business environment and to create a competitive industrial framework. to achieve this goal, two key areas need to change: lower energy prices and reduced regulatory costs, otherwise competitiveness will remain a pipe dream. firstly, as regards the decrease in energy prices, energy costs in the steel industry represent a significant part of the production costs. the rapid implementation of the single european energy market, the completion of missing infrastructures, the elimination of bottlenecks in cross-border capacity and the provision of competing energy sources are essential to reduce energy prices. the implementation of these measures is a priority for the council and the member states. second, reducing regulatory costs for industry. europe must continue to lead in the areas of sustainability, green economy and climate protection. however, this should avoid the risk of carbon leakage and the risk of jeopardising the competitiveness of the steel industry. the reform of the eu ets cannot be allowed to put the best performing companies in the steel industry at a disadvantage. my fellow members of parliament! without these measures, the dismal employment trend in the steel industry of recent years, with a continuous decline in the number of jobs in many european countries, including hungary, would continue. i believe that european measures to protect jobs are still not enough, but i hope that the 300 billion euro juncker plan can also be part of the solution in this area. the reindustrialisation of the european economy can only be achieved through concerted action. thank you for your time, mr. president. (the opponent has consented to answer a question marked with a blue card under article 162 (8) of the rules of procedure. )
that's a two-card answer. thank you very much for your question, mr rübig, which highlights an important problem. and the answer lies in the old wisdom that the right hand should know what the left hand is doing. so we need a coordinated action here, too. i would like to thank the commissioner for his report, which is a very good report, and i would like to thank him for his work in this area. thank you for your time.
mr president every day, 25,000 children die of hunger on earth, and more than 800 million people are hungry or malnourished. a few days ago, the second world conference on nutrition was held in rome, where an action plan was adopted to promote healthy eating and to combat malnutrition. the un working group on sustainable development goals, in its report, sets out as a specific goal, as we heard this morning, the reduction of the number of hungry and malnourished children under five by 40 percent by 2025. this is a task for all of us and it also means that the european commission has to make concrete proposals. i would like to point out that there are many good civil initiatives here in the union for food programmes, for fighting malnutrition, for fighting hunger, and we should pay attention to them. i'm thinking of the "every child lives well" hungarian initiative. i believe that if these initiatives can be promoted internationally, if good practice can be applied, then this can help both outside and inside the eu. thank you, thank you.
thank you very much for this opportunity, mr. president. there's been a lot of numbers in our discussion here today, although i can only support one number, and that's zero. there's no such thing as 40, 20, 30, i don't know what percentage you had to cut. there can be only one goal: zero hungry children. and i ask the honourable member, if the first 1000 days of a child's life are so important to all of us, then the task of this commission in the first 1000 days should be to solve the problem of no child going hungry in europe. in my country alone, hungary, almost one in two children born today faces the prospect of going hungry as children. this is intolerable in rich europe! i suggest that we start giving advice to others after we have cleaned up our own house. thank you very much.
thank you very much. as a criminal lawyer, i used to fantasize about a thief who steals regularly, and then when he gets caught, he gets offended and says that the criminal code is actually so badly regulated about stealing. you know how they say, "take what's not yours from someone else"? there's no specific definition of what's alien, what's to be taken, and people don't take care of their property. they celebrate the man and think he's such an expert in stealing that he should be appointed chairman of the national crime prevention council. i think that something similar happened with mr juncker, which is why i supported the motion to dismiss him or to declare him unfit. i have proposed to support the motion of no confidence in this role.
mr. president, thank you for your time. the rejection of the motion of censure against the commission is a disgrace to the parliamentary majority. yes, mr juncker's crime is that, during his time as prime minister and minister of finance, he turned luxembourg into a tax haven, and in doing so, he stole billions of euros from the countries, the people of the countries, where these companies actually operate. but the shame is for this majority. the majority that could not make a substantive argument in favour of mr juncker. partly they talked about it, they attacked the petitioners personally, partly the socialists said what a complication it would be if a new commission had to be elected. you have lost all moral foundation for both parliament and the commission to act as defenders of so-called european values and to impose sanctions on the member states.
in writing. today, we have made it clear by a large majority that the european parliament stands with the european commission and the reform programme it is about to launch. the attempts of the eurosceptics to destabilise the eu institutions have failed. the motion of censure they tabled was an attack not just on the european commission but on the european union as a whole, which we managed to thwart by joining forces with several major political groups, including the european people's party. to respond adequately to the challenges facing the union, an effective and strong european institutional framework is needed. a strong commission, capable of solving problems effectively, is an essential element of this institutional system.
in writing. - cohesion policy is the eu's main investment policy, the engine of european growth and job creation, with a budget of over €350 billion for the period up to 2020. the strong delay in the programming process is a serious problem for the effectiveness of cohesion policy, as only a small part of the planned operational programmes will be adopted by the end of 2014. it is of course important that quality operational programmes are drawn up and adopted, as this avoids reprogramming at a later stage, but the current delays make it difficult for national, regional and local authorities to make effective use of the structural funds for 2014-2020. another problem is that, as cohesion policy (together with co-financing by the member states) accounts for the bulk of public expenditure on growth in the union, we are slowly undermining the efficiency of investment. in addition to the delays in the programming process, there is the problem of recurrent arrears, which currently amount to eur 23 billion for the 2007-13 programming period. this deficiency significantly undermines the credibility, effectiveness and sustainability of cohesion policy. it is important and urgent to reach an agreement on the backlog as soon as possible on the basis of the new proposal from the european commission. it is also essential that as many programmes as possible are placed in the 'ready to receive' category by the end of 2014.
in writing. the european parliament debated the most pressing issues concerning children's rights at its plenary session today, in the context of the 25th anniversary of the adoption of the convention on the rights of the child by the un. on the 25th anniversary of the convention, eu member states must strengthen their commitment to respect and protect children's rights in practice. we have a vital role to play in protecting children's rights within and outside the union, as respecting children's rights is both a legal and a moral obligation. hungary is setting a good example in this area as well. think of child-friendly justice or the new elements in the hungarian criminal code that increase the protection of children.
in writing. the creation of the eu's digital single market is of paramount importance to citizens and businesses, as it has the potential to create millions of new jobs and allow europe's gdp to grow by 4% by 2020. strengthening consumer rights strengthens trust and ultimately the economy, so i voted in favour of the commission doing everything it can to ensure that companies providing such services operate on a level playing field in the online search market. the legislative framework for data protection and adequate protection of intellectual property rights has not yet been finalised and this should be brought to the attention of the present resolution.
mr president, thank you, although i would prefer to keep the old procedure, one in favour, one against, and one presenting the whole thing, so as not to complicate our business. the commission work programme is a very serious exercise, especially in the absence of a right of initiative on behalf of parliament. however, this year is a special year and our programming exercise does not foresee a resolution because the commission only took office on 1 november, so there was no possibility to have this sequence, with one resolution in september and then another one. so i do not think it is good to have a hasty resolution on this, especially given that what we want to see after an election year is work, real work, not resolutions in january about a programme which is to be adopted tomorrow by the commission. so my proposal is not to have a resolution but to start to work.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, the green group and i warmly welcome and support the accession of the eu to cites, which is one of the world’s most powerful tools for biodiversity conservation. it is clearly a necessary and desirable development. however, as i see it, this step is only a drop in the bucket. let me remind you that, despite the eu’s commitment to halve the loss of biodiversity in the eu by 2020 and to restore biodiversity wherever possible, in the longer term – as well as in the long-term vision for biodiversity for 2050 – natural capital and ecosystems services are being continuously depleted. this will have profound consequences for our wellbeing. as stated by the commission itself, over half of the habitats and species covered by the eu habitats directive are considered to be in an unfavourable conservation status. there is evidence that the status of many ecosystems is reaching, or has already reached, the point of no return. it is estimated that each year we lose 3% of our gdp due to the loss of biodiversity. besides undermining the economy through diversity loss, changes in habitats and ecosystems also erode social cohesion in and outside the eu. thus we must step up efforts in europe to achieve our biodiversity targets. we must ensure that none of the policies of the eu or of its member states have harmful impacts on biodiversity. we must reinvest in natural capital, construct green infrastructure and ensure that all spending under the eu budget is supportive of halting the loss of biodiversity. i therefore urge the european commission and all european decision-makers to set their priorities and structure their work mindful of the biodiversity targets, and not to compromise biodiversity, as it is crucial to sustaining the ecological systems and the services we all depend on.
on behalf of the ppe group. thank you very much for the word. madam president, distinguished officer, fellow members of the house of representatives. reducing the greenhouse gas emissions of fuels is an important part of the european union's efforts to combat climate change. the european union, as a pioneer in this fight at international level, cannot afford to let its objectives go unfulfilled. at the same time, we must achieve these objectives by taking account of the interests of industry. we need to create regulations that place as little bureaucratic burden on economic actors as possible. we are responsible for protecting our environment, for the competitiveness of our continent, for the preservation of our jobs. in my view, the commission's proposal combines these aspects in an appropriate way. i would like to call the attention of my colleagues who wish to vote against the commission's proposal to the fact that, despite the best intentions, they are risking five years of work. it is a compromise proposal, so it is far from perfect, but after lengthy negotiations, a consensus solution has been reached, which will finally allow the work on reducing emissions to begin. it sounds good for distributors to report the greenhouse gas emissions of the raw materials they actually use. however, the practical implementation of this does not seem realistic. on the one hand, it is not possible to verify that the extracting countries provide the eu with reliable data, and on the other hand, obtaining the necessary certificates would impose a disproportionate administrative burden on industry. moreover, this methodology may also put at a competitive disadvantage operators who have no intention of importing, for example, canadian oil sands but have limited possibilities to source raw materials. the average gross value is, in my opinion, a good tool to bridge these problems. my fellow members of parliament! i therefore propose that the commission's proposal be accepted. a possible rejection could also jeopardise the 6% emission reduction target. thank you very much for the floor, madam president.
thank you so much for the opportunity. mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. i agree with my colleagues who say in this long debate, now over five years old, that the commission's proposal is now moving in a different direction from the original objective, and i will be honest and say that i myself believe that in the meantime this compromise has been skewed in a certain direction because the powerful lobby groups have certainly been able to push the relatively weak civilians down. but at the same time, i think that the real solution is not necessarily within the framework of this directive, but that what we are not taking out of the ground, but what we are producing here on the ground by means of sunlight - biofuels - these could actually be the real solution. they do not have the controversy that exists over minerals of different origins and qualities that are mined from under the earth. so thank you for your attention.
thank you, madam president, and mr. officer. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the transport of dangerous goods by road. we'll vote on that on wednesday. it is very important to have a quality and fair list of offences and it is essential to act against all types of offending behaviour, so the absence of a community driving licence or driving licence cannot be tolerated. the same is true of illegal cabotage, which casts a negative light on all legitimate hauliers. however, i would draw the commission's attention to the fact that the elimination of so-called social dumping cannot be started or pursued selectively in certain narrow sectoral policies, and is even harmful. rather, a comprehensive initiative to accelerate social inclusion in the cee member states is needed, since the cause should be eliminated, not the symptoms treated. the european union should not take over the control of the member states' compliance with and implementation of national social legislation by means of a delegated act, as this could ultimately disrupt the unity of the road haulage market and hinder the implementation of the fundamental principles of free movement of goods and freedom to provide services. the fact that the council has supported the commission's present proposal raises further questions and indicates that solutions may have to be sought elsewhere and differently. thank you, sir.
my fellow members of parliament! i will make my next speech in italian sign language, again in solidarity with my fellow deaf italians. today, i represent my fellow deaf italians in the european parliament. on november 20, 2014, in the center of rome, 6,000 deaf citizens demonstrated for the recognition of italian sign language. in the european union, three countries, italy, luxembourg and malta, are sitting on the sidelines, as they are the only countries that have not yet adopted sign language. on behalf of the 60,000 deaf people in italy, i call on the italian government to pass the law on italian sign language as soon as possible! thank you very much.
thank you, mr. president the major foreign policy announcement of the past few weeks was the statement by russian president vladimir putin, and since reaffirmed, that they were shutting down the south stream project and would build a new pipeline to turkey. needless to say, the announcement caused a stir in the eu, but it was particularly sensitive to serbia, the candidate country. moreover, the russian ambassador in belgrade took advantage of the situation to denigrate the eu and to name it as the sole responsible for the project's suspension, creating serious internal political tension in the country. i would like to see the vice-president responsible for the energy union, mr šefčovič, engage in decisive and early consultations on this issue with candidate serbia, as he has done with the other eu member states concerned. the serbian government has already stressed its continued commitment to the eu, and i think that this highly energy-dependent country needs to feel the support of the eu in this very difficult matter, helping to preserve the stability of serbian domestic politics. thank you, sir.
the next item is the commission statement on the governance review of the sixth and second packages (2014/2938) (rsp)
my fellow members of the house of representatives! i understand that this is a very important question. i appreciate your responsibility, but this is a long discussion. and please accept that as your representative, i'm giving you a chance at a blue card. so for those of my fellow congressmen who later indicated they wanted a yellow card, i'm not giving them a chance.
mr. valli, i would like to thank you for your support. you used harsh words, which is something to consider before you reconsider your next speech, and as the representative knows, the sound is coming from all directions, and it's not necessary for the commissioner to turn 180 degrees to look at you.
thank you so much for the word. mr. president, i have to ask you... listening to this debate, i have often been struck by the fact that if any of us, meps, commission officials, went into a café or anywhere where we met a large number of european citizens and asked them whether they understood this package two, this package six, these technical terms, then there is a good chance that one in a hundred people would understand this. but this debate has also contributed - and i thank those colleagues who have clarified - that what we are talking about are measures to deal with the eurozone crisis or the crisis attributed to the eurozone. but there is one thing that has been less discussed today - and i would like to draw attention to it, in fact i would like to ask the representative of the european commission - what have you done and what do you intend to do beyond the sentences described to make the social dialogue, that is to say the understanding of the individual actors, better in this matter. because i suspect that the real problem with this package of measures, called the six or two package, is that societies did not understand what it was about, and therefore it was difficult to find partnerships with them. so my question is: what do you intend to do to ensure that social dialogue really accompanies this process? thank you very much.
written. the crisis has divided euro area and non-euro area member states in terms of economic performance, a duality that raises serious questions about the effectiveness of any common economic policy. i believe that our future together depends on whether we can bridge this disturbing gap. although the process has begun, it is progressing at an alarming rate and it is feared that by the time the economically well-functioning and crisis-stricken countries, especially those in southern europe, come together, it will be too late. it has been proven that overcoming the crisis also requires a disciplined fiscal policy, including structural fiscal rules laid down at constitutional level. it became clear that the measures launched in 2011 in the european union were unable to significantly increase the employment rate (68%), whereas, for example, my country, hungary, has been steadily increasing it since 2010 in small, measured steps, from 60,4% to 63,2%. i think hungary should set a good example in this area. the main issue under review now is the extent to which the new rules introduced by the sixth and second packages have been effective in achieving the objectives set and have contributed to lasting convergence in the economic performance of the member states. i look forward to seeing what the commission will do to restructure the company.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of re-electing emily o'reilly as european ombudsman, in recognition of her personal competence and her work to date and of the ombudsman's outstanding role in the functioning of an effective, transparent and democratic european union. although the european ombudsman's tasks and powers do not extend to investigating anomalies in the governance of individual member states, he has an important role to play in guiding and stimulating relations between the european institutions, bodies and citizens, in particular in the fight against a citizen-friendly and open eu and against euroscepticism. its more successful and visible activities can be a particularly important encouragement for citizens of member states where human and civil rights are still not fully respected or where the government does not fully ensure the conditions for the functioning of a democratic rule of law. the ep's convincing vote means that the european ombudsman can rely on reinforced political support and legitimacy in this important mission in the period ahead.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council repealing council directive 93/5/eec of 25 february 1993 on the support of the commission by the member states for scientific investigations into foodstuffs and on the cooperation of the member states with that directive. the commission has launched a programme to provide businesses, workers and citizens with a simple, clear, stable and predictable regulatory framework. in this context, the commission undertook to repeal the rules that had become redundant or obsolete. the purpose of the repealed directive was to ensure the proper functioning of the scientific committee for food by encouraging scientific support from the member states and by organising cooperation with the competent national bodies on scientific matters relating to food safety. under regulation (ec) no 178/2002, efsa became the competent authority responsible for organising scientific cooperation with the member states and the corresponding national bodies active in the areas covered by the authority's mission. in my view, these and similar simplification measures lay the foundations for the effective functioning of the european union. these are not just technical changes, but positive changes that can be felt in the daily lives of eu citizens.
in writing. ‒ the washington convention on international trade in wildlife species is a major international instrument aimed at ensuring the protection of endangered species of flora and fauna by regulating international trade in specimens of these species. the text of the convention originally allowed only states to join. for this reason, the european union has so far participated in the convention only as an observer. this is changing, as it is now legally possible for the eu to join the convention as a party to the treaty and to represent itself indirectly, not just through the member states. the accession of the european union to the convention will allow the eu to be adequately represented at the meetings of the organisation established by the convention and to play a full role in the work of the convention.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion because by joining the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora we can take a more vocal stance against the illegal trade in endangered species. i should note that until now, only sovereign states could join cites, which changed in 2013. from now on, federations of states, organisations formed by sovereign states, can join this important international instrument, and the european union has the opportunity to do so. i consider it important that, as the recommendation states, the accession of the european union to cites is a logical and necessary step towards the full achievement of the objectives of the eu's environmental policy. accession will allow the commission to represent the union's united position on matters relating to the convention on behalf of the european union and to play a significant role in the negotiations of the conferences of the parties.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of renewing the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation between the european community and ukraine. ukraine's scientific and technological development, its connection to european and international scientific networks and access to know-how play a very important role in the country's european integration and economic stability. in the european union, we also see a response to economic development in strengthening r & d and innovation activities, and this is no different in ukraine. the current state of the ukrainian economy and the situation of the ukrainian energy sector also have an impact on the european union. however, scientific and technological cooperation is an area that can greatly improve these and contribute to the stability and development of the country and thus the region as a whole.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the signing and provisional application on behalf of the european union of the agreement on the participation of the republic of croatia in the european economic area and three related agreements. as a member of the joint parliamentary committee of switzerland, norway and the eu/iceland/eea, i also consider it important that croatia participates in the european economic area. the importance of this issue is shown by the fact that the eea agreement brings together the eu member states and the three members of the european free trade agreement: iceland, liechtenstein and norway, as a single market. the eea agreement requires all eea states to adopt eu legislation on the four freedoms - free movement of goods, services, persons and capital. the agreement also covers cooperation in other important areas such as research and development, education, social policy, environment, consumer protection, tourism and culture (accompanying and horizontal policies). i should note that the treaty entails obligations and not merely benefits, as the agreement provides equal rights and obligations in the internal market for eea citizens and economic operators.
in writing. ‒ a council decision of february 2004 granted france concessions for certain products until 1 july 2014, including the 'octroi de mer' tax applied in the french outermost regions, in order to compensate for and encourage the competitiveness and social and economic development of the outermost regions, which are facing many of the major difficulties (such as their small size, limited dependence on the market, geographical distance, low export capacity). france has requested that a tax system similar to the one described above be maintained until 31 december 2020. the european commission has carried out a thorough investigation and proposed the creation of a new legal framework for the octroi de mer tax for the period from 1 january 2015 to 31 december 2020, which defines the products to which the exemptions and preferences can be applied. this measure does not undermine the unity of the internal market or the union legal order, aims to stimulate economic activity and competitiveness in the outermost regions and is therefore to be supported.
in writing. ‒ on 28 october 2014, the commission adopted a proposal for a decision to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund for italy to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant by the limited liability company whirlpool europe in economic sector 27 (manufacture of electrical equipment) of nace rev. 2 as a result of the global financial and economic crisis. this is the 18th application to be examined under the 2014 budget and is for a total of eur 1 890 000 from the egf for the benefit of italy. the application concerns a total of 608 beneficiaries. the request was submitted to the commission on 18 june 2014 and supplemented by additional information until 13 august 2014. the recession has had a serious impact on the consumption habits of italian households, as they have reconsidered their purchasing decisions, in particular with regard to the purchase of consumer durables: in four of the five years between 2009 and 2013, household consumption in italy decreased compared to the same period of the previous year. consequently, the italian market for household appliances decreased from eur 3174 billion in 2010 to eur 2649 billion in 2013, a decrease of 16,5%. this explains why production in the 27th sector of nace rev. 2 decreased at the level of the 28 eu member states for 6 consecutive years (2008 to 2013). the fidesz-kdnp delegation supports the motion in solidarity. it is important that dismissed workers receive appropriate support for their reintegration into the labour market.
in writing. ‒ on 10 november 2014, the commission adopted a proposal for a decision to mobilise the egf in favour of poland to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant by the fiat auto poland s.a. plant in tychy, silesia, poland, as a result of major structural changes in world trade due to globalisation. this is the 19th application to be examined under the 2014 budget and it is for the mobilisation of a total of eur 1 259 610 from the egf for the benefit of poland. the request concerns 829 redundancies at the fiat plant in tychy and 250 redundancies at 21 suppliers and downstream processors during the reference period from 21 january 2013 to 21 may 2013. the request was sent to the commission on 29 july 2013. the commission has concluded that the application complies with the requirements for mobilising the egf, as laid down in article 2 (a) of regulation (ec) no 1927/2006. the coordinated package of personalised services to be co-financed comprises the following measures for the reintegration of 777 dismissed workers: reimbursement of training and education-related costs, entrepreneurship training, training grants, traineeship grants, reimbursement of traineeship costs, intervention costs, support for self-employment and encouragement of recruitment. the fidesz-kdnp delegation supports the motion in solidarity. it is important that dismissed workers receive appropriate support for their reintegration into the labour market.
in writing. ‒ this is the twenty-first application to be examined under the 2014 budget and is for a total of eur 6 444 000 from the egf for greece. the application concerns a total of 600 beneficiaries and 500 neets. the request was lodged with the commission on 29 july 2014 and supplemented by additional information until 23 september 2014. the commission has concluded that the conditions for a financial contribution from the egf are met in the application, in accordance with the relevant provisions of the egf regulation. the coordinated package of personalised services for redundant workers and neets includes the following actions: career guidance, training, retraining and vocational training, assistance for business start-ups, financial assistance for job search and training, mobility support. the fidesz-kdnp delegation supports the motion in solidarity. it is important that dismissed workers receive appropriate support for their reintegration into the labour market.
in writing. ‒ on 11 november 2014, the commission adopted a proposal for a decision to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund for france to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation. the coordinated package of personalised services to be co-financed comprises the following measures for the reintegration of 3886 workers made redundant: counselling and career guidance, training, assistance in setting up businesses, regular information and communication activities, retraining assistance and mobility support. the fidesz-kdnp delegation supports the motion in solidarity. it is important that dismissed workers receive appropriate support for their reintegration into the labour market.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of appointing the chair, vice-chair and members of the single resolution board and thus allowing the new body to start work soon. this body, together with the single resolution mechanism and the related financing mechanism, is an important building block for the establishment of the banking union. the purpose of establishing a single bank resolution mechanism is to minimise the cost to taxpayers and budgets of the recovery or liquidation of a bank or financial institution in the event of its failure. this objective is certainly to be supported. the functioning of this mechanism will be facilitated by this key expert and independent body.
on behalf of the ppe group.– mr president, may i join with my colleagues in congratulating you on this great prize. it is christmas time and we are decorating trees, and at christmas time for many years now we have done the exercise of the commission work programme where everyone wants to put many decorations on this christmas tree! however, the exercise of the commission work programme is completely different and i would like to welcome and congratulate the commission on this work programme, on behalf of the epp, in achieving – at least so far – this impossible exercise by not making the commission work programme into a christmas tree where everyone finds their own point. we welcome the change; we welcome the simplicity and sticking to the basic principles, the ten priorities of the juncker programme and investment plans in this work programme. i understand, and the same problem exists for parliament: we all want our decorations on the christmas tree and in this exercise we have seen in this election that we are losing the basic priorities. the word priority comes from the latin word for ‘one’. priority means one. ten priorities are already more than one. twenty-three priorities are more than ten. however, twenty-three priorities are more than 452 which is an extremely important and efficient exercise. the epp would like to see efforts concentrated on the key items and refrain from taking initiatives which are not essential. also we have to pay very strong attention to the implementation. very often parliaments and our colleagues demand other elements and legislation just because the implementation is not done, so i would also welcome concentration and orientation on the implementation issues. we would like to see a growth-oriented commission work programme creating all the conditions needed for more jobs, more mobility on the labour market and therefore better educational skills, notably in the it sector, and the establishment of a real energy single market ensuring energy security and supply and going further towards a real and secular digital single market. we also support your endeavours to have less bureaucracy at all stages at the national and union level, using taxpayers’ money in a more efficient way in the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion, as well as simplifying the life of the economic actors, farmers, smes, because entrepreneurship needs a friendly environment without unnecessary administrative burdens and obstacles, and facilities in capital and financing access. we are therefore welcoming change. however we have been through this exercise so the implementation of this commission work programme is the key. we are therefore in favour of a new deal allowing the commission, council and parliament to define together the eu priorities. whether this commission work programme is the starting shot for that we will only know later on, but i wish us all the best of luck and strength to the commission for the implementation.
mr president, mr vice president, please. i voted for your commission with high hopes a few weeks ago, because i believed that the programme would help to get the economy going, to strengthen european competitiveness, to eliminate unemployment. do you know what the industry is that is the third largest in europe? the one that employs 20 million people? the one that gives most smes a task, an opportunity, a space to move? this is tourism. and tourism is not on the agenda, not even a word. i know we're not legally involved. but when we talk about a united europe, a competitive europe, we must not forget that. if we want to solve the problem of youth unemployment, we have to turn to this sector. we have to see that 50 percent of the world's tourism revenue is generated here in europe. why don't they deal with it? i offer my help as vice-chairman of the committee on transport and tourism, former hungarian secretary of state for tourism and chairman of the committee on tourism at home. more than 100 of our members have signed up for the newly formed tourism integration group. we'll help, but we'll be partners in getting tourism back to where it belongs. and i have one more comment as a hungarian: i wrote a letter to you last week, mr juncker, asking you about the involvement of one of your commissioners in an electoral campaign in hungary, in breach of the code of ethics. i have received no reply from you, but i have received from your spokesman a rather outrageous, simple message from the hungarian post office. i ask that we take each other seriously, both in professional matters and in matters of political-institutional cooperation. thank you very much, mr. president.
in writing. i fully agree with the commission's objective of reasonable legislation. like the citizens, i expect the commission to propose solutions to key economic and social challenges such as fighting unemployment, energy security or improving competitiveness. in areas where the member states are in a better position to act, the eu should intervene less in people's daily lives. i welcome the commission's withdrawal of its proposals on school milk and school fruit, the air quality package and the production and marketing of seeds and propagating material. the existing eu rules in these areas are working well and citizens should not be burdened with new, more complex rules. i am particularly pleased that the commission is willing to make fundamental changes to its proposal on organic farming, as requested by the council and parliament. finally, i believe it is important that the efforts to simplify and streamline should affect as many of the major regulations as possible. significant simplifications will be needed in the regulation of greening, especially in ecologically significant areas. when evaluating the common fisheries policy, every effort should be made to prioritise environmentally friendly closed-system freshwater aquaculture as an excellent example of green management. and we need to support renewable energy production much more strongly than we currently do if we want to achieve long-term energy security in the eu.
in writing. i am convinced that in the medium and long term, the european economy can be boosted by research and development, innovation, educational development and, therefore, knowledge. i find it disappointing that the european commission's 2015 work programme has only mentioned r & d and innovation once in a meaningful way: the energy union vision includes support for these activities, an initiative i share widely. even more disappointing is the fact that the commission's investment incentive package, which has just been announced, also leaves r & d and innovation behind. moreover, a larger amount from the existing programme for r & d development (horizon 2020) was transferred to the strategic fund, with a still rather uncertain outcome. this shift is reducing predictability in an area where the availability of resources is crucial for multiannual, long-term projects. i suggest that the european commission should pay particular attention to european r & d and innovation activities in its work, as the further development of our skills and capabilities in this area is essential for the re-industrialisation of europe.
in writing. it is extremely worrying that the new commission has withdrawn draft legislation that is essential for sustainability, including the circular economy package and the air quality regulatory plan, as well as the draft revision of the energy taxation directive. the withdrawal of the circular economy, resource efficiency and waste recycling project is also shocking because it was the result of a serious social consultation and would serve the long-term interests of both the public and the economic operators. the waste targets, as indicated in the baseline studies, the impact assessment and the commission's own communication, would create around 500 000 new jobs, stimulate innovation, significantly reduce harmful impacts on human health and the environment and significantly reduce the demand for rare raw materials. the move was opposed by a number of organisations and member states, and the weight of the matter is indicated by the fact that the issue was put on the agenda for tomorrow by the council of ministers, under pressure from the italian eu presidency, which is made up of 23 member states. the withdrawal of the proposals is also a concern because it is not clear what criteria will be used to prepare the new version. this package of measures is not only not conducive to restoring confidence, but it also fails to meet the requirement of transparency. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the commission has taken a decision to impose a financial penalty on luxopco.
in writing. i support all measures to boost investment and job creation, but these measures will not be successful as long as tax evasion and avoidance in the european union is at this level. the estimates are well known, but this double circle must be supplemented by the question of over-dose, which is also an obstacle to economic development. in hungary, for example, the indirect food surcharge is 27%, and additional special taxes are added to it. as a result, traffic has been significantly reduced, forcing operators to resort to legal avoidance techniques. another example from my country is that the overselling of tobacco products and the transformation of the tobacco distribution system caused a 40% decrease in turnover, which can be explained and demonstrated by the increase in the turnover of black market products. i encourage the european commission to address these issues in its work programme. i would like to ask the commission whether it plans to take further steps in the field of tax harmonisation and whether it will include these steps in its work programme for 2015.
in writing. yesterday, the european parliament's committee on budgets adopted by a large majority the agreement on the eu budget for 2015 and the surplus for 2014. the agreement has the enormous advantage of allowing the eu's 2015 budget to be adopted this year, meaning that next year not only a twelfth of this year's budget could be paid out every month. the ep agreed to the adoption of the eu budget for next year on condition that the european commission develops a plan to settle the outstanding accounts. in 2014, eur 23,4 billion of the previous year's arrears are to be settled. the agreement between the ep and the council provides for an additional funding of almost eur 4 billion. during the negotiations on the 2015 budget, we defended important cohesion and agricultural resources for hungary. we therefore rejected the european commission's proposal to create a hedge to mitigate the damage caused by the russian embargo by transferring 1% of direct payments to farmers. we can count it a success that we have protected the direct payments that are important for hungarian farmers! the adoption of the 2015 budget could be jeopardised if the plenary adopts a single budgetary amendment to the proposal. that would require reconciliation negotiations and we would not be able to adopt the budget this year. the hungarian people's party delegation will make a responsible decision in representing the national interests of our country, that is, it will vote in plenary on the agreement and reject any amendment proposals that threaten it.
it's a two-card draw. mr pons, you mentioned in your speech that you attach great importance to the fight against tax evasion and tax fraud, and i would like to ask you, with respect, whether your party and you personally are prepared to take the same strong action against the over-selling of certain member states, which is a particularly serious problem in my country, hungary, for example, where it is a way of opening up the black economy.
madam president, mr. president, ladies and gentlemen, members of the house. there is agreement between parliament, the commission and the council that the european economy needs to be stimulated. i support the objectives of the investment plan myself. however, i have some doubts and reservations about the way in which it will be implemented. firstly, in fact, outside the eib funding, there seems to be no new money for the investment plan. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the guarantee fund and its implementation in the light of the results of the pilot project. on the other hand, the multiplier effect envisaged by the commission is, in my view, overly optimistic. the estimates of transfers are unfortunately not realistic on the basis of the information available and further member state involvement would be very necessary. thirdly, taking into account the above concerns, particular attention should be paid to the selection of projects. only a good quality list of projects can lead to long-term growth. we can only achieve the desired stimulating effect by supporting projects that serve our objectives in all respects. my fellow members of the house of representatives! i think that's what energy projects are like. so let's seize this opportunity and take a big step towards solving the problem of european security of supply. the barroso package has already focused on energy infrastructure, but we are still talking about dependency and lack of connections. the central and eastern european region remains the most vulnerable. the only way to ensure a secure and affordable energy supply for european citizens and businesses is to create a single energy market. in the long run, it is cheaper energy that can make europe more competitive. (the intervener agrees to answer a question for a blue card under article 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
it's a two-card draw. trust is needed to get the economy going. for example, in europe, in connection with the commission's work for the next year, and as a hungarian, i see that there are countries - not only our country - where the parties, and for example the prime minister himself, regularly slander the european union. so i ask you, mr. speaker, what do you think about the fact that the prime minister has pointed to the european union for example because of the introduction of a new tax in hungary, when we both know that this is not true? is this method permissible?
that's a two-card answer. thank you for your question, mr. member. it gives me a chance to say something. you don't like to praise your own horse, but if you have already done so and asked a question, then let me tell you in this plenary that hungarian economic growth is today at the forefront of the european union, more than 3%. unemployment is falling steadily in hungary, as is the public debt, and the deficit is stable below 3%. these are the indicators of the hungarian economy. all this after we took over a crumbling economy from the government you represented.
madam president, mr. president, colleagues, i would like to thank you for your kind words. do you know the term "skype grandparent" or "skype grandson"? we in hungary use it for families that have been torn apart by the economic, social crisis. for those who had to move thousands of kilometres from hungary, young people who, together with their children, are now quite certain to see their grandparents less often, since they have settled in another country because of the economic crisis. it's not good for anyone. this is obviously causing social tensions in the wealthier european countries, where there are a lot of eastern european workers, but it's not good for us at home, because there's a shortage of nurses, there's a shortage of doctors, there's a shortage of craftsmen. 600,000 young people have emigrated from hungary in the last four years. i ask the commission to develop a concrete action plan on how we can help these young people to find their place, and not just to stay in touch with their parents and grandparents on skype.
i would like to mention two things, although i could have mentioned one of them in the context of a pink card. i would like to draw mr juncker's attention to the fact that tax avoidance and tax evasion, as two words that run side by side, do not cover the whole tax problem, the problem of tax evasion, because there is a notion that the economy is being blackmailed, in fact, blackmailed, by excessive taxation. hungary, my country, just to give an example, is where the food trade, thanks to the staggeringly high food tax of 27%, to which the government has now added an additional 6%, essentially half of the food trade is going to the black economy. another, it's a shorter sentence. i'd like the resources of the investment stimulus package not to drain the existing funds.
in writing. the next test of hungarian competitiveness will be how much of the €300 billion to €330 billion investment package announced by the european commission the respected hungarian government can bring to hungary. the government represents hungarian interests well when we receive ten billion euros of investment, which is about three percent of the package, because we also receive about that proportion from the eu budget. if less than this amount of investment is coming into our country, creating jobs, the government has failed to represent hungarian interests well. the hungarian government's success propaganda test whether hungary, which has been in regional competition since 2010, is able to propose competitive projects to investors. the hungarian government should propose programs that reduce our country's energy dependence. projects are needed that exploit the traditionally good hungarian grey stock, for example by further developing the szeged laser centre. the juncker package will be an objective measure of the competitiveness of the hungarian economy, of the hungarian government's socially insensitive economic policy. hungary must attract as many investments as possible not with cheap labour but with an innovative, competitive economy. it is unsustainable and a long-term concern that today only one hungarian company is on the list of the 1000 european companies that invest most in development. dismantling higher education, ridiculing it, and training talented hungarians to become skilled workers obviously won't help to reverse this.
in writing. the european parliament today adopted by a large majority the amendments to the eu budget for 2015 and the surplus resources for 2014. the agreement has the enormous advantage of allowing the eu's 2015 budget to be adopted this year, so that next year more than a twelfth of this year's budget could be paid out each month. this will provide an additional €4 billion for 2014, of which €3.5 billion will be 'fresh money', i.e. not the result of transfers. the ep only agreed to the eu budget for next year on condition that the european commission develops a plan to reduce unpaid bills to sustainable levels. in 2014, €23.4 billion of the previous year's arrears are due. today's vote will provide an additional funding of almost 4 billion euros. the european parliament's decision today also secured hungary's agricultural and cohesion resources for this year's and next year's budgets. the hungarian people's party delegation, together with the european people's party, in representing the national interests of our country, responsibly decided and voted on the 2015 eu budget and all the reports contained in the related agreement. the agreement also includes reports to mobilise the solidarity fund, which mitigates the damage caused by natural disasters in different regions of europe.
in writing. the european parliament today adopted by a large majority the amendments to the eu budget for 2015 and the surplus resources for 2014. the agreement has the enormous advantage of allowing the eu's 2015 budget to be adopted this year, so that next year more than a twelfth of this year's budget could be paid out each month. this will provide an additional €4 billion for 2014, of which €3.5 billion will be 'fresh money', i.e. not the result of transfers. the ep only agreed to the eu budget for next year on condition that the european commission develops a plan to reduce unpaid bills to sustainable levels. in 2014, €23.4 billion of the previous year's arrears are due. today's vote will provide an additional funding of almost 4 billion euros. the european parliament's decision today also secured hungary's agricultural and cohesion resources for this year's and next year's budgets. the hungarian people's party delegation, together with the european people's party, in representing the national interests of our country, responsibly decided and voted on the 2015 eu budget and all the reports contained in the related agreement. the agreement also includes reports to mobilise the solidarity fund, which mitigates the damage caused by natural disasters in different regions of europe.
in writing. the european parliament today adopted by a large majority the amendments to the eu budget for 2015 and the surplus resources for 2014. the agreement has the enormous advantage of allowing the eu's 2015 budget to be adopted this year, so that next year more than a twelfth of this year's budget could be paid out each month. this will provide an additional €4 billion for 2014, of which €3.5 billion will be 'fresh money', i.e. not the result of transfers. the ep only agreed to the eu budget for next year on condition that the european commission develops a plan to reduce unpaid bills to sustainable levels. in 2014, €23.4 billion of the previous year's arrears are due. today's vote will provide an additional funding of almost 4 billion euros. the european parliament's decision today also secured hungary's agricultural and cohesion resources for this year's and next year's budgets. the hungarian people's party delegation, together with the european people's party, in representing the national interests of our country, responsibly decided and voted on the 2015 eu budget and all the reports contained in the related agreement. the agreement also includes reports to mobilise the solidarity fund, which mitigates the damage caused by natural disasters in different regions of europe.
in writing. the european parliament today adopted by a large majority the amendments to the eu budget for 2015 and the surplus resources for 2014. the agreement has the enormous advantage of allowing the eu's 2015 budget to be adopted this year, so that next year more than a twelfth of this year's budget could be paid out each month. this will provide an additional €4 billion for 2014, of which €3.5 billion will be 'fresh money', i.e. not the result of transfers. the ep only agreed to the eu budget for next year on condition that the european commission develops a plan to reduce unpaid bills to sustainable levels. in 2014, €23.4 billion of the previous year's arrears are due. today's vote will provide an additional funding of almost 4 billion euros. the european parliament's decision today also secured hungary's agricultural and cohesion resources for this year's and next year's budgets. the hungarian people's party delegation, together with the european people's party, in representing the national interests of our country, responsibly decided and voted on the 2015 eu budget and all the reports contained in the related agreement. the agreement also includes reports to mobilise the solidarity fund, which mitigates the damage caused by natural disasters in different regions of europe.
in writing. the european parliament today adopted by a large majority the amendments to the eu budget for 2015 and the surplus resources for 2014. the agreement has the enormous advantage of allowing the eu's 2015 budget to be adopted this year, so that next year more than a twelfth of this year's budget could be paid out each month. this will provide an additional €4 billion for 2014, of which €3.5 billion will be 'fresh money', i.e. not the result of transfers. the ep only agreed to the eu budget for next year on condition that the european commission develops a plan to reduce unpaid bills to sustainable levels. in 2014, €23.4 billion of the previous year's arrears are due. today's vote will provide an additional funding of almost 4 billion euros. the european parliament's decision today also secured hungary's agricultural and cohesion resources for this year's and next year's budgets. the hungarian people's party delegation, together with the european people's party, in representing the national interests of our country, responsibly decided and voted on the 2015 eu budget and all the reports contained in the related agreement. the agreement also includes reports to mobilise the solidarity fund, which mitigates the damage caused by natural disasters in different regions of europe.
in writing. the european parliament today adopted by a large majority the amendments to the eu budget for 2015 and the surplus resources for 2014. the agreement has the enormous advantage of allowing the eu's 2015 budget to be adopted this year, so that next year more than a twelfth of this year's budget could be paid out each month. this will provide an additional €4 billion for 2014, of which €3.5 billion will be 'fresh money', i.e. not the result of transfers. the ep only agreed to the eu budget for next year on condition that the european commission develops a plan to reduce unpaid bills to sustainable levels. in 2014, €23.4 billion of the previous year's arrears are due. today's vote will provide an additional funding of almost 4 billion euros. the european parliament's decision today also secured hungary's agricultural and cohesion resources for this year's and next year's budgets. the hungarian people's party delegation, together with the european people's party, in representing the national interests of our country, responsibly decided and voted on the 2015 eu budget and all the reports contained in the related agreement. the agreement also includes reports to mobilise the solidarity fund, which mitigates the damage caused by natural disasters in different regions of europe.
in writing. the european parliament today adopted by a large majority the amendments to the eu budget for 2015 and the surplus resources for 2014. the agreement has the enormous advantage of allowing the eu's 2015 budget to be adopted this year, so that next year more than a twelfth of this year's budget could be paid out each month. this will provide an additional €4 billion for 2014, of which €3.5 billion will be 'fresh money', i.e. not the result of transfers. the ep only agreed to the eu budget for next year on condition that the european commission develops a plan to reduce unpaid bills to sustainable levels. in 2014, €23.4 billion of the previous year's arrears are due. today's vote will provide an additional funding of almost 4 billion euros. the european parliament's decision today also secured hungary's agricultural and cohesion resources for this year's and next year's budgets. the hungarian people's party delegation, together with the european people's party, in representing the national interests of our country, responsibly decided and voted on the 2015 eu budget and all the reports contained in the related agreement. the agreement also includes reports to mobilise the solidarity fund, which mitigates the damage caused by natural disasters in different regions of europe.
in writing. the european parliament today adopted by a large majority the amendments to the eu budget for 2015 and the surplus resources for 2014. the agreement has the enormous advantage of allowing the eu's 2015 budget to be adopted this year, so that next year more than a twelfth of this year's budget could be paid out each month. this will provide an additional €4 billion for 2014, of which €3.5 billion will be 'fresh money', i.e. not the result of transfers. the ep only agreed to the eu budget for next year on condition that the european commission develops a plan to reduce unpaid bills to sustainable levels. in 2014, €23.4 billion of the previous year's arrears are due. today's vote will provide an additional funding of almost 4 billion euros. the european parliament's decision today also secured hungary's agricultural and cohesion resources for this year's and next year's budgets. the hungarian people's party delegation, together with the european people's party, in representing the national interests of our country, responsibly decided and voted on the 2015 eu budget and all the reports contained in the related agreement. the agreement also includes reports to mobilise the solidarity fund, which mitigates the damage caused by natural disasters in different regions of europe.
in writing. the european parliament today adopted by a large majority the amendments to the eu budget for 2015 and the surplus resources for 2014. the agreement has the enormous advantage of allowing the eu's 2015 budget to be adopted this year, so that next year more than a twelfth of this year's budget could be paid out each month. this will provide an additional €4 billion for 2014, of which €3.5 billion will be 'fresh money', i.e. not the result of transfers. the ep only agreed to the eu budget for next year on condition that the european commission develops a plan to reduce unpaid bills to sustainable levels. in 2014, €23.4 billion of the previous year's arrears are due. today's vote will provide an additional funding of almost 4 billion euros. the european parliament's decision today also secured hungary's agricultural and cohesion resources for this year's and next year's budgets. the hungarian people's party delegation, together with the european people's party, in representing the national interests of our country, responsibly decided and voted on the 2015 eu budget and all the reports contained in the related agreement. the agreement also includes reports to mobilise the solidarity fund, which mitigates the damage caused by natural disasters in different regions of europe.
in writing. the european parliament today adopted by a large majority the amendments to the eu budget for 2015 and the surplus resources for 2014. the agreement has the enormous advantage of allowing the eu's 2015 budget to be adopted this year, so that next year more than a twelfth of this year's budget could be paid out each month. this will provide an additional €4 billion for 2014, of which €3.5 billion will be 'fresh money', i.e. not the result of transfers. the ep only agreed to the eu budget for next year on condition that the european commission develops a plan to reduce unpaid bills to sustainable levels. in 2014, €23.4 billion of the previous year's arrears are due. today's vote will provide an additional funding of almost 4 billion euros. the european parliament's decision today also secured hungary's agricultural and cohesion resources for this year's and next year's budgets. the hungarian people's party delegation, together with the european people's party, in representing the national interests of our country, responsibly decided and voted on the 2015 eu budget and all the reports contained in the related agreement. the agreement also includes reports to mobilise the solidarity fund, which mitigates the damage caused by natural disasters in different regions of europe.
in writing. the european parliament today adopted by a large majority the amendments to the eu budget for 2015 and the surplus resources for 2014. the agreement has the enormous advantage of allowing the eu's 2015 budget to be adopted this year, so that next year more than a twelfth of this year's budget could be paid out each month. this will provide an additional €4 billion for 2014, of which €3.5 billion will be 'fresh money', i.e. not the result of transfers. the ep only agreed to the eu budget for next year on condition that the european commission develops a plan to reduce unpaid bills to sustainable levels. in 2014, €23.4 billion of the previous year's arrears are due. today's vote will provide an additional funding of almost 4 billion euros. the european parliament's decision today also secured hungary's agricultural and cohesion resources for this year's and next year's budgets. the hungarian people's party delegation, together with the european people's party, in representing the national interests of our country, responsibly decided and voted on the 2015 eu budget and all the reports contained in the related agreement. the agreement also includes reports to mobilise the solidarity fund, which mitigates the damage caused by natural disasters in different regions of europe.
in writing. the european parliament today adopted by a large majority the amendments to the eu budget for 2015 and the surplus resources for 2014. the agreement has the enormous advantage of allowing the eu's 2015 budget to be adopted this year, so that next year more than a twelfth of this year's budget could be paid out each month. this will provide an additional €4 billion for 2014, of which €3.5 billion will be 'fresh money', i.e. not the result of transfers. the ep only agreed to the eu budget for next year on condition that the european commission develops a plan to reduce unpaid bills to sustainable levels. in 2014, €23.4 billion of the previous year's arrears are due. today's vote will provide an additional funding of almost 4 billion euros. the european parliament's decision today also secured hungary's agricultural and cohesion resources for this year's and next year's budgets. the hungarian people's party delegation, together with the european people's party, in representing the national interests of our country, responsibly decided and voted on the 2015 eu budget and all the reports contained in the related agreement. the agreement also includes reports to mobilise the solidarity fund, which mitigates the damage caused by natural disasters in different regions of europe.
on behalf of the representatives of the movement for a better hungary, we had no choice but to vote no to the 2015 budget of the european union. this budget reflects the same neoliberal economic principles as it has done so far. you, the majority, have consistently rejected amendments which were intended to change this approach, but the seven-year framework itself is decisive. in real terms, the seven-year budget was reduced for the first time by 4.5%, and the cohesion funds in particular by 8.4%. this means that the gap between the so-called centre countries and the periphery will continue to grow. you speak very nicely of a united europe that is improving in living standards and in the economy, but the figures show otherwise.
in writing. the european parliament today adopted by a large majority the amendments to the eu budget for 2015 and the surplus resources for 2014. the agreement has the enormous advantage of allowing the eu's 2015 budget to be adopted this year, so that next year more than a twelfth of this year's budget could be paid out each month. this will provide an additional €4 billion for 2014, of which €3.5 billion will be 'fresh money', i.e. not the result of transfers. the ep only agreed to the eu budget for next year on condition that the european commission develops a plan to reduce unpaid bills to sustainable levels. in 2014, €23.4 billion of the previous year's arrears are due. today's vote will provide an additional funding of almost 4 billion euros. the european parliament's decision today also secured hungary's agricultural and cohesion resources for this year's and next year's budgets. the hungarian people's party delegation, together with the european people's party, in representing the national interests of our country, responsibly decided and voted on the 2015 eu budget and all the reports contained in the related agreement. the agreement also includes reports to mobilise the solidarity fund, which mitigates the damage caused by natural disasters in different regions of europe.
in writing. i voted in favour of adopting the eu budget for 2015. today's decision by the european parliament has fully covered the agricultural and cohesion resources due to hungary from the eu budget for this year and next. if that had not been achieved, only one twelfth of this year's budget could have been paid out each month next year. this would not have allowed the aid to be paid out at 100%, which would have been contrary to hungarian national interests. this budget is also important for hungarian farmers. on the one hand, we have managed to protect next year's agricultural resources. the reductions proposed by the council (e.g. in beekeeping and wine aid and in the financing of the operating funds of producer organisations) were prevented. on the other hand, we have been able to prevent budgetary withdrawals from the agricultural crisis fund. that's why the area-based grants won't be cut next year. so it was a success that we, together with mr deutsch and mr sándor fazekas, the minister of agriculture, defended direct payments that are important for hungarian farmers.
in writing. the european parliament today adopted the european union's 2015 budget by a large majority. today's decision by parliament has fully secured hungary's agricultural and cohesion resources from the eu budget for this year and next.
in writing. the european parliament today rejected a commission regulation on the classification of serious infringements that damage the reputation of road hauliers. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the transport of dangerous goods by road, rail and inland waterway. as a representative of the hungarian people's party delegation, i did not support the motion, as i see a serious danger that the extension of the range of infringements could adversely affect hungarian carriers.
in writing. reducing the greenhouse gas emissions of fuels sold is a key element of the european union's efforts to combat climate change. the european union cannot afford to fail to meet its emission reduction targets. at the same time, we must achieve our objectives in a sustainable way, taking into account the interests of industry. we need to create regulations that reduce the bureaucratic burden on economic actors and effectively promote sustainable climate protection.
in writing. i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution opposing the adoption of the draft directive, since the commission does not make any distinction in this draft concerning the different fuel sources. the directive would introduce a single value for the greenhouse gas intensity of all types of fuel. this means, among other things, that shale oil (or shale oil) will not be distinguished from conventional crude oil, although it is responsible for more greenhouse gas emissions. this will make it easier for unconventional fuels to reach europe. the draft was submitted to parliament after some five years of preparation, with the basic objective of reducing the oil industry's greenhouse gas emissions by 6% by 2020. however, it seems that this project has not fully lived up to the expectations attached to it. the socialists and democrats in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety were unanimous in their opposition to the draft. in my opinion, some elements of the draft are acceptable, but overall it does not lead to a result. my vote was intended to encourage the european commission to come up with a new alternative proposal to remove these obstacles.
although this resolution was undoubtedly adopted by a very large majority in the european parliament, it is appropriate that i should perhaps also have a word from those who abstained from voting on it. the reason for this was that i wanted to express my reservations about the content of certain elements of this decision, but above all about its timing and the international impact it is expected to have. while those who think that this resolution is a step forward for peace may be right, i believe that it is most important that the european union should play a more decisive and substantive role in promoting the middle east peace process, in the development of a lasting peace settlement leading to a negotiated two-state solution. to this end, the efforts of the high representative mogherini to establish a coherent and targeted european position deserve all the support that can be given, which will of course require time and meaningful cooperation from the european parliament, the european institutions and the member states. the call for the unilateral recognition of the state of palestine by member states in the absence of political conditions in the present situation seems to me to be more likely to undermine this important objective, losing sight of the fact that recognition should be the result of the peace settlement and not its instrument.
in writing. as a member of the fidesz delegation, i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on the recognition of the state of palestine at today's plenary session of the ep, as the adopted text expressis verbis in paragraph f states that the recognition of the state of palestine is a matter for the member states.
in writing. as a member of the fidesz people's party delegation, i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on the recognition of the state of palestine at today's plenary session of the ep, as the adopted text expressis verbis in paragraph f that recognition of the state of palestine is a competence of the member states.
in writing. as a member of the fidesz delegation, i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on the recognition of the state of palestine at today's plenary session of the ep, as the adopted text expressis verbis in paragraph f states that the recognition of the state of palestine is a matter for the member states.
in writing. as a member of the fidesz people's party delegation, i voted in favour of this joint resolution at today's plenary session of the ep, as the adopted text expressis verbis in paragraph f that recognition of the statehood of palestine is a competence of the member states and supports a solution based on the two-state principle and the 1967 borders. however, i would like to express my deep concern at the continuing escalation of tensions and violence in the region. i also welcome the parlamenti members' initiative for peace, which aims to bring together european, israeli and palestinian parliamentarians, regardless of party affiliation, to promote a peace plan and complement the eu's efforts.
in writing. as a member of the fidesz delegation, i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on the recognition of the state of palestine at today's plenary session of the ep, as the adopted text expressis verbis in paragraph f states that the recognition of the state of palestine is a matter for the member states.
in writing. as a member of the fidesz delegation, i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on the recognition of the state of palestine at today's plenary session of the ep, as the adopted text expressis verbis in paragraph f states that the recognition of the state of palestine is a matter for the member states.
in writing. as a member of the fidesz-kdnp delegation to the european parliament's plenary session today, i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on the recognition of the state of palestine, since the adopted text expressis verbis in paragraph f states that the recognition of the state of palestine is a matter for the member states.
in writing. — as a member of the epp hungarian delegation i voted in favour of the resolution on the eventual recognition of palestinian statehood, given that the text adopted states expressis verbis in recital f: ‘whereas the recognition of the state of palestine falls in the competence of the member states’.
in writing. - as a member of the fidesz people's party delegation, i voted, together with the members of the people's party group, in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on the principles for the recognition of the statehood of palestine at today's plenary session of the ep, as the adopted text expressis verbis states in paragraph f that the recognition of the statehood of palestine falls within the competence of the member states. the decision has no public-law consequences.
in writing. the key to boosting european steel demand is to improve the business environment, to create a competitive industrial framework. the creation of this new framework is our main task here in parliament and in the other institutions. i voted in favour of making energy price controls and the control of carbon dioxide emissions a priority of the european commission's work and of the commission accelerating the preparation of the industrial roadmap, given the strategic importance of the steel industry, since the reindustrialisation of europe can only be achieved through concerted action.
in writing. - the real causes of migration, its origin, are not mentioned, perhaps because then it would be necessary to reveal who, why and by what means support the outbreak of color revolutions. interestingly, the african refugees did not pour into italy while the libyan leader was in office. the latest eu vision is to have my country take in as many refugees as possible from the southwest, while not even supplying those brought directly to us by human traffickers. the resolution is therefore clearly untenable. to eliminate this untenable situation, our government must take effective action.
my fellow officers. i am very pleased that the european parliament is so outraged by the united states' gross violations of human rights. this time, it's about torture and arbitrary detention without trial. a few months ago, you and i were upset by the revelation of the edward snowden surveillance scandal. there have been drone killings, and we're outraged by that, and the killing of civilians in war, they're outraged by that. tell me one thing. if they are so upset about the human rights violations in the united states, why do they want so badly to be friends with this country, because the european union is hand in hand with the united states, in the economic line, they are constantly working on the development of the free trade agreement behind closed doors, and in the political line, the european union is inciting the united states and taking europe into a cold war on the side of the united states, or potentially into a real war against russia. if i don't like these human rights violations so much, and i'm glad i don't, then shouldn't i choose a better friend and still protect hungary, my country and all of europe from the shameful cold war and the possible actual war?
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, first of all let me thank our rapporteur, our colleague mr andrejs mamikins, for a balanced report which contains many important and good recommendations from which both the georgian government and anyone in georgia interested in politics and interested in a european future could profit. now certainly this is the time first of all to celebrate. association agreements, if they are meant to be serious agreements, are to be celebrated and i propose that we do that tomorrow and i ask all of you to support the association agreement and report with your vote. we need to pause for a moment and congratulate the georgian authorities who went through considerable changes already. of course there is much to be done. the report contains many of those important elements and the commissioner has already mentioned many of them so i am not going to repeat them. ultimately, however, i want to highlight that i do not mean to contest the statistics cited by the commissioner, but we should bear in mind that free trade agreements are not unmitigated benefits. there are social costs to them, so i warn both the commission, the georgian authorities and this house that we should follow very closely what happens at the regional level to the georgian economy and to the georgian social fabric and year by year we should return to this question.
in writing. the conclusion of the association agreement is an important step in the history of georgia and the eu. the present association agreement provides a great opportunity for georgia to become more closely involved in the process of european integration. i voted in favour of the proposals contained in this motion, as i believe that it places an appropriate emphasis on reforming the judicial system and strengthening the rule of law and democracy.
in writing. by joining the deep and comprehensive free trade area (dcfta) under the eastern partnership agreement, georgia has voted in favour of adopting legislation, standards and common values. while georgia will gain market access to the largest trading bloc, the eu will enjoy a more favourable trading environment and investment conditions in georgia. my vote contributed to the modernisation of the georgian economy, the consolidation of eu investments and a more predictable political and regulatory environment.
