a uachtaráin, faoi chomhaontú an mff, beidh eur 150 milliún á chur ar fáil ag an aontas eorpach don chlár síochána agus athmhuintearais i dtuaisceart éirinn. an additional contribution by the british government will bring the total amount available under the fund for the period 2014-2020 to eur 200 million. tá an clár seo, an clár síochána agus athmhuintearais, a bunaíodh sa bhliain 1994 fíorthábhachtach do thuaisceart éireann agus do na contaetha cois teorann. ón bhliain a bunaíodh é, tá eur 1.5 billiún curtha ar fáil ag an eoraip don tuaisceart agus do na contaetha cois teorann. i firmly believe that the extension of the programme will further help to develop peace and reconciliation on the island of ireland. i understand that a draft operational programme will be reviewed by the irish and british governments over the course of the next few weeks and that public consultation on the draft programme will be launched in the coming weeks. i would like to pay tribute to this house, to the commission and to the council for the major contribution they have made, financially and otherwise, to the peace process in ireland.
mr president, it is a pleasure to say a few words on this very important topic. i think one of the words continuously repeated here in parliament over the last few years is ‘smart’ – smart grids, smart meters, everything nowadays is supposed to be smart – and i suppose that the opposite to smart is being unwise, or perhaps even stupid. so in one sense this is a no-brainer. obviously we have to utilise european funds to the best possible advantage to do research – particularly in regions – with cooperation from the various stakeholders to get the best possible results. this applies right across all fields, and particularly so nowadays, as we have seen the ill-effects of the economic crisis and the often unwise or stupid decisions that were made leading to that. so we have to be smart from now on. if we are, then we will also be efficient, and that is what taxpayers want.
mr president, if, as i said a while ago, ‘smart’ has been the key buzzword around here over the last couple of years, then ‘e’ is the key buzz letter. we have spoken regularly about e-commerce, e-banking, e-learning and, tonight, of course, e-health – which has tremendous potential, for both patients and practitioners. i have attended a number of seminars on the subject in recent years. the netherlands, in particular, was quick off the mark in this field. e-health is now becoming more available and, quite rightly, is being taken more seriously in many areas. the benefit of e-health is that – in certain circumstances at least – the patient can go to the doctor without actually going to the doctor physically. that, of course, brings into question one thing which we have to be very careful about, and which the rapporteur mentioned: namely, data protection. i am involved in the discussions on this, and we have to get the balance right between protecting the data of consumers and enabling research by the medical professions so that we can develop cures to many of our common diseases.
a uachtaráin, tá an t-ábhar seo an-tábhachtach mar tá an iomarca caimiléireachta i ngach aon ghné trasna na heorpa ar fad. luadh mo thír féin maidir le scannal fheoil na gcapall agus ba mhaith liom cúpla focal a rá faoi sin. while the horsemeat scandal first came to light in ireland, it must be said that the vigilance of the authorities there helped to identify it, and then good action by the 28 member states across europe helped to limit it and hopefully ensure that it will not happen again. there are lessons to be learned, and esther de lange made a very important point when she mentioned penalties. whatever penalties we have now, they should be doubled, trebled and maybe quadrupled. that in itself would dramatically reduce the possibility of this reoccurring. secondly, vigilance is highly important. then there is the question of proper labelling and particularly the proper tracing of horses, just as there is for sheep and cattle – certainly in my country, where they can be traced from farm to fork. that should apply to everything.
mr president, i have a question for president barroso, though unfortunately he has again left the debate before answering any questions. perhaps commissioner šefčovič will be able to assist. at the eu summit in december, mr barroso spoke about the question of the bank bailout in ireland, saying that it would be wrong to give the impression that europe had created a problem for ireland, and that now europe had to help ireland. i hear it sometimes suggested that the problem has been created by the eu, or by the euro, but it is exactly the opposite. i think that mr barroso perhaps protests too much, because irish developers, irish bankers and the irish government should of course bear responsibility for the building of a massive property bubble which benefited a tiny section of the population – but what about the bank bailout? together with the government, did the european commission and the european central bank not support the idea of a massive bank bailout at the expense of working people in ireland? the consequence is that irish people have paid more in terms of the bank bailout than any other state in europe, with less than 1 % of europe’s population meeting 42 % of the total cost of that bailout. can the commission spell out the consequences of this thinking clearly? does it mean that the notion of retroactive burden-sharing of the bank bailout is off the table from the commission’s point of view? how does that square with the irish government’s statements that this was agreed at the summit in june 2012? this is not about asking nicely for europe to help ireland; it is about saying that all working people across europe have paid more than enough to the bankers, the bondholders and the billionaires. the debt should not be paid.
mr president, i would like to thank the lithuanian presidency. i listened very carefully this morning to ms grybauskaitė’s presentation of a very effective, efficient and hardworking presidency. often the headlines do not really tell the story of a presidency’s work – and the irish can vouch for that – but i compliment you on how you handled the presidency. i particularly welcome your mention of ireland’s exit from the bail-out. it is important that we remember what is good and positive in terms of the evolution of the european union. we welcome the stability that has come with that. i would like to comment briefly on what president barroso said in relation to the unresolved issue around the banking union. here in this house we share a real concern that we are adding complexity and will reduce the effectiveness of the measures. so there is a great deal of work to be done by the greek presidency. however, well done lithuania! small is beautiful, as ireland knows.
the president, of course, did not come to the commission at first but was led to recommend to my own group, the epp, that they do so today. that was before i was born. i'm sorry to report that to mr. winkler. we are of course always talking to the european parliament about the importance of research and in particular, we aim to allocate 3% of the 2014-2020 budget to research and development. i will not be a thorn in the side of the king's son, nor will i be a thorn in the side of the council, but i will obey its laws. it is therefore important to make the best use of the resources we have. i would like to cooperate with other regions, especially in the field of research, as they will be able to develop. it's not important.
i was very happy to have the support of my group in all the many things. however, it is important that we do everything we can to reduce co2 emissions in all areas of life, especially as we work to reduce the impact of climate change on the planet. therefore, the commission will focus on the transport and storage of waste, especially in the case of various vehicles that emit a lot of co2 into the atmosphere. at the same time, we are convinced that the industrial revolution is coming. therefore, by having a target to reduce these emissions gradually, there will be an industrial in an effort to do so and there will be a solution to these problems. therefore, i was anxious to take care of the laws and regulations and i hope that they will be good for us in the future.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report, the objectives which were set by the commission of 147gr of co2 per km are achievable. it is a balanced report overall in that what we have proposed will be implemented. light commercial vehicles contribute in excess of 13% of all co2 emissions in the eu. our objective has been to achieve a 60% reduction in these emissions by 2050.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report to set emissions targets for vans in order to help reduce fuel consumption, keep european producers at the forefront of technological innovation, while at the same time benefiting the environment. the vans regulation limits co2 emissions from new vans to a fleet average of 175 g of co2 per km by 2017 – with the target phased in from 2014 – and 147 g/km by 2020. this legislation is a clear win-win for both the consumers and the automotive industry in europe.
in writing. − the 2014-2020 consumer programme will ensure better protection for eu consumers. the funding budgeted for the programme will be used to give eu consumers better information on their rights and the best way of exercising them. the new programme will also mean that consumers, no matter what member state they come from, will enjoy a common set of core consumer rights.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as it clearly aims at aligning the council regulations in the field of imports of olive oil and other agricultural products from turkey with articles 290 and 291 of the tfeu establishing the new regime of delegated acts and implementing acts. i agree that we in the ep should be duly involved in preparation and implementation of delegated acts in order to facilitate the scrutiny of delegated acts. this will ensure an efficient exercise of the delegation of power by avoiding objections from the european parliament and ensuring at the same time the future involvement of the committee on international trade in the exercise of the right of scrutiny.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal for a regulation that lays down rules on the definition, description, presentation and labelling of aromatised wine products as well as on the protection of geographical indications of aromatised wine products. there is a need for an accurate definition of manufactured products and they need to be clearly understood by consumers.
the president, the vice-president and my group voted in favour of this report. freisin, was atthas orm to partake in an ghearr debate and was on an arere subject. you yourself were a chathaoir ag an am sin chomh maith comhghairdeachas leat. they are also closing down the e-health, and closing down more in the future. for example, the number of people who seek medical treatment is increasing by 18.6% per year. freisin, there is a greater challenge to the health system because more people are more sick, and the problem is to be more careful and more careful with the budget because of the economic situation. we can tackle many of the problems without having to do more than just e-health and report on them.
in writing. − the ehealth action plan aims to improve access to healthcare services for people living in remote and sparsely-populated areas, something which is particularly important and relevant to people living in rural communities in ireland. healthcare services are currently under pressure, not just in ireland but across the eu, and improvements need to be made across the board in relation to working conditions, reducing waiting times and ensuring a high-quality service.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because e-health has the potential to improve conditions for patients and healthcare systems. however, it is important that it is a patient-centred e-health approach and that data protection is ensured. it is very important in isolated areas and for older people and can deliver cost savings, an improved health service and improved accessibility to telemedicine.
in writing. − as a former nurse and midwife, i’m all too aware of the challenges facing european healthcare systems today. ehealth has potentially far-reaching benefits for eu citizens. against the backdrop of an ageing population, the impact of chronic illnesses, reduced mobility of patients or medical staff, ehealth can go some way to meeting these challenges. furthermore, i was happy to support the s&d amendments to ensure that access to it tools and training would be tailored for all sectors of the population, including the elderly and the less able, so as to avoid exacerbating social inequalities.
the president was pleased to support the report and voted with my group in favour of all the amendments which were tabled by the committee: the first one was adopted by a large majority and the third by a small majority. i voted for myself and my colleagues in fine gael and i voted against the group. the report was adopted unanimously by 659 votes to 691 with one abstention. as for the laws of the land, i would like to say that it is very important that they should be regulated and that they should be respected. however, as regards the scandal of oil spills in ireland, it is necessary to point out that the commission and the authorities in ireland have made the laws effective and effective, and that there is no good reason for them to do so. and finally, i would like to see more effective pioneer gurus to be available in all kinds of careers.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the food crisis, fraud in the food chain and the control thereof. this calls on the european commission to make the prevention of food fraud an integral part of eu policy. confidence in the irish and european beef sectors was damaged by the horsemeat scandal which came to light in january 2013. such fraudulent activity damages food safety, transparency and the proper functioning of the supply chain. this also damages consumer confidence and could cause instability in agricultural prices. europol observed a rise in the number of food fraud cases and predicts that this will continue. food fraud can involve incorrect labelling of animal species in meat, incorrect labelling of weight, using cheaper and lower quality alternatives for key ingredients, incorrectly labelling ‘use-by’ and ‘best-before’ dates, labelling food as organic which was not grown organically, and fraudulently using quality logos. the monetary gain for participation in food fraud is facilitated by large differences between practices in member states. therefore, given the nature of the single market, a coordinated approach involving collection and exchange of data, exchange of best practices and development of a harmonised definition of food fraud is necessary.
in writing. − i welcome the adoption of the steinruck report on effective labour inspections as a strategy to improve working conditions. according to a recent study, undeclared work accounted for nearly 20% of the wealth produced in europe in 2012. more effective labour inspectorates and cross-border cooperation between inspectorates are needed to protect workers’ rights, create a level playing field for all businesses and boost income tax and social security contributions. we need greater europe-wide cooperation to combat ‘letter box’ companies and ever-lengthening subcontracting chains. i support the establishment of a european platform to fight undeclared work, bringing together national labour inspectorates along with other national enforcement authorities charged with tackling undeclared work, such as tax and social security bodies, as well as the social partners. i particularly welcome the adoption of paragraph 15, which calls for better protection for whistle-blowers and their families in order to facilitate the detection of abuse. i am disappointed, however, that a majority of meps did not support the call to include in eu competition law measures to combat social dumping. i would now urge the commission and the council to respond positively to the recommendations set out in this report.
in writing. − as a former trade unionist, i was happy to support this report, to emphasise the role of labour inspection systems in the fight against undeclared work in the eu. labour inspection is a fundamental part of labour administration. an effective labour inspection able to confront the challenges of a changing labour market is an essential part of good governance. labour inspectors are essential to the enforcement of employees’ rights, the prevention of abuses by unscrupulous employers and the promotion of economic and social development. the economic crisis cannot be an obstacle but an incentive to improve and reinforce labour inspections in order to ensure workers’ protection.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because we need to protect workers as small shareholders, and because the model for ownership of companies is a real incentive to companies to involve employees in profit sharing. good practice on the part of employers encourages employees.
mr president, i agree with the title of the report, which is ‘social protection for all, including self-employed workers’, but a series of fundamental flaws in its content means that i voted against it. the report fails to offer solutions for bogus and involuntary self-employment. with over 15 % of the workforce now self-employed, a growing proportion of these people are in that situation not by choice but because of an inability to find decent employment. well over half of all the jobs created in ireland over the past year have been in self-employment, the vast majority of them being self-employed workers who have no employees. fundamentally, the solution is to strengthen contracts and create decent employment through a massive programme of investment. the report calls for more general implementation of so-called ‘flexicurity’. that is the driving principle that has seen a range of unstable, insecure job programmes created throughout europe, undermining wages and conditions across the board. the report also calls for greater efforts on neo-liberal so-called ‘structural reforms’ and pension reform. in effect, this report supports the on-going dismantling of social security systems. what would be left would be generalised insecurity.
in writing. − the introduction of targets to reduce plastic waste is vitally important, especially for the marine sector as marine litter is a serious and ever-increasing problem, with up to 10 million tons of litter, mostly plastic, ending up in the world’s oceans and seas.
in writing. − the purpose of this own initiative report was to deal with the public policy challenges of plastic waste management currently not addressed by eu waste legislation. when managed correctly plastic waste should be seen as a valuable resource to be reused, recycled and recovered. proper waste management of plastic products and packages helps promote energy efficiency, reduce greenhouse gas emissions and conserve resources.
member of the commission. - mr president, when we talk about public procurement - and this is what we mean by public procurement or concessions - we are talking about what represents 18% of european gdp. it is therefore very important, and if you and i, ladies and gentlemen, believe that the main battle today is that of employment, competitiveness and the fight against unemployment, then we must use, among other tools, what public procurement represents to participate in this battle for employment. that is precisely why, almost four years ago, in february 2010, at my first hearing before you, i expressed my ambition for a fundamental reform of this public procurement. and that is why, a few months later, with the support of your committee - and i would like to thank malcolm harbour in particular - in the single market act, we included this reform, this renewal of public procurement, as one of the main points, a cornerstone of this single market act. the aim was to ensure that there was more flexibility, less bureaucracy, especially for small and mediumsized enterprises, which are often discouraged from participating in tenders because it is too expensive to do the paperwork and also to qualify the public procurement. i was, as you know, president of a region, of a department in my own country, i launched many tenders and i often regretted the lack of security when my teams and i chose the best in terms of social, environmental, innovation. malcolm harbour was the first person to ask me about the usefulness of public procurement to encourage innovation. we wanted to call this public procurement to encourage, not always the least-talking, but in any case, systematically the best-talking. i would like to take a few moments to thank mr tarabella and mr juvin, who cannot be with us today, all the non-existent rapporteurs and members of your committee who have been involved in all this work, and the danish, cypriot, irish and lithuanian presidencies. a few words on public procurement first, simplified rules that are more efficient and more modern, new rules that will support, through public procurement, environmental protection, innovation, social inclusion, and also respect for social and labour law. this is a point to which your rapporteur, mr tarabella, has given particular care and attention. secondly, a very important point, especially for several groups among you, in particular, the access of small and mediumsized enterprises to public contracts, the limitation of the requirements of financial capacity and the incentive to divide the markets into lots to promote precisely the access of smes to these public contracts. we secure, we simplify. social and similar services will benefit from a new simplified system. as mr tarabella said, cooperation between public authorities will be secured and preserved, and the integrity of procedures will also be strengthened. all this work to simplify and qualify public procurement must be seen in the context of another ambition which is very important to make sense of things, namely the digitisation and dematerialization of public procurement. with new directives, electronic publication of contract notices and electronic access to documents will become progressively mandatory, starting in early 2016, and then in 2017 for purchasing centres, before a generalization of this digitisation, this dematerialization in mid-2018. ladies and gentlemen, these changes, the fact that we are moving from paper to electronic, in all public authorities and states, will lead, if we do our job well, to - listen to me - 80 to 100 billion savings every year. these are good savings, this is money that we can use to make investments in research, in education or infrastructure rather than in paperwork, 80 to 100 billion euros a year of savings thanks to the digitization of public procurement. that is why, in connection with this major project, i have put to you a proposal on electronic invoicing which i support and which i hope will be concluded before the end of your term of office. as for the concessions, a few words on the continuation of what mrs róźa thun said on behalf of mr philippe juvin. we also needed a clear and flexible legal framework at european level to encourage investment. i think that concession procedures can help to solve the sometimes important dilemma between the need for quality public services and the use of private investment, but only if we have rules that frame things across europe in a fair and consistent way. we wanted to do that and we succeeded in doing so because there was no european consistency before and many states had either no legislation at all or different legislation on concessions. we also know that with this new framework, we can fight for more transparency and better governance. some practices, such as corruption, will be better regulated and fought. what we wanted to do together with this text on concessions was to bring more simplicity, more flexibility without prejudicing the prerogatives of private and public entities. i would like to make it clear, echoing debates which took place in particular on the question of water and which led me to propose the withdrawal of this sector from the directive to avoid controversy: the directive on concessions does not interfere with the powers of national and local authorities to define the public service obligations they consider necessary, as well as the way in which they are financed. the new provisions which you are about to vote on will not affect the freedom of the public authorities to choose independently how they wish to carry out the tasks entrusted to them. and this is particularly true of water, which, in my view, has always been a public good. the adoption of these texts at first reading is proof of your commitment, of our commitment, to simplifying, qualifying and better using public procurement in the service of jobs and growth. as mr tarabella said, the member states must now implement these provisions within the agreed time-limits so that all local, private and public actors can take ownership of the new provisions. it is also to facilitate this appropriation that i would be pleased to invite you to a public conference we are organising on 19 march in brussels, precisely to explain the content of these two texts and the good use that can be made of them. we will be convening this conference on 19 march, with you and your rapporteurs and president malcolm harbour, to speak directly to those who will have to use these important texts which will be a cornerstone of simplification and the relaunch of the single market, for which i thank you very sincerely.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs. − mr president, right now in ireland we have a major scandal breaking which illustrates the reality of how public procurement functions, as opposed to the nice legal theory whereby everybody wins. to be blunt, in many cases it is simply a means for the political establishment to allow their big-business, big-corporation friends to enrich themselves by feasting at a trough filled with taxpayers’ money. we have the process of the attempted privatisation of the irish water supply and the imposition of water charges: yet another austerity tax. last year the irish government lied through its teeth to the people, saying that the property tax would go to fund local services, only then for them to be told that it would actually go to the setting-up of irish water, a new company which will levy that tax. in the last week it has emerged that the money has actually gone to line the pockets of major corporations, to the tune of up to eur 80 million, through a public procurement process. it is a bonanza for consultants, major accountancy firms and major law firms. almost eur 50 million will go to ibm; close to eur 20 million will go to accenture; ernst & young will get close to eur 5 million; mccann fitzgerald will get eur 1 million; a&l goodbody will get eur 3 million; kpmg will get over eur 2 million. none of that has come out because of a process of democratic accountability, or through scrutiny or transparency; it has been dragged out, bit by bit, from irish water in the media. a week ago the managing director said that all contracts were awarded after an open competition. now it has been revealed that four suppliers were awarded contracts without any competition. this is happy for all of them, but not for the taxpayer, who is paying for this process of privatisation over public good. once an asset has been commodified, it will be privatised. as part of that process, we have councils voting to hand over water assets to this company, which will then in turn be sold for a song. this is a new frontier in a battle to push privatisation and transfer public wealth into private hands. public procurement and privatisation must be resisted.
the president, i must say, has enjoyed a good debate on this subject, particularly in the light of reports by mr tarabella and others like mr malcolm harbour, chairman of the committee on the internal market and the committee on consumer protection, and commissioner barnier, who has done a great deal on this subject. madam president, we have seen how public procurement is so important. for instance, in trying to get free trade agreements with countries like japan, it has certainly been a stumbling block. thankfully we are now getting to grips with our own public procurement, and i think the new proposals are going to be tremendously beneficial to european industry. i come to this from the point of view of the committee on industry, research and industry, of which i am honoured to be a member, and particularly in relation to four areas: smes, innovation, energy efficiency and fiscal responsibility. it is good that we are simplifying the process so that smes can benefit, particularly through the facility to break contracts into smaller lots. that, too, will help smes, on which we are so dependent to get out of the economic crisis and create jobs and growth in the economy. innovation is a very important area, because procurement has a responsibility in driving technological progress. we have seen that with regard to the jet engine, computers, the internet, etc., and again, innovation is crucial to our future and especially the competitiveness of europe. on energy efficiency, we have to meet the 2020 targets, and i welcome the rules on that. regarding fiscal responsibility, life cycle costs as well as upfront costs have to be taken into consideration.
madam president, i would like to welcome this. contractors will be bound by labour, social and environmental obligations, which must also be respected by any subcontractors, in accordance with eu and national laws. the specifications and selection criteria which will be allowed in the calls for tender have also been broadened and explicitly allow for the inclusion of social goals. public authorities will no longer be forced to sign up for the cheapest tender, even when it fails to deliver minimum quality standards. ‘penny wise, pound foolish’ approaches often end up costing the public more in the long-term, especially when the lack of quality also undermines other public policy goals. our citizens are entitled to expect quality and value for their tax money. where possible, authorities will now divide contracts into smaller lots, which will open up public procurement markets, which until now were out of reach of many small and medium-sized enterprises due to their scale. provision by public bodies and cooperation between public authorities have been safeguarded from the requirements imposed on market operators. i wish to pay tribute to those who worked so hard on this.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, as shadow of the epp group on this report on recording equipment on road transport (more commonly referred to as the tachograph file), i want to express my delight that we are about to have a final vote tomorrow. the proposal was first published on 19 july 2011, and since then ms silvia-adriana ţicău has worked closely with the shadows and with the irish presidency to reach the final compromise text that we have before the house this evening. in view of the fact that one in four tachographs is manipulated in some way at present, i want to highlight some of the key elements of the tachograph. these new devices, as ms ţicău has said, will use satellite tracking technology to make it easier to check and enforce driving and rest times while reducing the number of roadside checks, meaning that law-abiding transport businesses will benefit. the next generation of tachographs will be fitted to new vehicles within three years of the necessary final technical specifications being defined by the commission. applying equally to all trucks over 3.5 tonnes on eu roads, they will make fraud and tampering more difficult. within 15 years, they will have to be fitted or retrofitted to all eu-registered trucks and buses, and i am delighted that parliament held out against the council on this point. these new tachographs are designed to be much more user-friendly for both drivers and the authorities and will feature easy downloading and even remote checking of suspect data. they will make it even more difficult – and hopefully impossible – for rogue operators and fraudsters. one thing i pushed very hard for was to make sure that the remote control communication must not lead to automatic fines or penalties for the driver or his firm, and i am glad that this is in the final text. when you get to exemptions it is dangerous territory, but i believe we got the balance right. so, to ms silvia-adriana ţicău and her staff, well done. to elvira ramirez in the transport secretariat, well done. to annemarie smith of the irish permanent representation, well done. to the commission, mr kallas and your staff, well done, you did an excellent job. and to the other shadows, i think we all did an excellent job.
madam president, the key words here are ‘reindustrialising’, ‘competitiveness’ and ‘sustainability’. reindustrialising suggests we were industrialised, we lost it and we now need to get it back; this is highly commendable. competitivness and sustainability, i think, are different a kettle of fish and are more problematic. i have come from a meeting where we were discussing the impact of gas prices on fertiliser, and in the course of that discussion, commissioner tajani was quoted as saying that energy prices would lead to an industrial massacre in europe. if he said that, he is probably correct, because on the one hand we have our dependency on russian gas, which they use as a political football, making gas far cheaper for russians and far dearer for us. how can we compete against them? on the other hand we have the americans developing shale gas, with the price of energy going down there and up in europe. how can we compete against them? we have to be far more sustainable, utilise our resources and bring down energy costs before we can become industrialised, let alone reindustrialised.
madam president, i am afraid you will not be congratulating me for my greek, although i wish i could speak it. but you are right that it is very difficult to speak in the chamber at the moment, so i will do my very best. firstly, i would like to say to prime minister samaras how frank your presentation was this morning; how open and honest you are, as a leader of your country, about the situation and about the difficulties that you have gone through and continue to manage. i noticed that people on my left here (although they are on the right) suggested that you are in denial; but i am very sorry, they were clearly not listening to what you were saying. and if there is a problem in politics in europe, colleagues, it is that people do not listen to each other. i am going to repeat that remark. if there is a problem in politics in europe, it is because people do not listen to each other. in this house, people do not listen. they sometimes hear each other, but they do not listen. (applause)we are the makers of the problem, because we failed to listen to those who warned us of problems: we failed in ireland, we failed in greece and we are failing here. if we cannot listen to each other we will fail again. do not let the extremists win because we could not listen with two ears. (applause)
the president has a key role to play in ensuring that the rules governing the employment relationship are complied with. it has an important impact on road safety in the european union. if you look at the figures, every year there are about 6,000 people marveling at the amazing things that hgv has to offer. the european commission has published a report on the implementation of the european union's policy on the environment. it's not driving under the bridge in the rules of the road, so you can't drive for three days and then you have no advantage over those who break the law. there are bad health implications of the drug. mar fhocal scoir, is a phraitický céim chun suport to thabhairt do do na fiontair bheaga agus mheánmhéide is the togra within.
mr president, it gave me great pleasure to support this report because, as has been said, it is very important to strike a balance between transparency and allowing public authorities an element of flexibility. this report recognises the specific nature of concessions as compared to public procurement contracts, and it supports the balance between, on the one hand, the need for transparency and the introduction of clear rules to ensure equal treatment of economic operators and, on the other hand, the need for flexibility and discretion on the part of public authorities. i welcome the principle of free administration by the member states and public authorities, according to which they are free to decide how best to manage the execution of works and the provision of services. it was very necessary that the principle of subsidiarity was respected and that the member states should have the right to decide whether to perform their tasks with their own resources or to outsource them by delegating them to economic operators. finally, i welcome the right of member states or public authorities to define and specify the characteristics of services to be provided and protected.
mr president, i fully supported this report. it makes the existing rules more flexible and easier to apply. this report encompassed huge work. when you look at it you will see that there were 1 593 amendments as well as seven opinions adopted by different committees, so everybody involved deserves to be congratulated on getting the final product before us today. the deal includes such very welcome improvements as reduced delays for procurement procedures together with mandatory e-procurement for member states. the obligation for the member states to transpose all procedures will create a level playing field. the criteria for tenders will become more economically advantageous and, finally, sme involvement will be facilitated by requiring contracting authorities to divide procurements into lots, in other words to give better access to smes for procurement – in other words, to subcontract work. there will be more work for more companies.
in writing. − i welcome the adoption of the new procurement directive. public authorities spend almost 20 % of gdp on supplies, works and services to meet the needs of citizens. this represents a constant flow of public investment that can be used as a powerful lever for achieving smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. i particularly welcome the introduction of a mandatory social clause guaranteeing respect for labour law and collective agreements. this should ensure better protection for workers’ rights and stop a race to the bottom in terms of pay and working conditions. the new provisions enabling member states to prevent contracting authorities from using price as the only award criterion when granting a contract, as well as the mechanisms for joint and several liability for subcontractors, are also a step in the right direction and i would urge all member states to avail themselves of these options when transposing the directive into national law by 2016. i also very much welcome the new provisions designed to remove barriers that prevent smes, the backbone of our economies, from bidding for contracts, such as the division of large contracts into smaller lots that are more accessible.
in writing. − i welcome the new directive on procurement by entities operating in the water, energy, transport and postal services sectors. public authorities spend almost 20 % of gdp on supplies, works and services to meet the needs of citizens. this represents a constant flow of public investment that can be used as a powerful lever for achieving smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. i particularly welcome the introduction of a mandatory social clause guaranteeing respect for labour law and collective agreements. this should ensure better protection for workers’ rights and stop a race to the bottom in terms of pay and working conditions. the new provisions enabling member states to prevent contracting authorities from using price as the only award criterion when granting a contract, as well as the mechanisms for joint and several liability for subcontractors, are also a step in the right direction, and i would urge all member states to avail themselves of these options when transposing the directive into national law by 2016. i also very much welcome the new provisions designed to remove barriers that prevent smes, the backbone of our economies, from bidding for contracts, such as the division of large contracts into smaller lots.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as it seeks to make the existing rules more flexible and easier to apply, to enable a greater strategic use of public purchasing power (to achieve green, social and innovation-related objectives) and to increase the use of new procurement techniques and tools such as joint buying and e-procurement.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as this is a new instrument which seeks to redress the lack of leverage in the euʼs international negotiations with trading partners and to gain substantial market-access commitments for the benefit of eu business. the proposal, which is based on two pillars, includes a call for an external procurement investigation into alleged restrictive procurement measures.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution to protect wildlife from crime as this is the key reason why species are being driven to extinction. the increase in wildlife trafficking is of particular concern. it is a major cause of biodiversity loss, and this funding will help with enforcement and international cooperation to address this worrying phenomenon. it should also build trust with our partners and show we are serious about fighting biodiversity loss around the globe.
in writing. − i was happy to support this resolution tabled by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety aimed at keeping wildlife high on the political agenda in the eu. the eu is both a significant market and a transit route for the illegal wildlife trade. it is only through a coordinated response by the member states that the eu will be able to tackle wildlife crime more effectively, both internally and at global level.
mr president, this debate reminds me of a song about my own beautiful place – killarney – and it goes like this: an american landed on ireland’s green isle, he looked at killarney and said with a smile, ‘how can i buy this beautiful place? how can i buy killarney?ʼ and he goes on to say that if he had all the money in the world, he could not buy killarney. but now an american or someone like him can actually buy malta – or at least maltese citizenship – without having any connection with the country. this goes against all the principles of what we understand of citizenship and also the principles of equality. this would not be of major concern to us if malta were not part of the european union, but maltese citizenship equates to european union citizenship. if you go through any airport in the european union there will be two lines: one for ‘all passportsʼ and one for eu citizens, and there is no distinction made between the 28 member states. i think this goes against everything we stand for, and i commend particularly commissioner reding for her forthright and courageous comments. we have to exert as much pressure as we can on the maltese to stop this ridiculous proposal. it is making a laughing stock of citizens and particularly, i think, it is saying that some people are born equal but others are more equal than others, and the rich will always dominate. it is a disgrace.
mr president, if you are super rich, need an eu passport and want some good value for money, we have some bargains here for you. we have malta – eur 650 000 with no strings attached. but malta, of course, is not alone. we have charitable ireland – a eur 500 000 investment in a public project in return for a guaranteed residency permit; cyprus – eur 3 million for an investment; britain – applicants assessed on the basis of a gbp 1 million investment in the uk. it is appalling; it is disgraceful; it is outrageous – but it is not altogether that surprising, because we live in a europe that is dominated by the 1 %, at the cost of the 99 %. it is more outrageous because it is happening at precisely the same time that we have the disgraceful racist scaremongering by many parties of the establishment across europe against romanians and bulgarians. it is disgraceful when you contrast it with the practice of keeping out non-europeans, which has cost the lives of 20 000 people from beyond the southern borders. this is the tale of two europes.
thar ceann an ghrúpa i'm going to. the president thanked the rapporteur and the president for the important role they played in preparing the report. and the accession negotiations with iceland, which have been outlined very clearly by previous speakers, opened in july 2010. since then, a lot of work has been done, with 27 chapters opened and ten finalised. however, the events of last year have taken over following the elections in iceland, with the icelandic government adopting a new approach. i am chairman of the joint committee of the european parliament and of the council of the european union, and i would like to be a member of the council of the european union. it is, of course, a matter of course that the governments of the member states are aware of the need to take decisions on what laws are best and what should be done to prevent the spread of the disease in the member states. the university of iceland is currently preparing an assessment of the status of the accession negotiations and developments within the eu, and i hope this study will be available to members of the joint parliamentary committee when they meet in iceland on the 24th or 25th march. in the meantime, i believe it is vitally important that the european parliament should continue to have a strong relationship with the althingi (the icelandic parliament) through the joint parliamentary committee. despite the fact that the accession negotiations are now on hold, relations between iceland and the eu remain strong, as has been outlined. the common goal of our work is to develop sustainable policies and to put them into practice. finally, let me say that it would be remiss of me not to mention the disagreement between the coastal states over the joint management of the mackerel stock. let me once again in this house call on all sides to endeavour to reach an agreement on this long-running, unnecessary dispute.
madam president, you are welcome here today, commissioner, to discuss this important issue. as has been said, homelessness is the manifestation of one of the worst forms of extreme material deprivation and poverty. we know that the crisis has led to an increase in the levels of people experiencing poverty, and particularly homelessness. as rapporteur for the fead programme (the fund for european aid to the most deprived), i have had an insight into homelessness in many eu countries. i want to commend the organisations which are delivering services. particularly in my own constituency of dublin, i know that the problem is reaching crisis levels, which is why i welcome the fact that just this week my colleagues on dublin city council rejected proposed cuts in the homeless budget and instead voted through an increase. commissioner, it is estimated that we have about four million homeless people in europe. at the same time, we have no strategy; we have no data collection; we have no programme for the exchange of practice; and, indeed, we really have no programme to plot a common course to end the scourge of homelessness. the lack of a common statistical basis became very much apparent to me during the discussions on the fead programme, and indeed the commission’s rejection of being able to adopt the european typology of homelessness and housing exclusion (ethos) as a way of data collection and statistical analysis into the future. commissioner, it is a pity that the commission has been so reluctant to address the whole issue of developing a homeless strategy, particularly when many member states have been looking for one. we have already had a resolution. we want to know what type of plans you have to follow through on the social investment package. we will, as you say, have a real and meaningful housing-led approach to solving the scourge of homelessness, which is one of the worst forms of poverty and deprivation in the eu.
madam president, homelessness is extremely visible. i walk past a homeless person in brussels every time i walk along the place du luxembourg, so it is not as if we do not see this problem. but it is complex. i think that some of the issues have been mentioned here in relation to evictions, which are new to the stage to some extent, but there are many other issues which cause homelessness, such as domestic violence, poverty, unemployment and mental health issues. we have a lot of information from the european federation of national organisations working with the homeless dealing with this. the research is saying to us very clearly that a housing-led approach is a better solution to the problem than anything else. however, it requires all the stakeholders to accept that, and it also needs to be implemented. this is happening in some cases: for example, in ireland we are beginning to talk about a new-build programme. but housing must be in the right locations. we might have properties available but in the wrong locations. but i am glad we are having this debate.
madam president, the crisis of homelessness is a graphic illustration of the fact that europe is moving rapidly in the wrong direction in terms of the conditions of the people. on any given night, up to half a million people are homeless, and that figure is on the rise: in france it is up 50 % since 2001; in portugal and spain, up 30 % since the start of the crisis; in greece, up; in ireland, homelessness in dublin is said by some estimates to have trebled over the past year. there are multiple reasons for homelessness, no question about that, but let us name one fundamental underlying cause: it is the austerity proposed and supported by the commission and governments all across europe, resulting in declining income, in evictions (as in spain), and in the dismantling of social support. saying that the right to a home is a real right means saying that it takes priority over the rights of the bankers and the landlords to profiteer: it means investing in shelters, in homes and in forms of social support.
madam president, commissioner, in your opening remarks you said that the priority is to abolish substandard shipping, and in that regard i want to thank you for tackling an issue i raised with you about the mary kate, a vessel in ireland, and the associated risks for nine other ships that are probably sailing the seas at the moment. it took a long time but i want to thank you, on public record, for your very detailed response, which i hope will save lives. in relation to the environmental debate here this morning, it is clear that the ‘polluter pays’ principle is one which is not put into practice. what we are trying to put in place is a means of making people responsible for their actions when these damage the environment. that requires definitions and legal clarity, but the enormous toll when there is damage to communities and the marine environment is too serious to be left in legal limbo.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as it supports the communication plans outlined in the europe 2020 strategy to adopt the new growth model. this communication therefore proposes a fresh approach to industrial policy that will strengthen eu competitiveness, provide growth and jobs, and enable the transition to a low-carbon and resource-efficient economy. the recent crisis has hit european economies hard, particularly the industrial sector, and the new concept of industry as being sustainable, efficient and innovative is very important and strategic.
in writing. − europe’s industrial sector faces a serious challenge in terms of the deterioration of smes’ credit access, particularly in europe’s periphery. these financial difficulties are felt most acutely by the eurozone countries that were hit the hardest by the crisis, where companies face much higher default risks and borrowing costs. the european central bank has been providing the eurozone financial sector with unprecedented levels of assistance, as was seen with emergency liquidity assistance channelled through national central banks. industrial businesses urgently need credit lines, yet the financial sector is not forthcoming with help on foot of a crisis of its making, as its recklessness led to the depletion of its capital reserves. the ecb and the troika have shown very little appetite to force banks to pass on the liquidity they engorge at the cheapest rates from the european central bank, aggravating the breakdown of the money transmission mechanism. the ecb must extend the decisiveness and generosity it has shown to finance to our smes and provide direct credit lines to those who contribute to employment and growth in the real economy, and who were often used as a justification to save banks from their self-inflicted woes.
in writing. − i supported this proposal because i believe we need to look at the specific situation of islands and overseas departments. the commission has investigated and deemed it proportionate. there are no other member states producing rum and the competition with other alcohols is very limited. the reduction of certain indirect taxes will help producers to deal with higher shipping costs and will allow producers of traditional rum an opportunity to access european markets. after all, that is what the eu is about, free trade and i believe this outcome promotes free trade.
in writing. − i am pleased that the parliament has sent a clear signal to the council to say we are against the placing on the market of genetically modified maize, zea mays l., line 1507. while the parliament has no authority to stop the procedure because the commission has said the proposal is within its powers – nonetheless we have sent a political message to the member states before they take their final decision.
a uachtaráin, bhí áthas orm tacaíocht a thabhairt do mo ghrúpa ins na vótaí anseo inniu agus is léir freisin go raibh tromlach na bhfeisirí ar chomhfhocal faoi: 560 as 626 a vótáil i bhfabhar na tuarascála. tugann sé seo teachtaireacht dhíreach láidir don rialtas i málta nach bhfuilimid sásta leis an méid atá idir lámha acu. níl aon chiall dá laghad go mbeadh aon duine ar domhan in ann saoránacht a cheannach, sa chás seo má bhíonn eur 650 000 d’airgead aige. tá sé sin olc a dhóthain, ach sa chás seo ní bhíonn fiú amháin ar an duine maireachtaint i málta. dá bhrí sin is ceart dúinn dul ina choinne. níl sé féaráilte; níl sé cothrom; agus ní féidir cur suas leis mar is saoránaigh eorpacha gach aon duine i málta chomh maith agus pribhléidí acu dá bharr.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution which follows the april 2013 agreement on the normalisation of relations between belgrade-pristina under the eu-facilitated dialogue and kosovoʼs launch of negotiations for a stabilisation and association agreement (saa) with the eu. this resolution stresses the importance of its full implementation. it also welcomes the efficient allocation of additional eu funding under the instrument for pre-accession assistance in support of the implementation of the agreement. we hope that this resolution ultimately improves the effectiveness, transparency, accountability and impartiality of the judicial system and strengthens the rule of law, among other issues in kosovo.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the joint resolution on an eu homelessness strategy. focus ireland estimates that there are up to 5 000 homeless people at any one time in ireland. according to a report on homelessness compiled by the irish central statistics office, when the last census was taken in ireland on 10 april 2011, 3 808 people were in accommodation providing shelter for homeless persons or were identified sleeping rough. while the individual member states are responsible for combating homelessness, the development of an eu homelessness strategy could assist member states by, for example, sharing best practices and developing opportunities for mutual learning, making measures to tackle homelessness a priority across all relevant eu policy areas and making funding streams available. i voted in favour of an amendment that calls for an end to the criminalisation of homelessness in certain member states. the poorest and most vulnerable members of our society must be protected rather than being victimised further. we risk the continuation of a failure to respect the fundamental human dignity of every person unless we act now to develop an eu-wide strategy to address homelessness.
in writing. − housing is a fundamental right. the material deprivation and severe exclusion that the lack of a secure roof entails also makes it impossible to enjoy other basic rights. i find the emerging consensus over the effectiveness of housing-led approaches to homelessness an encouraging development. in our experience in the recent past, while many believed the property market would prosper forever, homelessness increased, many found themselves paying astronomical rents for inappropriate houses, waiting lists for council housing grew longer and longer and millions were spent in emergency, temporary accommodation. there is room for a more significant eu role to assist member states in their efforts to eradicate homelessness. we need the commission to heed our call for a common strategy based on the provision of secure housing, without sacrificing a whole range of social efforts to prevent evictions or the emergency support structures that assist those who sleep rough.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, thankfully, within europe we do not discriminate against people based on sexual orientation. i think attitudes are improving constantly so that people are judged on their values and characteristics, rather than their sexual orientation. we must always work to spread those values across the world, in general. but actually we see situations getting worse, particularly – as has been highlighted – in uganda and nigeria, where lgbti people are being criminalised. certainly we must use every influence we can to get those laws repealed. we have a certain amount of power, through the help we give to many of these countries, to ensure that that actually becomes the situation. within europe, we have russia: a modern superpower, but a modern superpower with an outdated, narrow-minded attitude to sexuality. we can see by the laws that they are passing, particularly under mr putin. certainly what they are trying to do at the winter olympics is despicable. i commend countries which do not accept this and which ensure that people will be going to the olympics from all classes of society.
member of the commission. - madam president, on behalf of the commission it is indeed a great pleasure to be given this opportunity to discuss this proposal today. this proposal for a directive is the result of excellent work at all levels. the commission appreciates the contributions of the institutions and believes that the final text reflects the common objective of protecting the health and safety of workers in europe. this collaborative approach allowed an agreement with the council at first reading. the rapporteur of the committee on employment and social affairs worked in close cooperation with the council in order to bring to the table today a common agreed text that seeks to guarantee a continuation of the high level of protection of workers from possible risks due to exposure to chemicals at the workplace. the improvements to the proposal, which were agreed during the negotiations, result in a text which is not only clearer from a legal perspective but also simpler to understand. this will make a significant and positive contribution in facilitating transposition and implementation at national level, thereby improving the protection of workers’ health and safety. the need for this directive follows on from the adoption of a new system within the eu for chemical classification packaging and labelling. this new system was adopted in 2008 and will progressively come into force over the next few years. this new system implements the united nations’ globally harmonised system of classification and labelling of chemicals within the european union. this directive not only ensures a high level of workers’ health and safety but also makes a significant and positive contribution to the more global approach to the terminology used in chemical regulation. as such, this is a welcome contribution to improving the common understanding on chemical risk-management issues, not only in the eu but also with our key trading partners across the world. to support this initiative the commission has published a range of guidance material. this will assist employers and workers in managing the practical reality of the transition from the pre-existing to the new system for chemical packaging and labelling. this guidance is available free of charge via the commission’s website. it was of course developed in consultation with our tripartite stakeholders.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, i want to thank the rapporteur for her pragmatic approach to this legislation. i think what we are doing here is enhancing health and safety regulations for workers. we in europe adopted the un globally harmonised system of classification and labelling of chemicals in 2005. that is important for the health and safety of workers both at an eu level and indeed at a global level. currently we have five directives on health and safety which still use the old references to the old eu classification system. therefore they needed to be aligned to the new legislation and that is what we have done. we have updated the references and the terminology to reflect the new system that we are now using. i am fully in agreement with the list of vulnerable workers that we have added to the list. the rapporteur listed them; young workers, pregnant workers, etc. i also fully agree with the recommendation that explanatory guidelines and guidance be available to smes. finally, while no additional requirements were imposed, we have made it clear that the health and safety of workers is not a constraint on business but is in fact a fundamental right.
madam president, in ireland in the last few days we have had two deaths linked to a phenomenon on facebook called ‘neknomination’. i am not sure of the translation of that to other languages but it is basically where someone dares someone to drink a pint of alcohol and takes a video of it. in that game, people are going ever further and taking ever greater risks. i want to read the comment of the brother of one of those who died in recent days. ‘my young 19-year-old brother died tonight in the middle of his nomination. he thought he had to try and beat the competition and after he necked his pint he jumped into the river. if people have any decency and respect they will refrain from any more of this stupid neck nomination.’ this is a phenomenon on facebook, so it is global. ireland has just had a terrible, terrible two cases linked to it. facebook needs to respond and we as adults need to act.
madam president, leona lamb was born in mount carmel hospital at 12.24 p.m. last friday. after 55 years, she is the last baby of an estimated 78 000 to have been born in mount carmel hospital. this hospital has now closed, because of celtic tiger greed, which saw debts of eur 56 million levied on the hospital. despite being a private hospital, the reality is that 80% of the patients were public patients on public waiting lists, and its closure will force the waiting lists up again. what does it say that mr bruton, the minister for jobs, will boast about creating low-paid jobs but will do nothing to defend the 350 jobs at risk here? doesn’t it say everything that is wrong with the so-called poster child for recovery in europe that, while ordinary people are deprived of service, ordinary workers are deprived of jobs and staff are offered only statutory redundancy only after six months, the previous owner, jerry conlan, is sitting pretty on lots of money in america? i salute those workers who have taken a stand, who have occupied their workplace. the hospital should be taken into public ownership and run as part of the public health service, in the interests of the public and the workers.
madam president, at the end of last year ireland regained its economic sovereignty and its recovery has started, but that recovery is incredibly fragile and needs to be supported. our recovery is very much challenged by ireland’s debt ratio of 120% – 30% of which is ireland’s legacy bank debt. it is widely agreed that the bail-in tools that are available now were not available to ireland back in 2010. indeed, klaus regling told me last week in the european parliament that, had those tools been available to ireland, things could have been very much different. but, in a sense, ireland was asked to take the hit for team europe, as a result of which banks were bailed out and contagion was closed off – but at a cost to the irish taxpayer who was bailed in. in june 2012, it was agreed to break the link between banking and sovereign debt. there is an agreement that ireland would be looked at as a special case for retrospective recapitalisation from the esm. it is really important now, at this critical stage, that europe should honour its commitment and agree to the recapitalisation of the irish bank from the european stability mechanism.
a uachtaráin, ní hé seo an chéad uair go bhfuilimid ag plé an ábhair seo sa pharlaimint agus is dócha nach é an uair dheireanach ach oiread. go minic ar an déardaoin nuair a bhímid anseo pléimid faoi cad atá ag tarlú i dtiortha eile go háirithe an dearcadh atá acu maidir leis an obair seo san afraic agus sa rúis agus cáinimid é sin agus an ceart againn. ach ag an am céanna, caithfimid a bheith ann cúramach go bhfuilimid ag tabhairt cothrom na féinne san aontas do gach uile dhuine mar a dúirt michael cashman – is cuma cén claonadh gnéis atá acu caithfear glacadh le daoine de réir na gcáilíochtaí atá acu. is fear mór spóirt mise agus tá áthas orm gur tháinig a lán dár bpeileadóirí agus iománaithe amach agus dúirt siad go raibh claonadh dearcaidh acu, claonadh gnéis acu ní nach coitianta agus glacadh leis sin. mar sin táimid ag dul ar aghaidh go mall agus caithfimid mar a deirim cothrom na féinne a thabhairt do gach uile dhuine.
madam president, like the other meps, i have been inundated with e-mails claiming that this report represents an attack on the freedom of speech because it condemns homophobia. this is deeply ironic, because in ireland at the moment you have a real attack on the freedom of speech. the national broadcaster rte has censored rory o’neill for calling out homophobia. even worse than that, it has reportedly paid out eur 85 000 in damages to those accused of homophobia. it is an attack by the right-wing conservative forces in ireland, acceded to by rte, and designed to censor debate in advance of a likely referendum on marriage equality. we must refuse to be silenced. when john waters says that gay marriage is a kind of satire, that is homophobia. when breda o’brien says that equality must take second place to the common good, that is homophobia. when the iona institute campaigns against gay marriage because it is ‘gay’ marriage, that is homophobia. in the words of rory o’neill, these people should get the hell out of our lives.
member of the commission. - madam president, i would like to thank the rapporteur, ms lunacek, for her comprehensive report. homophobia and transphobia are indeed violations of human dignity and are incompatible with the values and principles upon which the european union is founded. the commission is aware of the problems faced by lgbt people in europe, including discrimination, violence and harassment, and reiterates its commitment to fight discrimination within the limits of its competencies. however, the main responsibility in this area remains with the member states. as regards the most efficient course of action at eu level, the commission is in favour of a targeted approach, delivering concrete results. providing legal protection and special assistance to victims of homophobic and transphobic discrimination and crime is more likely to have a direct positive impact on the lgbt community than the development of a roadmap. the commission’s assistance to, and monitoring of, member states’ implementation of relevant legislation for lgbt people, such as the employment directive or the directive on victims of crime, is another example of action bringing real benefits to lgbt people. this is how we can make a real difference. also, with its proposal of an equal treatment directive, the commission is insisting on extending the scope of protection from discrimination on all the grounds foreseen under article 19 of the treaty, including sexual orientation, beyond the workplace – for instance, to include access to goods and services, social protection and education. furthermore, as part of an active policy for lgbt equality, the commission has been working closely with member states during the last few years to support their combat against lgbt discrimination. the commission has been providing financial assistance, publications and peer learning. the commission also financially supports ngos and their work to promote equal rights for lgbt people in europe and will continue to do so. lack of access to prevention and health care services and inadequate treatment are frequently a consequence of stigma and discrimination, and often result in health inequalities for lgbt people. the commission is therefore addressing this issue by including good practices within the european portal for action on health inequalities and working with the member states and also at global level, putting the health and well-being of lgbt people in the agenda of the world health organisation. the commission is also supporting dialogue within the world health organisation to ‘depathologise’ transgender and remove it from the category of mental disorders used in the international classification of diseases. the commission will continue to remind member states of their obligations under eu law and will keep fighting homophobia and promoting equality for lgbt people in the european union within the limits of its competencies. thank you mr president and thank you, honourable members, for your continuous support for the commission’s efforts in promoting equality. i again congratulate the rapporteur.
in writing. – homophobia has no place in a modern society or in the eu, and i am pleased that the fact that parliament now recognises that all citizens – regardless of their age, race, sexual orientation, mobility or gender – are entitled to live their lives without discrimination reinforces this idea. the eu already has strategies to combat discrimination in other areas, so it is only proper that this is extended to lgbt circles, something which is long overdue. i congratulate the rapporteur and welcome the adoption of the report.
a uachtaráin, aontaím leis na moltaí seo agus tá siad an-tábhachtach do shaoránaigh trasna na heorpa ar fad. i think that, particularly with the development of the internet, there are wonderful opportunities for e-commerce etc., and that is something we would encourage, but there is also a downside to everything. certainly in my work in parliament over the last number of years, i have come across a number of directory scams in particular, and i helped one individual who had suffered hugely as a result of this. thankfully, the matter has now been resolved with cooperation from the commission and others, but it points to the need to have unitary implementation of the directive across the european union. that is the first point. the second is the need for some kind of method whereby consumers become aware of their rights and the help that is available, because many times they are not aware of that. if we work on that particular aspect we can encourage e-commerce for the benefit of smes and for the benefit of consumers.
mr president, i would like to thank mrs gallo and the colleagues who worked with her to achieve this first reading agreement. the agreement is good news for artists, consumers and all collective rights management organisations committed to equitable and transparent remuneration of music creators and performers. many of us have been waiting for a long time for much-needed improvements in copyright governance at european level, so it is a very welcome first step. it will now be possible to put in place a cross-border licence for music works, while collective rights management organisations, such as collecting societies, will be bound by transparency and governance rules to guarantee the prompt and equitable distribution of our artists’ remuneration. this is the kind of approach that we need to see emulated in european intellectual property regimes for other collective creative areas, to achieve a digital single market worthy of its name, stimulating innovation and better consumer access to those works across national borders.
mr president, as commissioner barnier, the commissioner responsible for the internal market, has said, over the past four years we have had to re-engage in the process of reconstructing our financial market regulations after the near collapse of the global financial sector, with consequences that are still painfully felt by our citizens. that regulatory vacuum was very much a source of pride to his predecessor, charlie mccreevy, who continued to defend it in front of this chamber as financial institutions floundered in late 2008. while many of the compromises we had to reach within parliament and with the eu council of ministers to rebuild our financial regulation regimes did not go as far as i, and many colleagues, wished, this piece of legislation is one that i fully endorse. insider dealing and market abuse will now be a criminal offence in all member states. we need the full force of criminal law to deter grievous abuses by players in a sector where a sense of ethics is fundamentally lacking and recklessness has been glorified. the libor scandal is a recent case ... (the president cut off the speaker.)
in writing. - i voted in favour of the amendment to regulation 2368/2002 to enable greenland’s participation in the kimberley process (kp) certification scheme on rough diamonds. i agree with the proposal that sets out special rules for transit to greenland and enables greenland’s participation in the committee for the implementation of the regulation and its representation in the kp and cooperation with other member states through the commission.
in writing. - i voted in favour of amendment to regulation 2368/2002 to enable greenlandʼs participation in the kimberley process (kp) certification scheme on rough diamonds. i agree with the proposal that sets out special rules for transit to greenland and enables greenlandʼs participation in the committee for the implementation of the regulation and its representation in the kp and cooperation with other member states through the commission.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because it establishes common requirements and technical frameworks for credit transfers and direct debits in euros. this is another important step towards the realisation of a single euro payments area (sepa), which i support.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because it facilitates freer, better circulation of information and public documents within the eu, which simplifies the life of citizens and businesses.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution as it better aligns eu legislation with un legislation in this issue, improving safety systems designed to identify hazardous chemicals and better informing users about safety symbols, labels and guidelines.
in writing. - online music streaming websites are a mechanism through which the rights of artists can be respected while consumers still benefit from access to music. this report represents the adaption of the rules of intellectual property to the digital era in order to benefit both rights holders and consumers. from an irish perspective, the importance of modernising the copyright law to benefit both the artists and consumers in the digital era can be seen from the recent report on modernising copyright published by the independent copyright review committee. music streaming websites offer a better experience for consumers than the inconsistent, fragmented and illegal option of illegal downloading, while artists also benefit from royalties. the new rules will facilitate legal music streaming across the eu, rather than having a fragmented service from one member state to another. under the new rules, streaming sites would be able to obtain licences from collective management organisations representing artists across multiple member states. we welcome the provisions in this report which strengthen the rights of individual artists, including requirements for collective management organisations to pay the rights-holders appropriate remuneration in a timely fashion.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report as i agree that there need to be rules ensuring better governance and greater transparency of all collecting societies and facilitating the multi-territorial licensing of the rights of authors of musical works. in doing so this also simplifies the pan-european licensing of musical works and reduces transactional costs for users, and it provides equal access to markets for all repertoires.
the president was pleased to support the report and certainly commended arlene mccarthy for the work she has done. he said that if he goes to work, he'll go to his own country to do things right; if he goes to work, he'll go to his own country. i want to focus on the two molasses here and how they're going to make the molasses go to hell. the first: to imprison at least four years of those who have taken part in the middle east's internal trade, and also to imprison those who have been caught in the middle of the conflict. is maith an moladh is sin. an dara ceann: go mbeadh prison ar feadh dhá bhliain tuillte ag duine a thug eolas míchruinn do in húdaráis nuair is gá dóibh, agus dualgas orthu, eolas cruinn a thabhairt. an dara ceann: go mbeadh cárison ar feadh dhá bhliain tuillte ag duine a thug eolas míchruinn do in húdaráis nuair is gá dóibh, agus dualgas orthu, eolas cruinn a thabhairt. an dara ceann: go mbeadh carcer ar feadh dhá bhliain tuillte ag duine a thug eolas míchruinn do in húdaráis nuair is gá dóibh, agus dualgas orthu, eolas cruinn a thabhairt. cabhróidh an dá mholadh without le things to right away.
in writing. - i welcome the adoption of the market abuse directive, which establishes for the first time european-wide criminal sanctions against white-collar crimes such as insider dealing, the unlawful disclosure of inside information and market manipulation. this directive establishes european-wide criminal sanctions including fines and imprisonment of four years for insider dealing/market manipulation and two years for the unlawful disclosure of inside information. it explicitly bans the manipulation of benchmarks, such as euribor and libor, which can result in significant losses for consumers and distort the real economy. while we did have to compromise with the member states on some parts, the directive will make sure that those who commit market abuse will face huge fines or jail terms. it will no longer be possible to get away with administrative sanctions. member states will be free to introduce tougher sanctions if they so wish. in transposing this directive into national law by mid-2016, i would urge all member states to avail themselves of the option to also include offences involving recklessness or serious negligence. i would also urge the uk to opt in to this legislation so that the sanctions it provides will apply in northern ireland.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report as it is only fair market practice that all member states provide minimum rules on the definition of the most serious market abuse offences and on minimum levels of criminal sanctions attached to them.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because it effectively replaces and improves upon the existing council regulation (eu, euratom) no 617/2010, which was rejected by the european court of justice (case c-490/10) after the european parliament contested its legal basis. this regulation establishes an improved common framework for supplying the commission with data on investment projects in energy infrastructure.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because it ensures better law-making, enhanced regulatory fitness and a more measured approach to smes. burdensome legislation that hinders smes and growth needs to be reassessed where possible.
mr president, i was proud to vote in favour of the lunacek report for an eu roadmap against homophobia. this is particularly timely in relation to the debate that is taking place in ireland at the moment. recently a young gay activist and drag queen appeared on irish television and expressed his view that groups and individuals that have traditionally opposed lgbti rights, particularly in relation to marriage and family rights, were homophobic. the groups and the individuals sued, the television station paid out immediately, and there is now a real fear that this will stymie debate on the issues in ireland. ireland is currently passing adoption legislation to enable gay couples to adopt, and next year we will have a referendum on same-sex marriage. it will be important that we can have those debates in calm and reasoned environments. i believe that the lunacek report presents a roadmap for member states to ensure non-discrimination against lgbti people, and i hope that the commission and member states will move to implement its recommendations as soon as possible.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report as it promotes and ensures that there is equality on grounds of sexual orientation and gender identity. i discourage unfair discrimination on such grounds and agree that equality within the eu needs to be stood up for.
in writing. - on the grounds of subsidiarity, i abstained on the alternative motion for resolution tabled by the epp, s&d, alde, greens and gue (amendment 2) on the lunacek report. i supported the efd alternative motion for resolution (amendment 1). i voted against the original report.
the president was pleased to support the report and would like to see more votes on all the reports. i voted myself and my colleagues in fine gael against our group in two votes: is iad sin leasú 2 agus leasú 1 in ainm ghrúpa na sóisialaithe agus na ndaonlathaithe. but they're not going to do it. they're going to do it in a way that makes them feel like they're being treated. sin is an pointe is importants. taobh amuigh de sin bhíomar sásta glacadh leis an rún agus go háirithe nuair a deir an rapóirtéir rochefort gur ceart an pionós to be níos mó ná an brabús a dhéanann daoine trí iompar mídhleathach. (the police are not allowed to use the police force in the city of rochefort.)
in writing. - i voted in favour of this as i agree that directive 2005/29/ec concerning unfair business-to-consumer commercial practices in the internal market (ucpd) adopted in 2005 needs additional attention with respect to its proper application in practice and in compliance with the full harmonisation principle. this guidance document also needs to be updated regularly in order to reflect new practices appearing on the market.
in writing. - i voted against this report as i am concerned about the possible misuse of the project (non-equitable treatment of ms, the use of this instrument for political purposes) and wish to keep the js to its original purpose.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, as it is essential that we try to reach our ambitious targets for 2030 for energy efficiency and renewable energies as well as for greenhouse gas emissions. the member states must therefore invest in local smart grids by using the european structural and investment funds. i welcome a shift within the eu in the way energy is produced and consumed.
i wrote it. - in ireland, many people are not particularly interested in education, and there are many important educational activities outside the education system. the small farms and families that are the main agricultural sector in ireland are still struggling to cope with the increasing costs, the high levels of competition in the market and the laws and regulations that govern the administration. is bunchloch in your area are small farms in your area, and they provide employment in your community, they provide biodiversity and they provide quality products in your community, and they provide quality in your community. the annual family farm holiday in the united nations is an annual event which aims to highlight the importance of family farming to those who work on small farms and family farms in ireland, and to encourage the farmers to take part in the annual family farm holiday. there are further differences in the way in which the small firms are defined in the eu and in the member states in the lists provided for in regulation ii to ensure the development of small firms and to ensure the proper management of households.
in writing. - i supported this report as i agree that we need an action plan for the european steel industry to help this sector confront today’s challenges and lay the foundations for future competitiveness by fostering innovation and creating growth and jobs. maintaining competitive european steel production plays a strategic role in ensuring economic growth and jobs in europe.
mr president, as many before me have made clear here today, parliament will not tolerate yet another old school and convoluted agreement cobbled up among member state governments at the behest of the most powerful among them. only a common eu solution can realistically prevent a repetition of the costly financial and banking disasters of our recent past. we know that very well in ireland. as we said in december, our position stands: no deal is better than a bad deal. the council of ministers would have us leave failing banks festering until 2020, without any common backstop whatsoever, before national resolution funds begin to merge into a single resolution fund. that means that individual, vulnerable member states would again be liable to falling prey to isolation and costly bailouts at their taxpayers’ expense, the link between banking and sovereign banks would not be severed and, at the same time, people would end up paying for systemic failures that were also the responsibility of much bigger banks abroad. the eu banking union must be worthy of its name.
mr president, i think disagreement is probably the appropriate word to describe tonight’s debate and it was likewise in my group discussions, despite the excellent work of anne delvaux. there are, of course, no irrefutable arguments as to the way forward. we have opinions, but we do not have irrefutable arguments. but one thing is very clear. firstly, we must avoid a situation where, as commissioner tajani said, europe becomes an industrial wasteland because of lack of competitiveness. secondly, we need to wean ourselves off imported fossil fuels. there are different views on how we do that. my country actually favours three binding targets because we feel that without binding targets, renewables in particular will be moved off the map and weak governments will submit to pressure from various groups and take the easy option of continuing to import fossil fuels, rather than taking the correct and strong decisions we need to ensure we are competitive into the future.
mr president, like the previous speakers, i would like to congratulate my friend and colleague, georges bach, on the excellent work he has done on this report. as we know, the aviation industry has undergone significant changes in recent years, which are associated with an increase in the number of passengers and flights in the liberalised european market. this is a good thing, especially for an island nation like ireland, which depends a lot on aviation. but it does need regulation, and a regulation fit for purpose. we all know of a number of unfair practices and reductions in the quality of services with negative consequences for travellers. since the entry into force of the regulation in 2004, there have been problems in relation to the variation in interpretations resulting from grey areas and gaps in the current 2004 regulation. passengers have difficulty, first of all, in enforcing their rights when air carriers are in breach of the legislation and, on many occasions, passengers are not even aware of their rights, as airlines are not providing the information needed. this parliament has already expressed its opinions on several occasions about the above points in the context of its resolutions adopted in 2012. i therefore welcome the clarity that this report brings, the bands of compensation, the ability to correct spelling mistakes in a name within 48 hours and not to be charged for it, and the abolition of the over-stringent one-bag rule. this should help smaller airports, in particular, to continue to grow and develop. these measures are so essential to outermost regions, like the regions that i represent.
mr president, faced with the behaviour displayed by some airlines often conveyed to me by many constituents in ireland, this review of eu air passenger rights legislation is most timely. too often airlines fail to offer passengers the assistance that current eu legislation binds them to, exploiting the gaps in enforcement by national enforcement bodies and exploiting passengers’ lack of knowledge of their rights over issues of legal interpretation. the number of high-profile eu court cases brought over these rules clearly demonstrates the need to tighten our rules and clarify the definition of extraordinary circumstances beyond the air carrier’s control. compensation for long delays is explicitly introduced on foot of the retrospective ecg court ruling and will have simpler trigger points for assistance. i look forward to seeing the legislation in place.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report as it is important to protect undocumented women in the eu, since many women are in vulnerable situations especially when bearing the responsibility of care for children or other relatives. also, undocumented women seem to represent a specific target to sexual exploitation and similar problematic situations. the report elaborates on these as well as on linked issues and solutions are proposed.
madam president, i choose to support this report, although ireland does not currently operate a dedicated scheme for the admission of third-country nationals for the purpose of seasonal work. indeed, neither ireland nor the united kingdom exercised their option to participate in the measure pre its adoption, although it is open to both countries to do so once the measure has been adopted. the purpose of the proposal is excellent. it is to introduce a special procedure for third-country nationals applying to reside in the european union for seasonal employment and to define the rights of seasonal workers. it is very important that these rights of seasonal workers are protected right across the eu. the measure establishes a fast-track procedure for admission – a maximum of 90 days, for example – based on a common definition and common criteria: in other words, a work contract or binding job offer. the text also covers re-entry of a seasonal worker in a subsequent season, the protection of the worker’s safety and health and the working conditions and duties of the employer, for example accommodation and change. all of this has to be respected, so i believe this is an excellent measure.
in writing. - i welcome the adoption of the new directive on seasonal workers, the first adopted using the eu’s post-lisbon role in legal migration. this directive harmonises the conditions of entry and residence of migrant workers entering the eu for seasonal work. member states remain responsible for deciding the numbers entering. while the text does not go far enough in some areas, i believe that a good compromise has been reached. this is the first piece of eu legislation aimed at protecting low-skilled/low-paid employment from exploitation. it guarantees the right of all third-country national seasonal workers to adequate accommodation, to extend their stay with the same employer and/or to change employer at least once during their stay, and to compensation when a seasonal worker has their authorisation withdrawn due to actions of the employer. while ireland does not currently operate a dedicated scheme for the admission of third-country nationals for the purposes of seasonal work and has not opted in to this legislation, i would urge the irish government to give serious consideration to opting in to this directive at a future date.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report as it clarifies and introduces a special procedure for third-country nationals applying to reside in the eu for seasonal employment, also benefiting the workers as the rights of seasonal workers are outlined. it can be noted as a success that member states are able to decide themselves on the figures for admission.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this regulation, as we must acknowledge the recent efforts made and actions taken by bolivia and georgia and support lifting the import prohibitions on atlantic bigeye tuna and its products which had been imposed on those two countries.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution as it builds on previous legislation that ensured the continued consultation, communication and dialogue between the parties as they seek to realise common interests.
in writing. - having your home or business damaged by natural catastrophes such as flooding or storms is an extremely traumatic experience. thousands of people across ireland have experienced such damage over recent weeks in ireland. thousands of people in dublin, such as people along the river dodder, find it all but impossible to get insurance, despite the fact that millions have been spent on flood defences in the area over recent years. the european commission’s 2009 white paper on adapting to climate change suggested publicly-supported insurance schemes where no insurance exists and concluded that, due to the cross-border effects of climate change, there may be merit in promoting a european-wide insurance scheme. the 2012 report entitled natural catastrophes: risk relevance and insurance coverage in the eu 28 concluded that ‘there are cases where natcat [natural catastrophe] insurance markets do not seem to fully cope with existing risks’. i would therefore take issue with the view that there is no market distortion in this field to justify european intervention, and i would urge the commission to give serious consideration to proposing a european-wide insurance scheme to guarantee cover for flood-risk homes.
madam president, like the previous speaker, i voted in favour of this report because it is a very innovative report. essentially it is an agreement that is long overdue, between the european union and our neighbour, switzerland. as the previous speaker has said, switzerland is the european’s union’s third largest economic partner and the second largest fdi recipient. therefore, it is important that we have sufficient cooperation for the benefit of the eu’s economy and also for the economy of switzerland. the similarity of rules and practices between the european union and switzerland would certainly aid the implementation of the agreement. the european union should learn from this experience and then, hopefully, proceed with concluding other second-generation agreements with other similar partners.
in writing. - i welcome the european parliament’s approval of the proposal that the council authorise member states to ratify the un arms trade treaty. the treaty is an important first step in regulating and controlling the international trade in conventional arms. the unregulated trade in conventional arms has had a devastating effect on the peace, security and development of some of the world’s most vulnerable countries. it is not acceptable that we have international rules on the trade of foodstuffs but not on conventional arms. international treaties such as this do work – the 1997 landmine treaty has helped reduce landmine casualties by two-thirds and reduced the trade in landmines to almost zero, despite the fact that the us, china, india and russia are not signatories. i welcome the ban on arms transfers if the supplying state has knowledge that the arms will be used for committing genocide, crimes against humanity or war crimes. all the member states should now ratify this treaty as quickly as possible, incorporate it into domestic legislation, reinforce its application through rules such as on regular public reports, and actively support ways of extending its scope to include arms exports-related services and dual-use goods and technology.
madam president, i supported the vote on the commission proposal and also the postponement of the final vote today so that we can have an informal trialogue. the commission’s proposal is good: it aims at modernising both the anti-dumping and the anti-subsidy regulations to prevent the negative consequences of illegal dumping, and is an important revision of the current regulation, in particular as regards the duration of the investigation and the exclusion of lesser duty rules. it allows for enhanced communication by informing business about provisional anti-dumping or anti-subsidy measures two weeks before the duties are imposed. the committee on international trade unanimously agreed on a package of 11 compromise amendments on issues, such as the creation of an effective help desk for smes and shortening of the duration of the investigation period, now limited to 12 months. i congratulate all those involved, but there is a lot of work yet to be done. the committee was unable to reach a compromise on some of the most sensitive issues, such as the shipping clause and lesser duty rules, so there is a lot of work ahead but it is a good measure and a good start.
in writing. - the eu needs to be able to apply higher duties on countries exporting subsidised or dumped products to the eu whenever these countries do not respect core international labour organisation (ilo) conventions or basic environmental standards. the level of duties that can be applied to dumped or subsidised imported goods should vary according to the extent to which the exporting country applies international social and environmental standards and should also take account of whether the imports originate from a less-developed country pursuing its development agenda. we need to protect european industry, especially smes, and jobs against unfair trading practices in third countries. international trade should not lead to a race to the bottom in undermining labour standards and harming the planet. this is an important step in defending industry across europe and in protecting workers’ rights, and i would urge the commission and the council to work with meps so that we can reach agreement on a new eu trade defence system.
madam president, because of the lisbon treaty – which the people of ireland finally approved in a second referendum that subsequently came into force on 1 december 2009 – this parliament, a directly elected body, has far more say and far more power. thanks to lisbon there has been a redistribution of powers away from the faceless bureaucrats and this will, i think, benefit europe in the long-term. now, an alignment of eu legislation is needed, and this report provides precisely for that. i therefore welcome it. we as a parliament have a responsibility to our fishermen to ensure that the rules of the common fisheries policy are complied with fairly, right across the european union and that, whenever difficulties with implementation occur, they are addressed. for far too long, and particularly in my country, in the island of ireland on the edge of the atlantic, fishermen have been put at a disadvantage by past instances of non-uniform implementation of the common fisheries policy. this report is a step in the right direction. hopefully it will mean a much better deal for our fishermen, particularly on the western seaboard.
in writing. - i would like to thank the rapporteur for preparing this important report. i am disappointed however, that the report was confined to merely updating the legal basis. the control regulation is in urgent need of revision and i submitted several amendments to the draft report, along with my colleagues alain cadec and struan stevenson. i would like to raise two specific issues that require immediate attention, in my opinion. firstly, there are considerable differences in the location, target fisheries and fishing practices of vessels employing passive gear and those using static gear such as pots and traps used to catch lobster and crab. these differences need to be reflected in the gear marking requirements. secondly, the penalty point system needs attention. for example, if a skipper commits an offence, the penalty is imposed on the owner of the vessel, which may not necessarily be the skipper. this makes little sense and may even be contrary to the charter of fundamental rights.
i scríbhinn. - san am atá thart bhí aerlínte in ann teacht i dtír ar an reachtaíocht chasta a bhí i bhfeidhm do chearta aerphaisinéirí, lena raibh trí rialachán agus neart éiginnteachtaí i gceist agus a bhí á cur i bhfeidhm i mbealaí éagsúla i mballstáit éagsúla. déanann an tuarascáil seo na rialacha comónta sin a fheabhsú agus a shoiléiriú. fearaim fáilte roimh a bhfuil sa tuarascáil maidir le rialacha comónta a bheith i bhfeidhm do chúiteamh d’aerphaisinéirí i gcás moill fada nó eitiltí a chuirtear ar ceal. is suaimhneas intinne a bheidh ansin do phaisinéirí agus is cinnteacht dhlíthiúil agus simpliúchán praiticiúil a bheidh ann d’aerlínte. beidh earraí cosúil le málaí láimhe agus cótaí ceadaithe sa chábán, chomh maith leis an mbagáiste cábáin a bhí ceadaithe i gcónaí. tá feabhas curtha ar rialacha i dtaca le ríomhairí glúine, uirlisí ceoil agus trealamh a bhíonn ag teastáil ó phaisinéirí le míchumas. ní bheidh aerlínte in ann diúltú a thuilleadh do phaisinéirí nach bhfuil an eitilt amach glactha acu áit a thógáil ar eitilt fillte. ní mór, freisin, go mbeadh an praghas a fhoilsítear i gcomhréir leis an bpraghas a ghearrtar ar deireadh agus is cosaint bhreise a bheidh ansin d’aerphaisinéirí.
in writing. - i congratulate the rapporteur on today’s vote, which means a victory for air passenger rights. for too long, passengers in europe have been out of pocket and hugely inconvenienced when airlines don’t get their planes off the ground – today’s voting builds on existing legislation and further protects our rights from the moment we book our tickets. the new rules are an added value for passengers and unfair and discriminatory treatment of passengers will be eliminated. with this new proposal, air passengers will be more informed and aware of their rights and that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - the eu needs to update its legislation establishing a european-wide framework for cross-border insolvency proceedings. we need to step up efforts to stamp out ‘bankruptcy tourism’ or forum shopping such as practiced by a number of high-profile rogue developers in ireland over recent years. we need clearer rules aimed at determining the jurisdiction for insolvency proceedings and ensuring that when a debtor is faced with proceedings in several member states, the courts handling the different proceedings must work closely with one another and that member states must notify each other about the opening of proceedings. i particularly welcome the european parliament’s support for a tighter definition of the centre of main interests as the place where a debtor conducts the administration of their interests on a regular basis for at least three months before the opening of insolvency proceedings and for further harmonisation measures to introduce preferential rights for employees. i would urge the council and the commission to work closely with meps over the coming months so that we can quickly agree a strengthened insolvency regulation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report as i agree there needs to be an amendment to this regulation since the existing regulation neither unified nor harmonised insolvency law, but rather regulated conflicts of law and jurisdiction within the member states. other problems with the current regulation include a number of issues that need to be resolved.
madam president, three years after the fall of mubarak, the egyptian government, incredibly, is trying to cling to the mask of saviours of the revolution. the millions of activists who actually made that revolution are seeing its true face: the face of authoritarianism, the old elites and the forces of reaction. the low turnout for the referendum illustrates that point. the crackdown on protestors has been vicious and the attack on democratic rights has been incredibly widespread, including the jailing of 20 al jazeera journalists for supposedly aiding terrorist groups. its repression has been wielded against workers and socialist activists, with many trade unionists being jailed and intimidated. life for working people is getting harder, with inflation at over 11% and unemployment at over 13%. the lesson from the past three years for working people is clear: they can only rely on their own forces to break the deadlock of authoritarianism, repression and social catastrophe. they need to build their own organisations and independent trade unions: a mass party of working people to redevelop the revolutionary movement and fight for a government of workers and poor people.
madam president, no matter how spectacular the ceremonies or how memorable the events, the winter olympic games in sochi will be remembered as being built on discrimination, on exploitation and on homophobia. the comment by putin that lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender (lgbt) people attending could feel comfortable as long as they leave the children alone are a testament to the climate of hate that exists: to an environment where promoting homosexuality is a criminal offence and where criminal gangs can kidnap and violently assault lgbt people with impunity. that goes together with the brutal exploitation of tens of thousands of migrant workers by thugs who fail to pay wages, confiscate passports and have forced people to work up to 12 hours a day, with only one day off a month. it also goes together with the forced evictions of families to make way for the olympic infrastructure. for millions around the world, the image of tommie smith and john carlos raising a defiant black power salute at the 1968 games is iconic. it is the duty of activists around the world to make sure that any similar acts of defiance are known worldwide.
mr president, minister venizelos, your government has blood on its hands. commissioner malmström, the eu authorities have blood on their hands; and these are not just numbers of people who have died, to be added to the 20 000 who have died trying to enter the eu over the past two decades, these are real people. this man, he lost his wife and three children. this man, he lost his wife and four children. according to the reports of the survivors, they died as a result of what seems to be incredible brutal, inhuman treatment by the coastguard implementing a push-back. that brutal, inhuman behaviour does not come from nowhere: it comes from a brutal, inhuman policy pursued by the greek government and pursued by the eu authorities to keep refugees out; it comes from a brutal and inhuman system, the worst elements of which we see in greece at the moment – a system which needs to be overthrown.
madam president, i shall start by saying that i do not find it surprising – but i do find it quite disgusting – that you have meps of the far right, like mep morganti, trying to use this barbaric practice, this pain of so many women, as an argument to back up a racist, islamaphobic line of argument. we should remind ourselves that african cultures, cultures that have islam as a prominent religion, are not alone in barbaric practices against women. let us look at the violence against women within the eu, within white christian eu communities. let us look at the domestic violence which affects one in five women, let us look at rape which affects one in 10 women. this is not about imposing some great european values on other countries or other cultures, it is a struggle for human rights, for women’s rights, for children’s rights, which involves people in african cultures struggling for those rights and with their allies all around the world. alice walker wrote a very powerful novel about the experience of a woman living with fgm called possessing the secrets of joy. she said it was about the ways in which women are rather routinely mutilated in most parts of the world and how people tend to think of the pain done to women as somehow less than the pain done to men. that gets to the point about what fgm is about. it is not some isolated barbaric practice, it is about the oppression of women. it is a manifestation and an instrument of oppression against women and it is a way of denying women as sexual beings, of denying sexual pleasure to women. the eu has a responsibility here. every year, an estimated 20 000 women flee these practices and seek asylum in the eu. about 9 000 of them flee having been cut themselves. the rest flee in order to protect their children. reports from victims illustrate that they are often met with disbelief, with scepticism, with a lack of knowledge about this practice. activists have also raised the fact that some member states have deported women back to countries where they are at risk of fgm. this is another dark stain on europe’s immigration policies, and we have plenty of them at the moment. member states have an obligation to protect women and girls trying to escape fgm. in many countries where fgm persists the practice is illegal. it goes to show that more than laws are needed: investment in publicly owned, free healthcare systems that guarantee full sexual and reproductive rights to women, that lower the dependence on traditional circumcisers, who often also play a role as midwives or nurses in the community; ending the economic dependency of women through establishing a living wage; full employment; closing the wage gap and a full programme of education.
madam president, as today is international day of zero tolerance to female genital mutilation (fgm), it is important and appropriate that we discuss it here in the european parliament. fgm is a completely horrific practice and 140 million women have suffered globally. two million per year are still subjected to fgm, half a million of these in the eu. in my own country, over 3 500 women have been subjected to fgm, which is – as has been said – very often carried out against children and is a form of child abuse. it leads to many serious physical, medical and indeed psychological problems. the commission action plan is a good start. it sets out a roadmap for dealing with this and i commend the work of organisations which campaigned for this, such as the end fgm european campaign, which was led by amnesty international. most eu countries now have legislation in place to ban fgm. ireland was one of the last countries and that was very much due to the work of a young somali woman, ifrah ahmed, who has been campaigning. while legislation is necessary, i think there does need to be an emphasis on prevention as well. we need to change mindsets, because fgm can never be justified on the grounds of culture or religion. in december 2012, the un carried a resolution condemning the practice. these resolutions were supported by all countries in the african union, yet rates for fgm are more than 90% in the horn of africa. so i am glad to hear, commissioner, that you say that the eu will pursue this with the external action service. indeed, ifrah ahmed will be returning to somalia next month to actually campaign on this issue. we need more support here in europe as well, to support professionals, teachers and social workers. we need data collection, but most of all we need a concerted effort to support the end fgm campaign. i call on all meps to support the petition which is at endfgm.eu.
madam president, every eleven seconds a girl somewhere in the world has her genitals mutilated. the barbaric procedure involves the removal of parts of the outer genitals and the removal of the clitoris. the inside labia are often completely removed or partially severed using razors, shards of glass or scissors – always unsterilised and under unhygienic conditions. in 15% of cases, the large labia are also scratched out and the remaining skin is then sewn up, leaving just a tiny opening, or infibulation. this barbaric practice has nothing to do with culture, tradition or religion; it is torture and it is a crime. over 3 million girls are affected by what is a huge and gross torture. having worked as a midwife, it is horrendous to try and deliver a baby to these women without doing damage to their bladders. if that baby is a girl, the look of horror for these women is enhanced many, many millions of per cent. this is such an abuse of human rights, and i welcome the fact that we have an opportunity here today to throw some light on it again.
a uachtaráin, tá áthas orm páirt a ghlacadh sa díospóireacht thábhachtach seo agus ba mhaith liom cúpla pointe a rá. firstly, as the commission document points out, this is largely about 20 member states who between them have 37 000 kilometres of inland waterways carrying 500 million tonnes of cargo per annum. these are obviously mainly on continental europe, and it is only right that because they have suffered due to the economic recession there is now an opportunity to develop. therefore, we should be helping them to connect and develop in every way. most of these are either privately owned or owned by smes, and often they are not in a position to be aware of the resources that the european union can offer. i think it is right that this should be pointed out in terms, particularly, in relation to the erdf, the esf, the cohesion fund, etc. and particularly to focus on rdi for this area. that is a very important point and i agree with it. one other area which i think is very important, and which the commission points to, is that of lng. it says, for instance, that based on the current state of technology, lng fuel ships would considerably contribute to achieving emission limits for the more ambitious approach. however, the uptake of lng by the sector is currently hampered by regulatory, financial, technical and infrastructural barriers. urgent action is therefore needed to overcome these barriers, so that lng can be used by 2016 at the latest. i agree completely with that, and there is actually a proposal in my country to have an lng terminal. certainly that needs to be encouraged. finally, i would like to make the point that mr bennion made, which is that in places like ireland we should be focusing on the tourism and leisure side, because areas like the shannon have a huge potential to develop the whole inland waterways sector from a leisure point of view. i would like to see an overall package incorporating cargo and leisure as the final result here. it says the work has started; let it be as comprehensive as possible.
madam president, thank you for allowing me to take the floor late, and my apologies to all of those who participated in the debate. there are just two points i want to make. in ireland, there is huge interest in the inland waterway sector and in the idea of it both as an enterprising industry and also as a tourist attraction. there is a great need to fund local communities which want to redevelop walkways and pathways associated with inland waters. that is one key point in this debate. secondly, it would be remiss of me today – having come from ireland – not to mention my concern about ireland. we have had terrible rainfall there. the river shannon has been mentioned, and we are concerned today that there will be incredible flooding because of the tremendous rain. my thoughts are with the citizens in ireland, particularly because of the difficult weather they have experienced. we will be calling on the commission to take account of this and to provide as much support as possible to a weather-stricken country.
mr president, my point of order is in relation to the conference of presidents’ decision to postpone a debate today on the devastation caused right across the western seaboard of the european union – spain, portugal, france, ireland and the united kingdom in particular – as a result of the continuing and unprecedented storms and consequent flooding that has impacted so severely on peoples’ lives. at this time we should be having a timely debate to show solidarity with these people, so i want to know why it was postponed, particularly as there was a lull in proceedings today; nothing happened between 10.30 and 11.00 because there was no debate scheduled. so will it be rescheduled for the next part-session? and will we express our solidarity with these affected peoples and also make every instrument available to help them? our spanish colleague mentioned it yesterday. (applause)
a uachtaráin, bhí áthas orm tacaíocht a thabhairt don tuarascáil seo agus vótáil le mo ghrúpa i ngach aon vóta. is minic nuair a bhímid ag plé ábhair sa pharlaimint go ndeirtear nach dtuigimid cás na saoránach. ní dóigh liom go bhfuil sé sin fíor ach cinnte sa chás seo tuigimid cás na bpaisinéirí níos mó ná aon ghrúpa eile. mar fheisirí eorpacha bíonn orainn a laghad dhá eitilt a fháil gach seachtain. sin céad eitilt in aghaidh na bliana nó cúig chéad i rith na tréimhse cúig bliana. dá bhrí sin, tuigimid an strus a bhíonn ar phaisinéirí nuair a chuirtear eitiltí ar ceal nó nuair a chuirtear siar iad ar feadh cúpla uair an chloig. dá bhrí sin, is ceart dúinn cúnamh agus cúiteamh a thabhairt do phaisinéirí nuair a tharlaíonn rudaí den sórt sin. dá bhrí sin, bhí áthas orm vótáil agus déanfaidh sé seo maitheas do phaisinéirí amach anseo.
in writing. - implementation of the existing eu rules on compensation and assistance to passengers in the event of their flight being delayed or cancelled suffers from many shortcomings, and this creates uncertainty both for air passengers and for airlines, particularly those who respect the rules. the new regulation, as passed by parliament, is intended to address the gaps in the existing rules and ensure that passengers who face long delays have the same rights as passengers of a cancelled flight. it is intended to enhance transparency in relation to final ticket prices and to ensure that handbags are not considered as carry-on luggage. it sets out a clearer definition of ‘extraordinary circumstances justifying the non-payment of compensation’. from now on, airlines will not be able to avoid their responsibilities by citing ‘technical problems’. other improvements include more, and more accessible, contact points at airports, easier procedures for making complaints, and a strengthened enforcement regime. i would urge the council and the commission to work closely with meps over the coming months so that we can quickly strengthen air passengers’ rights and provide greater clarity for airlines.
a uachtaráin, bhí an-díospóireacht againn inár ngrúpa faoin tuarascáil seo agus dár ndóigh bhí tuairimí éagsúla faoi. bhí mé ag éisteacht leo agus tuigim cad a bhí le rá ag gach uile dhuine. ach ag deireadh na dála cheap mo thír agus mo rialtas gur cheart dúinn trí sprioc a bheith againn agus mar sin vótáil mé agus mo pháirtí fine gael ar son na trí sprioc sin. cinnte, níl deireadh ráite faoin ábhar seo agus caithfimid fanacht go dtí deireadh na bliana seo nó an bhliain seo chugainn nó b'fhéidir níos faide chun go mbeadh réiteach ar an bhfadhb againn agus cinnteacht faoi cad ba chóir dúinn a dhéanamh. ach rud amháin ar cheart a rá – caithfimid i gcónaí a bheith ag féachaint ar conas is féidir linn déileáil leis an bhfadhb mhór atá againn faoin athrú aeráide, agus chonaiceamar arís é sin i rith an gheimhridh seo agus na stoirmeacha agus na tuilte nach raibh againn riamh cheana. dá bhrí sin, níl an rás rite faoin ábhar seo, agus bhí áthas orm vótáil ar son na moltaí a bhí againn.
in writing. - we supported the call for the commission to include, in its proposal for legislation on hydraulic fracturing, mandatory impact assessment for both exploration and extraction, and we stressed the need to ensure transparency as regards all data on the chemicals used in the hydraulic fracturing process. whereas we are opposed, in line with the precautionary principle, to any hydraulic fracturing activities that could in any way harm the environment, we must also respect the sovereignty of eu member states in determining their own energy mix, in accordance with treaties and the principle of subsidiarity. that principle gives ireland the freedom to decide our energy priorities, and setting a precedent for undermining such a principle could have potentially harmful unintended consequences for ireland in the future.
a uachtaráin, ar dtús caithfimid mé a rá go raibh brón orm a chloisteáil gur thit an rapóirtéir ferreira i mbreoiteacht ar maidin agus tá súil orm go dtiocfaidh feabhas uirthi go luath. maidir leis an tuarascáil féin, vótáil mé arís le mo ghrúpa sna vótaí go léir agus dar ndóigh vótáil mé freisin ar son an vóta deiridh a chur ar ceal go fóill de réir alt 56.2. ach rud amháin atá soiléir ná go bhfuilimid ag foghlaim ceachtanna ón gcúlú eacnamaíochta agus na cúiseanna gur tharla sé trasna na heorpa ar fad agus tá moladh mór ag dul go háirithe is dóigh liom don choimisinéir barnier as na moltaí uile atá á dtabhairt aige romhainn agus beimid ag glacadh leo de réir a chéile. ach rud amháin ba mhaith liom a rá, má bhíonn teist strusa againn a bheidh cruinn ar na bainc agus má bhíonn beart dá réir b’fhéidir nach mbeidh aon ghá dúinn an ciste seo a úsáid ach ag an am céanna is maith an rud go bhfuil sé againn.
in writing. - i want to see clear eu country-of-origin labelling rules for all fresh, chilled or frozen pig, sheep and goat meat and poultry sold throughout europe. consumers deserve to know where animals were born, reared and slaughtered, whether they come from places with good welfare standards and how, and how far, they were transported. we have already introduced these rules for beef, without any upward effect on prices, and there is no reason why we should not have the same rules for pigs, sheep, chickens etc. up to 90% of consumers across europe want to know where their meat comes from. they deserve the full picture, not just partial information such as the place of rearing and slaughter. making country-of-origin rules mandatory for all unprocessed meat, and for processed meats such as beef in lasagne and chicken in curries, would encourage manufacturers to get a better grip on their supply chain and avoid the type of scandal we saw last year in relation to horsemeat. it would also ensure better protection for workers in the food-processing sector throughout europe. the usa has already introduced comprehensive labelling. europe should do likewise.
in writing. - i voted in favour of a compulsory labelling scheme which will require that the place of rearing and slaughter be stated for all meats, and will introduce specific rules for processed meats. i also voted in favour of a voluntary additional scheme for labelling on the provenance of meat. i did not support the motion for a resolution rejecting the commission’s proposal and calling for mandatory provenance labelling, because to do so would have delayed, perhaps indefinitely, the introduction of origin labelling, which i support. the commission’s proposal is a good first step.
a uachtaráin, ba mhaith liom a rá go raibh áthas orm tacaíocht a thabhairt arís do mo ghrúpa ins na vótaí go léir. agus tá áthas orm gur ghlac an pharlaimint leis na moltaí i gcoitinne. taispeánann sé sin go bhfuil fonn orainn cúnamh a thabhairt do mhuintir na húcráine i gcoitinne. bhí sé de phribhléid agamsa cúpla seachtain ó shin bualadh le lucht freasúra agus daoine eile ón úcráin nuair a tháinig siad go dtí an pharlaimint. ba léir domsa go raibh fonn orthu – agus ní hamháin fonn, ach go raibh ocras orthu chun cearta sibhialta agus an daonlathas a bhunú trasna na húcráine ar fad. dar ndóigh, seasfaimid leo ins an sprioc sin. freisin, tá moladh mór ag dul, is dóigh liom, do baroness catherine ashton as na hiarrachtaí iontacha atá á ndéanamh aici chun déileáil leis na fadhbanna agus trí chainteanna le hionadaithe ón úcráin. ach rud amháin: tá sé de chead ag muintir na húcráine a n-aigne a dhéanamh suas gan brú ó aon tír, mar a dúramar inniu, go háirithe ón rúis.
in writing. - i would urge bosnia and herzegovina’s political representatives to seek to put internal difficulties aside and to start the process of constitutional reforms aimed at simplifying the complex political architecture deriving from the dayton agreement. the impasse following the sejdić-finci ruling, with its significant implications for minority rights, needs to be overcome if we are to see free and fair elections in october 2014. bosnia and herzegovina’s citizens are becoming increasingly impatient with the lack of economic development, which has dire social consequences, and the lack of a clear vision for the future. over recent weeks public frustration has been expressed in daily protests involving thousands of people across the country. bosnia and herzegovina is standing still while other countries in the region are moving forward and moving towards eu accession. i want to see bosnia and herzegovina joining the eu, if that is the citizens’ wish, but the country’s political leaders needs to take the right steps if it is to move towards such a decision. the eu must deepen its engagement with bosnia and herzegovina, and the current tensions must be resolved as quickly as possible, otherwise there is a real risk of wider instability in the region.
a uachtaráin, vótáil mé arís le mo ghrúpa sna vótaí go léir agus glacadh leis an tuarascáil le móramh mór agus is maith sin. this report deals almost exclusively with cargo. that is understandable, because 500 million tonnes of cargo are carried on inland waterways, mainly on continental europe, and it points out the necessity to try and make them more efficient, to eliminate bottlenecks and to have them greener, and in that regard it mentions the development of lng terminals, which i completely agree with. there is one proposal in my country for such a terminal – shannon lng. hopefully that will come to pass. it also mentions seaports. again, it is important that these are developed, and again on the shannon estuary in ireland there is a proposal to develop one of the finest deepest seaports in ireland at foynes, and hopefully that will come to pass. but one point i want to make is that it ignores leisure and tourism and mr bennion and i mentioned that this morning. there is a huge potential to develop leisure and tourism as well as cargo in the inland waterways, and i hope that this will become part of the proposals in due course. finally, mr president, thank you for the efficient and fair way you have chaired today’s session.
thar ceann an ghrúpa ppe. – a uachtaráin, nuair a léigh mé na rúin seo smaoinigh mé ar an am a chaith mé sa téalainn naoi mbliana ó shin agus an dearcadh a bhí orm ar mhuintir na téalainne agus dar liomsa is iad na daoine is míne agus is macánta agus is síochánta ar domhan b'fhéidir. agus dá bhfaighidís seans seasamh siar mar a dúradh agus féachaint ar cad atá ag tarlú ina dtír b'fhéidir go mbeimis in ann rud éigin a dhéanamh faoi. is dóigh liom, dá bhrí sin, go bhfuil seans an-mhaith againne go háirithe ag oifig bhanbharún ashton an dá thaobh a thabhairt le chéile agus a chur in iúl dóibh féachaint cad atá ag tarlú agus cad a tharlóidh amach anseo agus titfidh rudaí as a chéile mar a dúirt feisirí eile mura dtiocfaidh siad ar réiteach agus is dóigh liom gur féidir linn an réiteach sin a thabhairt isteach agus daonlathas ceart a bhunú agus gan a bheith ag brath ar chomhairle na daoine agus ar rudaí neamhdhleathacha mar sin agus dá bhrí sin is fiú mar a dúirt an tuasal bütikofer labhairt le haon ghuth ón aontas eorpach.
mr president, the reason i wanted to participate in the debate is to compliment my colleague, monica macovei, who has been truly relentless in her pursuit – i was almost going to say of perfection – but in her attempts to root out organised crime and to get this directive to the place it is today. i think it is important to put that on the record because she has worked particularly hard. i am mindful that in ireland we have the criminal assets bureau and it does extraordinarily good work and really important work to target criminals and to remove from them the profits of their evil doings. i am minded to say that when it comes to fuel laundering, the loss to our state from illegal activities concerning fuel is enormous and i am hoping that a new technology will root out that particular crime. let us not fool ourselves, criminals are always one step ahead of us; but today is an important day and i compliment all of those who have made it possible.
mr president, let me first thank the rapporteur for his work on this file. i know it is a work in progress and it was interesting to hear the commission outline the areas of disagreement but also agreement. so it is very much the case that there has been progress. i was quite fascinated by the comments of some colleagues who described this as an effort to create a new police state. nothing could be further from the truth. what we are trying to do here is get police forces working together so that we protect all the citizens of the european union – and i am looking around to try and catch the eye of those who made those comments and yet again they are missing from the chamber. so let us be very clear: this is about a positive approach to policing, an attack on organised crime, to allow the police forces of individual member states to work more effectively. so i hope that in the next round of parliament we will complete this work and that those involved now will be back to do that job.
a uachtaráin, tá áthas orm tacaíocht a thabhairt don díospóireacht seo agus go háirithe fáiltím roimh na feisirí ó gach taobh den urlár ag moladh na tuarascála agus á rá go bhfuil jab maith déanta ag an gcoimisiún agus ag na feisirí a bhí ag déileáil leis. one word we have been talking about constantly here is ‘competitiveness’. europe has lost it, and we are now trying to regain it. programmes such as horizon 2020 are geared towards identifying the weaknesses, particularly in areas of research and development, and that is very important. we have of course the innovation union and we have the european research area; but while you can put money into things you also have to have people, and that is one of the areas in which we have been lacking. we need to attract the best into europe and remove the obstacles, so that we can have projects that will benefit society. last year here in parliament i hosted ‘eu science: global challenges & global collaboration’ with a view to getting those projects together. i think we now have the opportunity to remove the obstacles so that people will be coming here rather than going to the usa. for years we have had a brain drain out of europe. now we have an opportunity to have a brain gain.
madam president, i think it would be helpful, particularly for those of us who rise at 4.30 a.m. to get to strasbourg, if the chairing president could indicate earlier in the debate how many people will speak in the catch-the-eye section. it is a matter of deep regret that many members who are listed to speak actually leave the chamber. they come to speak and then they leave, while those of us who are here do not get an opportunity to speak. i will, however, write an explanation.
a uachtaráin, mar a dúirt bill newton dunn is dea-scéal é seo agus mar sin ní chloisfear mórán faoi sna meáin ach bíodh sin mar atá. mar a dúirt an coimisinéir tá beagnach 90% de shaoránaigh na heorpa i bhfabhar na moltaí seo. agus tá moladh mór ag dul don fheisire striffler agus a comhghleacaithe a rinne a lán oibre go ciúin chun na moltaí seo a chur os ár gcomhair. gan dabht ar bith, is iontach an rud é go bhfuil daoine sásta obair dheonach a dhéanamh go háirithe do dhaoine atá i bpráinn. tá aithne agamsa ar dhaoine óga a thóg bliain amach as a gcuid staidéir agus atá ag obair go deonach thar lear agus tá aithne agam ar an taobh eile den scéal ar sheandaoine, daoine atá ar pinsean a chaitheann a lán dá gcuid ama thar lear sna háiteanna is dainséaraí ar domhan. dá bhri sin, is maith an rud é go bhfuilimid á eagrú agus á chur le chéile mar seo chun a bheith níos éifeachtúla.
mr president, at the end of five years we in the house, the council and the commission need to answer some very serious questions from our voters about austerity and accumulated debt levels in the member states. according to eurostat, in 2012 ireland – my own country – had general government gross debt and consolidated private debt amounting to a staggering 420% of irish gdp. portugal was next in line at 340%; greece had 285% and spain 280%. yet all of these member states have undergone systemic cuts in government spending. all have undergone severe cuts to services which target the needy in a disproportionate way. smes are struggling, and youth unemployment levels are shaping a lost generation in those member states. it is low interest rates that keep countries like ireland barely afloat. debt is accumulating; interest payments on debt increase while growth is stagnant or marginal. it is a never-ending, grinding, bottom-scraping cycle. we need to give our voters hope. debt restructuring, redemption funds, eurobonds are all … (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, the european entrepreneurial region award is part of a scheme which recognises regions for their excellent work in promoting entrepreneurism through forward thinking and sustainable governance. it also of course recognises that the 2020 strategy is being implemented at ground level. kerry is the county which i come from. it received the award in 2011, thanks to the good work of it tralee and a good friend of mine, ogie moran, a former great footballer. clare is another county which could benefit hugely from such an award. it is home to some of the finest tourist attractions in the world: the cliffs of moher, the karst area of the burren, and of course there is shannon airport and the aerospace sector, which could generate huge numbers of jobs. it is a great place to do business and they have a great, positive, can-do attitude, as was seen by the success of their hurlers last year in winning the all-ireland final against all the odds. i would hope that this area will be recognised with a european entrepreneurial region award as well.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind judgement in this issue. i wanted to raise a small but important point about our hearing. perhaps in this parliament we should be careful about our ears and listen carefully. i attended the 50th anniversary of an organisation in ireland called deafhear and i was quite astounded to learn – and i read from this memo – that it takes 10[nbsp ]years for an individual who believes they have a hearing problem to do something about it. the consequences in terms of isolation and the impact on their socialisation are quite enormous. it is also quite frightening to know that one third of acquired hearing loss is actually preventable. people around europe need to understand that they can actually protect their ears and that one in three people over the age of 60 have a significant hearing loss. we are all heading in that direction, and i am using this one-minute speech to ask those of us in this house who use our mouth and our ears in our daily work, to perhaps tell our citizens about the importance of looking after their health.
in writing. – many girls and women still do not have equal opportunities to realise rights recognised by law. gender equality is not only morally right, it is necessary to human progress and sustainable development. the eu must do more to prevent and combat violence against women. by empowering women we are also contributing to the realisation of other goals, such as improving maternal health, reducing hunger and ensuring universal education. i wholeheartedly support ms parvanova’s report and welcome the establishment of an eu year to end violence against women. i congratulate the rapporteur for her work on this report.
mr president, in terms of delegated acts and this technical issue, we are almost in an empty house here. this is the most crucial part of our legislation. on agriculture, where i was deeply involved, we have still not finished cap reform, even though we announced its conclusion months back. mr szájer, your work is really important, and the new members of this house next autumn should look at your manual of instructions to see how we can make our laws better and have better law-making. my sincere concern is that, when we reach a political agreement and then have to turn our attention to the details and delegated acts or implementing acts, it is very difficult to get them right. i am greatly concerned, with regard to the reform of the agriculture policy, that there are three or four difficult issues that might not be completed by march, and therefore we will have a problem of implementation next year. so, well done on your work. it is perhaps one of the most important reports, and i am sorry that there are not more of us here to actually debate it.
mr president, i want to thank the rapporteurs and in particular our employment rapporteur, sergio gutiérrez prieto, for his excellent work and good cooperation. our committee looked at the social and employment aspects of the european semester and to me they are central to the debate. they are not some side issue; they are not some afterthought to be taken into consideration when the economic issues are dealt with. that is why, in my opinion, social indicators are just as valid as economic ones and in my view they should be binding. in our employment report we added additional indicators such as child poverty levels, access to health care, homelessness and a decent work index. the commissioner for human rights from the council of europe, in his report on safeguarding human rights in times of economic crisis, said that most austerity measures have exacerbated the already severe human consequences of the economic crisis and that vulnerable and marginalised groups have been disproportionately hit. these are not just words, they describe the lives of real people and i would say to mr[nbsp ]barroso, who i think is no longer with us, that yes, some small progress has been made but for many countries it is not a sustainable model. yes, deficits have been reduced, but debts mount. last night in this parliament i spoke of eurostat figures from 2012 and my own country, ireland. if you take the general government gross debt and consolidated private debt, that total debt as a percentage of gdp is a staggering 420[nbsp ]%. in portugal it is 340[nbsp ]%, in greece, 285[nbsp ]% and in spain, 280[nbsp ]%. so without significant growth those debt figures that i spoke of become overwhelming, and how can we have growth if we do not have targeted investments? are we saying to those countries: tough, get used to it, the crisis will continue, the grinding, scraping along the bottom that we call progress will continue? yes, people do associate europe with austerity. why? because that is where the policy originates, ably assisted by some member states. in my own country an assessment of the last five budgets showed that the hardest hit by those budgetary policies are the very rich and the very poor. that is why we need binding social targets.
mr president, it has been a lengthy debate and i was here for most it. the word that i did not hear very often was ‘confidence’. we need to say, very clearly, that what business, students, parents and europe as a whole need is confidence. what the commission said has helped to rebuild confidence and what the member states and the commission have done – despite the negativity – has restored stability and confidence. let us be clear about that message. secondly, i have heard a great deal about jobs and growth, but we are missing a key word here. in ireland we had jobs and growth to beat the band during the celtic tiger era: but it was unsustainable. let us talk about sustainable jobs and growth. my third point: let us talk about spending – money, cuts, etc. we have wasted money; we have thrown money at problems. we need quality spending of member states’ budgets, just as we need quality spending of the european union’s budget. let us work to that end.
a uachtaráin, bhí áthas orm tacaíocht a thabhairt don tuarascáil seo agus vótálaim leis an ngrúpa sna vótaí atá ann. gan dabht ar bith, tá tionscal an ghluaisteáin an-tábhachtach dʼeacnamaíocht na heorpa agus tá sé tábhachtach go leanfadh sé ar aghaidh mar sin agus go mbeadh siad in ann carranna a dhíol agus go mbeadh na carranna sin éifeachtach go háirithe ó thaobh astaíochtaí co2 de. tugann sé seo an chinnteacht dhleathach atá ag teastáil agus tugann sé sprioc dóibh freisin úsáid a bhaint as teicneolaíocht nua chun na hastaíochtaí sin a laghdú. déanfaidh sé sin an-difríocht mar is sa tslí sin a bheimid ag troid i gcoinne athrú aeráide, beimid ag laghdú an méid co2 atá ag éalú isteach san aeráid agus beidh na carranna níos éifeachtúla agus níos saoire do chustaiméirí. déanfaidh sé sin maitheas do gach uile dhuine.
in writing. - passenger cars alone are responsible for around 12[nbsp ]% of co2 emissions in the eu. the agreement not only protects the climate but will also save consumers money and will boost innovation and competitiveness in the eu car industry, creating much needed jobs in the process. it is a win-win for climate, consumers, innovation and jobs. that is why i voted in favour of the report.
madam president, i supported this proposal because, as a package, it aims to foster innovation and economic growth. it does so by making trademark registration systems more accessible and efficient for business. it should also lower costs and reduce complexity, which is what we constantly ask for when we are trying or acting to provide a supportive environment for smes. the new legislation should also cut down on time-lags, as it streamlines application and registration for procedures for community trademarks. ambiguities should also be lessened, with greater predictability and legal security. in particular, export-oriented and innovative companies will benefit, as they can exploit their competitive advantage and their intellectual property rights without undue expense or significant red tape.
in writing. - i welcome this proposal regarding trademarks, which is accompanied by another welcome proposal to approximate member statesʼ laws relating to trademarks. although the rules at eu level relating to trademarks which were enacted in the 1990s have been a great success, it is unfortunate that there have been no significant changes until now to keep pace with technological developments, as well as developments in business practice. this regulation has been welcomed by stakeholders. it is essential for irelandʼs export oriented business sector that there is a consistent regulatory framework on trademarks across the european union which is simpler, more reliable and predictable, cheaper and more efficient. this regulation ensures that irish businesses, as well as the 20 million other businesses in the european union, can prosper from their intellectual property rights without undue expense or overly burdensome administration. i voted against amendments from the two largest political groups relating to counterfeit goods, which go against the balanced approach which was unanimously agreed upon at the committee stage. the original provisions sought to protect the free transit of generic medicines to developing countries.
madam president, organised crime groups operate without borders and, increasingly, they are acquiring assets in other member states and in third countries. i believe that this directive is long overdue. i particularly welcome that the directive encourages member states to promote the re-use of seized criminal assets for social purposes. i have long advocated for the proceeds of seized criminal assets to be reinvested back into the communities that have suffered as a result of crime. criminal activity runs deep, and the actions of a few damage the lives of communities for generations. i welcome confirmation by the minister for justice in ireland that ireland will indeed opt into this directive and i have asked minister shatter to go one step further. i have urged the minister to take up the provision for the possibility of confiscated property being reinvested into communities and i am asking him to ensure that, when the directive is transposed into irish law, a percentage of the funds from confiscated assets be ring-fenced for damaged communities.
in writing. - i supported this report. its adoption will harmonise member states’ freezing and confiscation of the proceeds of crime, facilitating more effective cross-border cooperation on this important issue.
madam president, i supported this report because, like the previous report, it will foster innovation and economic growth by streamlining registration systems. this matters hugely to business because it does guarantee greater speed and greater predictability. outdated provisions in the current directive have been eliminated and a level of legal certainty has also been introduced by clarifying trademark rights in terms of their scope and their limitations. we will also achieve greater approximation of national trademark laws and various procedures, and they will be more consistent with the community trademark system. this in itself will facilitate cooperation between national offices of member states and the office for harmonisation in the internal market. this will further facilitate convergence of practices and the development of common tools for putting a legal basis for this cooperation in place.
a uachtaráin, bhí sé de phribhléid agam freastal ar an díospóireacht ar an ábhar seo aréir agus páirt a ghlacadh ann chomh maith. i rith na díospóireachta bhí sé soiléir go raibh an chuid is mó de na feisirí i bhfabhar na moltaí agus léiríodh é sin arís inniu mar chonaiceamar gur vótáil 578 as 678 i bhfabhar na tuarascála. anuraidh, dʼeagraigh mé comhdháil ollmhór sa pharlaimint sa bhruiséil agus tháinig lucht taighde ó gach cearn den domhan. i rith na seachtaine sin luadh arís agus arís eile go raibh bacanna ann san eoraip chun lucht taighde a mhealladh isteach chun taighde a dhéanamh nó maireachtáil anseo – ní cosúil leis na stáit aontaithe a bhí i bhfad níos oscailte, a chuir i bhfad níos mó fáilte roimh an lucht taighde agus a bhí i bhfad níos tarraingtí dóibh dul ann. táimid ag déileáil leis na fadhbanna sin agus táim sásta leis na moltaí agus feabhsóidh siad an scéal amach anseo.
madam president, this proposal covers entry for third-country nationals to the eu for the purposes of studying, research, exchanges, etc., and also, of course, remunerated and unremunerated training and voluntary service. now there are always issues around admissions and visas, etc. hardly a conference takes place on, let us say, volunteering but they have what they call the ‘empty chair syndrome’ where at least one or two chairs will be empty because third-country nationals will, at the last minute, not be able to get their visas or satisfy the requirements for entry into the eu. ireland, of course, does not participate in the students’ directive. one of the reasons for this is that the uk does not, and that of course influences our choices. there are also other issues for our government and it believes that the rights proposed under this directive would not be in line with similar national policies which we have on immigration control. perhaps during trialogue we may find ways of opting in, though i think this is not likely.
a uachtaráin, bhí áthas orm arís vótáil le mo ghrúpa sna vótaí seo go léir agus bhí áthas orm gur ghlac 600 as 680 leis an tuarascáil. tá obair dheonach an-tábhachtach ar fad don chomhluadar i gcoitianta in áiteanna áitiúla agus ar fud an domhain. tá na mílte duine ón aontas eorpach ag déanamh an-chuid oibre taobh istigh agus taobh amuigh den aontas agus go háirithe sna háiteanna is boichte, is dainséaraí agus is truamhéalaí ar domhan agus tá moladh mór tuillte acu. ar maidin bhí grúpa anseo sa pharlaimint – daoine óga an chuid is mó díobh agus na t-léinte “we care, we actˮ á gcaitheamh acu agus cosúil leis na fianna in éirinn fadó déanann siad beart de réir a mbriathar. is fiú mar sin struchtúr a chur timpeall orthu a chabhródh leo san obair iontach sin, a ghríosódh iad agus a chabhródh leo a bheith níos éifeachtaí amach anseo.
madam president, i am pleased to see that we have voted to guarantee funding for the european voluntary humanitarian aid corps. as the mep who spearheaded the campaign in parliament to have 2011 designated the european year of volunteering (eyv), i am really pleased to see that the voluntary aid corps can now take its place as a european volunteering initiative. sometimes we speak in the eu of solidarity, but citizens do not always see our actions as solidarity; sometimes they see it more as self-interest. however, in this case, the corps will ensure that the word ‘solidarity’ has real meaning. the success of the year of volunteering was not really down to parliament or the commission, although we played a role. it was because of the eyv alliance, which was a network of voluntary organisations across the eu that continue to be active volunteers and to support volunteering. i am really pleased to see that their recommendations contained in the policy agenda on volunteering in europe (pave) have been taken into consideration in this report. i am also pleased to see that the corps will complement existing national and international schemes, and that training will be given to volunteers.
in writing. - i welcome the adoption of parliament’s position on the establishment of a european voluntary humanitarian corps, as envisaged, indeed mandated, by the lisbon treaty. under this programme, approximately 18[nbsp ]000 european volunteers – young people, experts or retired people – will be able to tackle specific humanitarian needs, from performing online tasks from home, through work at the offices of humanitarian organisations across europe, to deployment to eu-funded humanitarian operations around the world. i see this new programme as a tangible expression of solidarity with the victims of natural disasters and man-made crises. i would point out that volunteers cannot be deployed in ‘operations conducted in the theatre of international and non-international armed conflicts’ and that deployments ‘must meet the real needs expressed at local level by the hosting organisations’. i also welcome the fact that around 2[nbsp ]000 apprenticeships will be offered at humanitarian organisations inside europe. i would now urge the council to now work with meps to ensure that this programme is adopted and entered into effect as soon as possible.
madam president, i very much welcome this overwhelming vote in favour of the new fund for european aid to the most deprived (fead) programme, for which i had the honour to be rapporteur. the vote that we had here in parliament today reflects the fact that we really did succeed in achieving our key objectives. in the year-long negotiations with the commission and the member states we wanted to make sure we raised the budget from eur 2.5 billion to eur 3.5 billion; we wanted to strengthen the role of anti-poverty organisations in the design, operation, implementation and monitoring of the national plans that will bring fead into each of the member states. we wanted to simplify the administrative procedures for organisations which would be accessing fead funding, and we wanted to ensure that fead would complement other european initiatives such as those aimed at reducing food waste, promoting public health and sourcing local produce. the new fead programme that we have now agreed is the first ever specific eu initiative which seeks to reach out to people experiencing extreme deprivation, and particularly food poverty, homelessness and child poverty in all member states. fead is a small – but strategically important – step towards a more social europe.
madam president, i voted in favour of the report on the fund for european aid to the most deprived because, at the very least, now the budget is maintained and not reduced, as the commission would have had it. but let us be clear about how unfortunately low a level that is compared to the scale of the problem. in 2011, 8.9[nbsp ]% of europeans, around 44.5 million people, were severely materially deprived. that means the funding works out at just over eur[nbsp ]11 per person per year. meanwhile poverty across europe is rising rapidly. according to oxfam, an additional 25 million people could be at risk of poverty by 2025, bringing the total to 146 million. oxfam also correctly points out the responsibility of austerity for that increase and it is clear that the eu is a driving force behind that. at the same time, of course, profits for major corporations are increasing. this allows the most deprived some crumbs off the table. it is better than nothing, but much more is necessary and much more is possible. it means breaking with austerity, investment in public services and decent work.
madam president, i want to congratulate my colleague emer costello on her report on food aid for the deprived. certainly her commitment and her attention to detail ensured a good outcome. i agree with what commission andor said earlier: the fund might not be in place were it not for parliament’s insistence on its continuation and its determination to find solutions and compromises with the council in order to ensure a timely allocation of monies for this fund. at one level, there is no satisfaction in welcoming a fund that distributes food aid to those who need it, and basic social groceries, for 2014-2020, but we had that discussion earlier this morning in economic governance. however, at the same time, this is a victory for parliament, and indeed for those citizens who will use the fund. in the teeth of significant opposition from a number of member states which do not see this as having a european role and which do not recognise this as european solidarity, we have succeeded in delivering this eur[nbsp ]3.5 billion fund.
madam president, i was pleased to support this report on combating violence against women. indeed, having heard one of my colleagues say that every day seven women in the eu die from domestic violence, i am even more pleased that i supported it. i think it is another step by parliament to try and ensure european added value and to show that we want to support the action of member states in the field of prevention of violence against women and girls. i just want to emphasise one issue that was raised in this report and it is the need for a coherent system for collecting statistics on gender-based violence, because good statistics should always underpin and inform policymaking. yet in ireland the rape crisis network, which is involved in this crucial work, is under threat of significantly reduced funding. its areas of work include data collection, capacity-building and training of frontline staff, production of best practice standards and the exchange of good practice, and the identification of emerging issues. these matters are core to ensuring a top-quality service for victims of domestic violence. they are not optional extras. victims of domestic violence should have an adequate service that is fit for purpose.
in writing. - violence against women remains one of the most serious human rights violations in europe. a recent study by the euʼs fundamental rights agency shows that up to 25[nbsp ]% of women have experienced physical violence and around 10[nbsp ]% experienced sexual violence. this cannot continue. this resolution sets out how europe can help combat violence against women. we must have comparable data on the situation in all member states. this data will enable us to develop a comprehensive, eu-wide approach to combating violence against women. the creation of an eu-wide observatory would enable the compilation of such data and would help identify best practice in the provision of services to victims. designating 2016 the eu year to end violence against women would help shine a light on this issue. i reiterate the call to all member states, including my own, to ratify the council of europe’s 2011 istanbul convention. ratifying and implementing this convention demonstrates a true commitment to eliminating violence against women.
in writing. - i welcome the adoption of this report as it raises awareness of the victims of gender-based violence. over 3[nbsp ]000 women die annually from violent attacks, with one in four women affected by violence.
in writing. - i welcome the adoption of parliament’s resolution on the european semester for economic policy coordination – the annual growth survey 2014. the european union needs a change in economic strategy in order to ensure that its focus is not just on fiscal consolidation but also on growth and employment. we need growth-friendly fiscal consolidation that takes country-specific situations better into account and that promotes targeted social investment in training, education and lifelong learning. i particularly welcome the call on the commission to examine not just member states with current account deficits but also with those with current account surpluses, in order to achieve a coordinated strategy to rebalance the eu economy. growth and jobs have to be at the heart of the eu’s economic policies.
madam president, with the elections around the corner, it is beginning to dawn on a section of this house that so-called fiscal consolidation and austerity, both of which are imposed via the european semester, are to blame for the social catastrophe we see around us across europe. this report, however, perfectly illustrates how this is purely rhetorical recognition. on the one hand, it declares that social indicators should be taken into consideration but, on the other hand, it continues to advocate the continuation of fiscal consolidation, slashing wages to boost competitiveness, increasing the retirement age, promoting insecure, unstable jobs for young people and so on. it is the same poison, simply re-labelled as medicine. what is needed is to scrap the semester, to scrap the austerity offensive that serves only the interests of big business, bankers and bondholders, and to pursue socialist policies to point a way out of the crisis, repudiate the debt, make the rich pay their taxes and have public investment in real job creation and a democratic plan to redevelop our economies.
madam president, i do not quite share the totally negative view that my colleague paul murphy has of this report. there are certainly some positive aspects to it and i think that one of them is paragraph[nbsp ]31 which was carried by parliament and which said that member states that are subject to the excessive deficit procedure would have the fiscal space to implement the youth guarantee schemes. i think that is an important issue in that the youth guarantee is a european initiative, but also that it is a guarantee to young people from the eu that will be administered through member states. already many of these member states are under extreme fiscal pressure and they need that fiscal space to implement the guarantee. in my own country, ireland, in 2012 youth unemployment was at 30[nbsp ]% and in my own constituency it was at 33.8[nbsp ]% so it is crucial that this guarantee is in place. our minister is putting in a pilot programme for ballymun in dublin and that is good, it is necessary, but we also need to see them in more rural areas, small towns, etc., in order to give young people – that is, those who have not already emigrated – some hope that there is some chance for them. so i congratulate parliament on its majority to ensure the youth guarantee is guaranteed.
in writing. - i supported the adoption of parliament’s resolution on the employment and social aspects of the european semester for economic policy coordination. we need to put more emphasis on tackling the social consequences of the economic and financial crisis and promoting sustainable and inclusive growth, with more and higher quality employment, and higher social standards. i do welcome the call to explore the possibility of a directive on carer’s leave but i am disappointed that parliament narrowly rejected recommendation 5 of the annex, which sought to give member states in the excessive deficit procedure the fiscal space to tackle youth unemployment through an exemption, and that it decided to support limiting access to early retirement schemes and other ‘early exit’ pathways.
in writing. - i welcome the adoption of this balanced report which aims to maintain and enhance research and innovation in the plant breeding sector in the eu.
mr president, first of all i would like to commend ms sehnalová’s long-standing efforts to make the ecall system a reality on europe’s roads. in the irish context, we have seen an increase in road deaths, breaking a positive downward trend for the first time since 2005. the chairman of the road safety authority has linked the higher death toll to a lack of enforcement resources, on foot of budgetary cuts. while, when we look at recent years’ trends, fewer lives are lost in ireland compared to the situation on our roads a decade ago, this recent reversal is worrying. we need to see the legislative package approved, so that as of late 2015 all new car models will be fitted with the automatic emergency call system in case of serious accident. the automatic transmission of accurate location data, even if the driver and passengers are unconscious, means that emergency services can arrive at the scene up to 50% faster in rural areas. as a ‘dormant’ system that will only be activated to transmit information to the nearest emergency centres in case of serious collision or if manually triggered by the passengers, it will save lives, whilst safeguarding our citizens’ privacy.
madam president, perhaps i will pick up where the last speaker left off in relation to the budget and agriculture. i think, sadly, throughout our discussions on the mff we have been robbing peter to pay paul in the european union budget because of the unwillingness of member states – and indeed of taxpayers in those countries that are net contributors – to pay more. so we have to do more work with less money. on the issue of rural access to broadband, i think the point is well made. i am here to just raise it because, commissioner, you said quite rightly that we have 100% broadband – at least a basic connection – and the trouble with that is, when you know others who have wonderful broadband connections, it is very disappointing and difficult from a business point of view. i live in county meath, in ireland, which is not remote, and yet in my office where i serve my constituents the broadband is terrible. so for people who live in much more remote regions they have greater problems. there are technical solutions and we need to hear more about them and they need to be affordable for people generally.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, i want to thank the rapporteur for his work on this excellent and ambitious report. it is ambitious because it significantly extends the number and type of websites which should be accessible. these types of websites are listed in annex 1a and include a much broader range of websites than were initially included in the commission proposal. i think this is very important because it should mean that virtually all public websites will then be accessible to persons with disabilities, and after all that is what this directive is about. i was more than pleased to see that the rapporteur has taken virtually all of my amendments on board. these amendments were drawn up in conjunction with experts from the disability area in ireland who attended the hearing that the rapporteur spoke about in parliament. they particularly emphasise monitoring and enforcement, and that the competent authorities and bodies should involve organisations representing persons with disabilities. furthermore, there will be opportunities to lodge complaints, and it is stated that such a complaint will be dealt with within a reasonable time frame. crucially we also have to ensure that these competent authorities, when set up, will have the resources necessary to carry out their tasks, and i will be happy to support the rapporteur’s amendment in parliament tomorrow that any penalties for non-compliance should be effective, proportionate and dissuasive. there is now, however, an urgent need to progress this dossier in council. it is my understanding that no substantive discussions have taken place so far. as the rapporteur said earlier, this piece of legislation is long overdue. the commissioner is very supportive, but we now need the greek and italian presidencies to prioritise this important dossier. apart from anything else we have to honour our commitments under the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, and accessible public websites is just one of those commitments.
madam president, clearly we all support the idea that people with disabilities should access information over the website. i have been trying to find out during this debate whether the european parliament’s website is accessible, and i want to thank mr kósa for supplying me with the information that it is not. so, people in glass houses should perhaps not throw stones. i am not sure about the commission, but perhaps the commission would enlighten us and i think the council equally is at fault. so let us aspire, and let individual meps also aspire, to practise what we talk about here. let us also acknowledge that this house needs to put its house in order. briefly, let us not forget, i was asked by the national council for the blind in ireland to be here at this debate and to make the point that, for people with sight loss or who are blind, this is a really important debate. i am happy to support this report, notwithstanding that we have issues to deal with here.
blue-card question. – perhaps it is a little bit too early for this question but how would you define arrogance? i hear a great deal of it from your side of the chamber on occasion and i think that a little bit of humility on all sides would better serve politics. your definition, earl?
mr president, i thought what ashley fox said in relation to some of the barriers may be worth listening to as regards whether language, the language of websites, is an issue. but i would like to raise a particular point which a citizen raised with me last night. i like to bring real concerns to the floor of this house as i think it makes us more real as politicians. what he described was a ‘rip-off’ when buying goods online within the european union delivered into ireland. i think the commissioner might work together with us on this to look at this issue. we want people to buy online and across borders, but let us look at the penalties in terms of the high cost of delivering goods to some member states. perhaps this is more perception than reality, but i think it would be wise for us to look at this issue because my constituent very clearly wants to buy online and across borders but believes that, because he is based in ireland – off the mainland – he is discriminated against and incurs disproportionate costs in that process. so perhaps you will take up that challenge.
mr president, unfortunately this guarantee has the equivalent status of a verbal guarantee by a dodgy used-car salesman. its real purpose is not to provide real jobs for the 5.5 million unemployed young people across europe. instead, it is to try and save the jobs of some meps, like the labour party in ireland, pretending that they are doing something about unemployment when they are actually making the crisis worse. there is no real guarantee here. why? because it has not been funded by all of the institutions. the international labour organisation said that eur[nbsp ]21 billion was necessary. the gue/ngl group tabled an amendment that would have raised the figure to that amount; it was roundly defeated in this parliament. every single other southern irish mep, for example, voted against that amendment. so we are left with a completely inadequate six billion that will be partly used to push free labour schemes. can i ask the commission what it makes of the irish government’s implementation scheme? in particular the fact that the government is using the youth guarantee as a trojan horse to make the jobbridge free labour scheme compulsory, which it has previously said ad nauseam is voluntary and they now say they will cut people’s dole if they do not… (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, earlier this month the irish government published its plan to implement the european youth guarantee. it draws on the experience from the ballymun pilot project. eur[nbsp ]130 million will be available from eu funds over the next two years for the implementation, which is, i believe, an important step in dealing with ireland’s youth unemployment crisis. while the number of people finding work in ireland is rising, with youth unemployment at over 25% and one third of those living in dublin, youth unemployment in ireland is unacceptably high. over the last year, i have organised some six meetings across the length and breadth of dublin city and county, with businesses and youth-education stakeholders, on how the youth guarantee might be rolled out. indeed, i gave the commissioner a copy of the report just before christmas and i have presented this to the irish minister. the irish implementation plan prioritises young people who are most at risk from long-term unemployment. i do believe that it will be important to build on the synergies between the youth guarantee and other initiatives aimed at promoting decent and quality employment, such as the european alliance for apprenticeships and particularly the quality framework for traineeships… (the president cut off the speaker)
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, we do not in this house question the result of the vote of the citizens of switzerland, and nor do we question their right as citizens of a sovereign country to vote on matters of concern to them. but what we are doing this morning is analysing the consequences of their decision. the vote was clear, albeit tight: 50.3% of swiss citizens voted to limit the movement of people into switzerland, including citizens of the european union. support was strongest in regions to which there is very little movement of citizens, but nonetheless, this was the clear outcome of the referendum. as has been mentioned, the cornerstone of our relationship with switzerland dates back to a free trade agreement in the 1970s. there have been other agreements in 1999 and again in 2004 – including the 2002 agreement where we dealt with the free movement of citizens. as i would say, rights come with responsibilities, and very clearly the swiss people know what they expect from us when we sign these agreements, and we are very clear what we expect from our partners and our friends in switzerland. you could interpret the outcome of this vote by the swiss people as a desire to end their agreements with the european union. but it is clear that it is not the case, because the people of switzerland voted on one element and one element only of their long-standing relationship and agreement with us – namely to restrict access to switzerland for citizens, including citizens of the european union. but freedom of movement of people is a fundamental part of our agreement with switzerland and it is a fundamental principle of the european union. the commission has stated, and many commissioners have stated – including here this morning – that it is impossible to restrict free movement of people while expecting to retain and enjoy the benefits of free movement of goods, services and capital. the swiss government has acknowledged that there is now a systemic change in our relationship arising from the referendum outcome. it also acknowledges, as we do, that there is now a period of great uncertainty in switzerland. i understand that some businesses are looking at relocating their business base out of switzerland because of this uncertainty. our swiss partners would like to pick and choose who to allow access to in terms of free movement of people, and there is talk of quotas. this is not possible. quotas are the exact opposite of what we have agreed with our swiss counterparts. there are three years in which this referendum outcome needs to be put in place, but already the government has responded to the outcome by declining to sign the protocol with the european union extending free movement to citizens of croatia. it is that decision, or that inability to sign, that requires us to say we will cancel talks in relation to erasmus and scientific research programmes. i believe that the meps from croatia respect and want us to stand up for their rights. i, for one, do not think that the swiss people want to break our strong ties, but i do think that over the next three years we have to look clearly at the consequences. agreements can be renegotiated, but they cannot be fundamentally altered. it is impossible to come to the table with an irrevocable position and expect partners to bend and yield. the people of switzerland have spoken, but let the eu be clear that we expect full adherence to all our agreements, we defend the principle of free movement of people as a core and defining principle and we await clarity from our swiss partners.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, as chairman of the parliamentary delegation with responsibility for swiss relations, on behalf of my own group, alde, i am also extremely disappointed by the recent referendum, but we must, of course, accept it as a democratic decision by the swiss people. the decision that we are now facing is very complex, it is very difficult and there are a lot of sensitivities. our colleague who was brandishing the swiss national flag today was not helpful. i believe that we should not say anything which would inflame the situation. the economies of the union and switzerland are deeply interlinked. more than 60% of swiss exports go to the european union, and in fact switzerland’s trade with the neighbouring german state of baden-württemberg is higher than with the us. according to a recent study published by the credit suisse bank, introducing quotas means that 80 000 jobs may not be created in the future and that economic growth in switzerland may be lowered over the next three years by almost 0.3%. the eu should refrain from anything perceived as retaliation. we need to take into account the new legal situation and react accordingly. the union should clearly communicate its red lines – and there are red lines. most of us consider that the free movement of persons is a fundamental right guaranteed to eu citizens by the treaties and that it should not be compromised. let me mention, just as a footnote, that turkey and israel are participating in the horizon 2020 programme, although these countries have no agreement covering free movement. i believe the discussion on the implementation of the vote in the different areas of eu-swiss cooperation points again to the very fragmented nature of eu-swiss relations and demonstrates the need for an agreement which would tackle the different issues in eu-switzerland relations in a comprehensive manner. that is something which this house asked for in 2010. in conclusion, mr president, i urge the member states to adopt the eu mandate for negotiations... (the president cut off the speaker)
tá sé seo i gcoinne theanga na héireann – an ghaeilge. molaim do na feisirí vótáil i gcoinne é seo mar is ionsaí eile é ar ár dteanga dhúchais – an ghaeilge.
mr[nbsp ]president, ecall is a satellite-based electronic notification system that automatically sends a signal to the nearest emergency call centre when a serious accident occurs. it transmits data such as the exact location, the vehicle id and the time of the accident. this rapidity is crucial in what is termed the ‘golden hour’. i pay a tribute to mr[nbsp ]de[nbsp ]backer and to dieter koch and, indeed, to all of my colleagues on the committee on transport and tourism and the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, who have worked for the past decade on this project. the major benefit of ecall will be to reduce the number of fatalities and the consequences of injuries caused by road accidents, because it will mean emergency services arriving at the scenes of accidents more quickly. the shorter the rescue time – the faster the arrival of rescue teams, police and towing firms – the sooner an accident scene can be cleared, and ecall will thus reduce congestion time and contribute to the efficiency of road transport in europe through the reduction of external costs. this is an excellent system and i commend the rapporteur and everybody on the transport committee who had an input.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, as it introduces a timeline for the adoption of e-call infrastructure in new vehicles. this should help address the number of road fatalities and increase road safety.
in writing. - i welcome the adoption of the parliament’s position on the interoperability of the rail system within the eu. further standardisation and interoperability of rolling stock should ensure greater economies of scale for future investment in the irish rail network. greater oversight by the european railway agency of railway safety must aim to continually improve the good safety record of railways across europe. in seeking to reduce the over 10[nbsp ]000 existing national authorisation procedures, we must also take account of the small size and the specificities of the irish rail network, given our lack of connections with the continental rail network. for this reason, i very much welcome the adoption of amendment 102, which provides greater scope and flexibility for member states like ireland with more isolated rail networks and which would allow for specific cooperation between the european rail agency and the two national safety authorities operating on the island of ireland. i would urge the council to now work with meps to reach a final agreement on this proposal.
mr[nbsp ]president, all workers in civil aviation are burdened with huge responsibility when it comes to guaranteeing and looking after the safety of their own colleagues and that of passengers in general. among the preconditions for the safety for all passengers, therefore, are decent working conditions, decent working hours and wages, as well as health and safety standards, and respect for basic trade union rights. these things must be guaranteed for all workers in the sector. profit-greedy ryanair is notorious for its cost-cutting, for its trade-union-busting policies and its intimidation of its own employees. it alleged bullying and intimidation by its own pilots but when it took legal action to have the names revealed of those who had posted critical comments on a website, a high court judge in ireland found that the only evidence of bullying was by ryanair itself. this report gives some additional protection to employees and crew members who report safety incidents in civil aviation. it will introduce an appeal mechanism for employees who find themselves punished for reporting an incident. it constitutes one step in the right direction in terms of allowing workers to speak out.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this draft legislation which will save lives. 50% of deaths related to car accidents occur within the first few minutes. therefore, emergency services must be alerted as soon as possible in order for them to arrive within the crucial few minutes after the accident. this regulation would require car manufacturers to install an ecall in-vehicle system in all new cars sold after 2015. the system activates after a serious accident and automatically sends an emergency call which includes the car’s location. although i am in favour of this life-saving system, i had some concerns in relation to privacy. i voted in favour of amendments which would make the system optional for drivers and which would require it to be fitted with an on/off switch so drivers have a choice. however, these amendments did not pass.
in writing. - i would welcome the roll-out of a europe-wide e-call service. every second is crucial when a serious road accident occurs. the driver or passengers may be unconscious, may be unable to call emergency services due to a language barrier, or may be travelling in a country or in a terrain with which they are unfamiliar. vehicles fitted with e-call would automatically communicate the vehicle’s location to emergency services. it is estimated that this would result in emergency services reaching an accident scene 60% quicker in urban areas and 50% in rural areas. this could result in 2[nbsp ]500 fewer road deaths, as well as reduce the severity of injuries in thousands of cases. this technology has been available for a number of years, but so far it is fitted in less than 1% of cars across europe, mostly at the higher end of the market. eu regulation is needed to require all member states to deploy the necessary public safety answering point (psap) infrastructure by october 2015. i welcome in particular the amendments protecting citizens’ personal data and privacy. e-call must not be a tracking device and must only be activated when an accident occurs.
in writing. - i wholly welcome the ehealth action plan as a tool for promoting health awareness among our citizens and boosting it literacy through training. given that we are all living longer, ict can help the elderly generation stay healthy, independent and active in their communities. it is all about improving the health and well-being of our citizens and that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. - i welcome the adoption of the eu health programme (2014-20). the new programme will have four main goals: first, preventing illness by addressing the main risk factors such as tobacco, alcohol abuse, lack of exercise, poor diet; second, protecting citizens from serious cross-border threats to health; third, helping create innovative and viable health systems; fourth, improving access to better and safer quality healthcare for all citizens i believe we have reached a good agreement with the member states and the commission. we have raised the eu’s co-financing rate from 60% to 80%, thereby facilitating participation by member states such as my own that are facing continuing budgetary difficulties. we have rebalanced the programme away from the health industry-centred approach set out in the commission’s original proposal to one that serves first and foremost the people of europe. and we have prioritised the need to address physical and mental health, health inequalities, lifestyles factors such as alcohol, smoking and nutrition, gender and age-related diseases, and succeeded in adding action on health literacy and supporting ngos and their networks.
in writing. - mr president, i voted in favour of this directive to ensure that all 761[nbsp ]000 websites managed by public sector bodies in the european union are accessible to everyone, including disabled people and the elderly. less than 30% of public sector websites meet international web-accessibility standards. i call on the irish government to put pressure on the greek presidency to prioritise this directive in the council, which has yet to begin discussions on this directive. this directive would benefit the 167 million citizens of the european union who have difficulties accessing public websites. the majority of my colleagues and i voted for an amendment which makes the directive more ambitious and would ensure that all public sector websites are accessible; not just those in the 12 categories proposed by the european commission.
in writing. - almost 170 million eu citizens currently have difficulty accessing the 750[nbsp ]000 public sector websites across europe that offer access to information and services. whereas almost two-thirds of citizens have internet access, only one third currently meet international web-accessibility standards, such as enabling the user to enlarge texts and images, underlining clickable links, making the website navigable with a key-board alone, or enriching videos with sign language, this proposed directive would require member states to ensure that all public websites are fully accessible by 2015 for all new content and for all existing content by 2017 at the latest. i want to see this directive covering not just the 12 categories proposed by the commission (e.g. social security, enrolment in higher education etc.) but also applying to websites provided by private entities that perform services of a general or public interest (e.g. electricity, heating, transport, health etc.). this proposal is in line with the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, which has been ratified by almost all member states. in our increasingly digital world, all public-orientated websites should be accessible to everyone, including people with disabilities and the elderly.
in writing. - europe needs to adopt binding rules guaranteeing that the exploitation and the trade by european companies and companies operating in europe in minerals and natural resources from conflict-zones and high-risk areas do not promote or fund conflicts and human rights abuses in those regions. a voluntary certification system will not be sufficient. we need a binding regulation covering a comprehensive list of minerals and natural resources, similar to the us dodd-frank law of 2010 which requires companies quoted on the us stock exchange to inspect the origin of minerals sourced in central africa.
member of the commission. - madam president, i am pleased to stand before you at an important point in the journey we are undertaking with indonesia. it started back in 2006 with the opening of negotiations for the flegt voluntary partnership agreement by my predecessor, commissioner dimas. first, of course, i would first like to thank the rapporteur, mr yannick jadot, as well as the shadow rapporteurs, for the work which has been done. i really appreciate it and i very much value it. as with all negotiations, the end result is both a compromise between the interests of the parties involved in the process and a compromise between aspiration and realism. we think it is a good result! hence i was pleased and honoured to represent the commission at the signature of the european union-indonesia flegt voluntary partnership agreement on 30[nbsp ]september last year. i was happy to note that the committee on international trade voted unanimously in favour of the legislative resolution to give parliament’s consent to the conclusion of this agreement. i look forward to the plenary vote tomorrow. turning to the resolution now under discussion, i would like to highlight the issue of civil society involvement in monitoring the implementation of the timber legality verification system, called svlk. this is mentioned in paragraphs[nbsp ]13, 14, 17 and 18 of the resolution. the recognition afforded to civil society in the agreement is crucial to ensuring the credibility of the system. but for it to be effective, there is a need for capacity-building, for access to information and access to forest areas, as well as to protect monitors. we take good note of the recommendations made by parliament in this regard. some concerns raised in the resolution, such as clarifying traditional forest tenure rights, go beyond the remit of what the commission can deliver inside the vpa process and are also likely to take a number of years to resolve. so it would not be advisable to link, as suggested in paragraph[nbsp ]21, solutions to these issues with the decision to operationalise the flegt licensing scheme. nor would it be appropriate, as suggested in paragraph[nbsp ]19, for the commission to directly intervene in the affairs of a sovereign state. in conclusion, with these clarifications, i welcome highly the overall positive message concerning this flegt agreement and parliament’s resolution. i look forward to our debate on this landmark agreement and i would like to thank you again for your hard work and for the seriousness with which you have approached this important file.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – mr president, robert green ingersoll once said: ‘in nature there are neither rewards nor punishments, there are consequences’. and the consequences of deforestation are life-threatening for biodiversity, indigenous communities and anyone living on this planet. deforestation is man-made. it is often directly linked to corruption, fraud, money-laundering and the general greed of a profit-driven system. the scale of deforestation in indonesia is alarming. further incentives for palm oil production – the single biggest cause of deforestation in indonesia – add to the problem. multinationals such as ferrero, unilever, nestlé, mondelez (formerly kraft), l’oreal, hershey and wilmar international are just some of the profiteers responsible. if anything has changed, it is solely down to public pressure. i am in favour of every step to combat illegal logging and stop illegally logged timber entering the eu market. but i am also in favour – as we are doing now – of parliament identifying potential flaws in the scheme and not taking the current flegt as the be-all and end-all. independent civil society monitoring is necessary. flegt-licenced companies proven to be involved in money-laundering and corruption must have their licences revoked. i have supported the rapporteur’s initial position throughout and rejected any attempts to water it down.
thar ceann an ghrúpa alde. – a uachtaráin, ba mhaith liom mo bhuíochas a chur in iúl don uasal wałęsa as ucht an cheist seo a ardú. norway has been an important ally of the eu when it comes to the arctic. thug an iorua tacaíocht ar leith don aontas eorpach agus stádas breathnadóra ar an chomhairle artach á bhaint amach. tá comhoibriú eolaíoch suntasach ar bun ó thaobh cheantar svalbard de, go háirithe sa mhéid a bhaineann le hathrú aeráide agus cúrsaí comhshaoil, mar a chonaic mé féin agus mé ag tabhairt cuairt ar svalbard i mí meitheamh na bliana seo caite. while visiting svalbard, i also had the possibility to study the sea ice loss, which has made fisheries resources more accessible in that area. is ábhar tábhachtach reachtach í ceist na gceart iascaireachta sa cheantar, mar sin, agus ní mór go ndéanfaí an staid dhlíthiúil a shoiléiriú. the commission needs to seek the necessary clarifications from the norwegian government with the aim of ensuring non-discriminatory treatment of eu member states in the svalbard archipelago. beidh sé tráthúil an cheist seo a phlé anois. tá rialtas an hiorua faoin phríomh-aire solberg tiomanta go maith don chomhoibriú idir an taontas eorpach agus an iorua agus é tugtha le tuiscint aici go bhfuil sé i gceist aici an nasc leis an aontas eorpach a daingniú. it is also important that norway and the eu already cooperate successfully in joint management of fish stocks in the north atlantic. once again, i want to thank our colleague mr wałęsa for giving us this opportunity and to thank the commissioner for responding on behalf of the fisheries commissioner.
mr[nbsp ]president, what a spectacle we have in this parliament: the right[nbsp ]wing discovering the human rights that they forgot about in iraq, that they forgot about in bahrain, that they forgot about in colombia, and rubbing their hands in glee, together with their counterparts in venezuela and in the us, hoping for the fall of the venezuelan government! why? because, since hugo chávez came to power, it has posed a real threat and has been a thorn in the side of the washington consensus of neo-liberalism and austerity – of precisely the policies we have here. because the public-spending programmes, the bolivarian misiones, have raised the living standards of working-class people and the poor in venezuela, and because people all around the world have been inspired the prospect of socialism in the 21st century. i have a message to all of you: no pasaran – you shall not pass. the last coup was defeated by mobilisations of workers, young people and poor people. this attempt can also be defeated. people can mobilise, people can force the forces of reaction back and push the revolutionary process forward, including by ending the power of sections of the opposition over the economy through their private ownership of key sections of it, and by democratic public ownership of such key sections of the economy and of the financial sector. ¡hasta la victoria siempre! (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule[nbsp ]149(8))
blue-card answer. – i do not believe that these counter-revolutionary reactionary movements will be defeated by political repression. that is not the reality of what is happening in venezuela at the moment. the violence is coming from the right; us imperialism has a hand in it; there are mobilisations of the right within venezuela itself. if you look at the character of the protests – who is participating – it is the elite layers in society, the rich students, etc. the answer is not repression; the answer is mobilisation by the workers and poor to defend the gains of the revolution and to push if forward.
mr president, i have a particular interest in venezuela because i happen to have a brother who has been a catholic missionary there since 1979. he works amongst the poor. i can tell you that the people of venezuela are very nice, they are decent people and they long for peace and prosperity, a prosperity which has been denied them for many years under chávez. it should be a very rich country with its oil reserves, but these have been given exclusively to an élite. his successor is now finding it difficult because he does not maybe have the same charisma as chávez to hold on to power and is resorting to undemocratic means. you have to respect a free press. you have to respect a free opposition. particularly when the next elections come they have to be monitored internationally so that they are free and proper. with regard to the results, whoever gets into power must respect the freedom of everybody. they must try and raise the standards of the poor so they can all benefit from what should be a very rich country.
mr[nbsp ]president, firstly i would like to thank the conference of presidents for acceding to our request at the last plenary for a discussion in parliament on this topic of great importance to our citizens. i would also like to thank commissioner hahn, whom i and my colleagues met in january and who showed flexibility and understanding of the problem. however, since our meeting with commissioner hahn, this situation has got increasingly worse. the recent ‘storm darwin’ did more damage than all the previous storms during december and early january. so it is important that we discuss it and that we send a clear message to member states that they should carry out a comprehensive analysis of the damage done, and then make an application to the eu solidarity fund. the fund may not be as big as it was, but in times of crisis people look to the european union for help. we have a golden opportunity here to stand with those who have suffered enormously. in my own constituency, in clare, kerry, cork, waterford and wexford, farms, roads, houses, coastlines and beaches have all been severely damaged and people are looking for help. rather than saying that we will respond if we get an application, we should be encouraging people to apply and saying that we will stand by them as we would do when giving humanitarian aid across the world. it is time for us to stand by our own citizens in europe so that they can get help and see that europe works for them.
mr president, the extreme weather has caused severe damage to infrastructure and property across ireland. the government announced recently that it was not applying for the eu solidarity fund in view of the fact that the expense does not reach the threshold. this is in sharp contrast with 2009 when the late minister of finance, brian lenihan, applied and secured eur[nbsp ]13[nbsp ]million. i am calling on the government, even at this late stage, to submit an application. a comprehensive flood defence strategy for rural and coastal communities is also immediately required. i believe that the government should make an immediate application to the european investment bank, where funding is available. i also call on the government to put in place a comprehensive scheme for the damage and loss suffered by all our fishermen, who have had little or no income during the course of the last three months. mr coveney must, in addition to national funding, also utilise the emff which has been approved by committee and will be approved by this house at the next session.
mr[nbsp ]president, this debate is important because we are talking about people who are being adversely affected by the unusual weather patterns. certainly, we in this house have an issue around the budget: we are not the collectors of tax in europe. we have had a tragic situation in that the reduction in the solidarity fund was real, and is having an impact, and that is something we need to take cognisance of. in ireland we have had problems in the north, the south-east and the west. i visited farmers in galway where they are flooded even as we speak, and more than 20 roads are closed. the irish government has provided eur[nbsp ]70[nbsp ]million from our own resources to help, as well as eur[nbsp ]25[nbsp ]million in humanitarian assistance. of course, much more is needed. the lesson we should learn from this experience is that we do need more funding for solidarity. in ireland, the government’s position is that, because of the budget cut and the stricter criteria of application, there would have been very little to receive in terms of support – about eur[nbsp ]1 to 1.7 million. let us show solidarity with our citizens.
in writing. – the extreme weather has caused massive damage to infrastructure and property across ireland. however, the irish government announced recently that it was not going to apply for eu solidarity funding, in view of the fact that the expense of the damage incurred is below the threshold. this decision is extremely hard to comprehend, as the fact of the matter is that the application submitted in 2009 following severe flooding the same year was also below the threshold. however, the then government submitted a regional-based application, which ultimately proved to be successful, as ireland received eur[nbsp ]13 million. a comprehensive flood defence strategy for rural and coastal communities is also immediately required. this is an enormous challenge, with the cost difficult to estimate. we strongly urge the irish government to examine the possibility of securing finance to meet this cost at favourable rates of interest from the eib. we also call on the government to put in place a compensation scheme for the damage and loss suffered by all fishermen, who have had little or no income over the course of the last three months. minister coveney must also utilise funding under the emff, in addition to national funding.
in writing. – the extreme weather has caused massive damage to infrastructure and property across ireland. however, the irish government announced recently that it was not going to apply for eu solidarity funding, in view of the fact that the expense of the damage incurred is below the threshold. this decision is extremely hard to comprehend, as the fact of the matter is that the application submitted in 2009 following severe flooding the same year was also below the threshold. however, the then government submitted a regional-based application, which ultimately proved to be successful, as ireland received eur[nbsp ]13 million. a comprehensive flood defence strategy for rural and coastal communities is also immediately required. this is an enormous challenge, with the cost difficult to estimate. we strongly urge the irish government to examine the possibility of securing finance to meet this cost at favourable rates of interest from the eib. we also call on the government to put in place a compensation scheme for the damage and loss suffered by all fishermen, who have had little or no income over the course of the last three months. minister coveney must also utilise funding under the emff, in addition to national funding.
in writing. – the extreme weather has caused massive damage to infrastructure and property across ireland. however, the irish government announced recently that it was not going to apply for eu solidarity funding, in view of the fact that the expense of the damage incurred is below the threshold. this decision is extremely hard to comprehend, as the fact of the matter is that the application submitted in 2009 following severe flooding the same year was also below the threshold. however, the then government submitted a regional-based application, which ultimately proved to be successful, as ireland received eur[nbsp ]13 million. a comprehensive flood defence strategy for rural and coastal communities is also immediately required. this is an enormous challenge, with the cost difficult to estimate. we strongly urge the irish government to examine the possibility of securing finance to meet this cost at favourable rates of interest from the eib. we also call on the government to put in place a compensation scheme for the damage and loss suffered by all fishermen, who have had little or no income over the course of the last three months. minister coveney must also utilise funding under the emff, in addition to national funding.
mr[nbsp ]president, i was intrigued by the title of this report: ‘specific actions in the common fisheries policy for developing the role of women’. my first reaction was that surely this was not necessary in the european union in the year 2014 but, having read the report and listened to the debate, i recognise that it is necessary and very badly needed, and therefore i compliment those who have brought the issue to our attention today. as the rapporteur pointed out, 100[nbsp ]000 women work in the fisheries sector, often doing back-breaking jobs like working nets, picking shellfish and other jobs in aquaculture, and there is no proper structure to afford them recognition. the situation is appalling in this day and age, and the measures proposed should be implemented as soon as possible – to provide statistics, to provide training, to provide backup and to provide moral support and recognition. these things are absolutely vital, and i compliment those who have brought the topic forward. hopefully we will not have to debate it again.
in writing. - tobacco causes more than 700[nbsp ]000 deaths across europe, and more than 5[nbsp ]000 in ireland, each year. it is our duty as parliamentarians to enact legislation to try to prevent this from continuing. we know that it is children, not adults, who start smoking: 70% of smokers begin before their 18th birthday, many younger still. a recent world health organization survey among 15-year olds reveals a worrying upward trend since 2005. the main focus of our work here must therefore be to deter young people from starting to smoke. we need to stop tobacco companies targeting young people with an array of gimmicky products. the agreement reached by the european parliament is fair and balanced. it seeks to ban misleading flavours and products and strengthen health warnings on packages. we hope these restrictions will go some way towards deterring young people from starting to smoke. member states will, of course, be able to go further and implement plain packaging if they so wish, and the revised tobacco products directive is a good starting point.
in writing. - i supported the tobacco products directive as i share a genuine commitment to the introduction of robust and effective legislation at an eu and national level aimed at preventing smoking and smoking-related health problems. that said, i am disappointed with the outcome of the trilogue agreement with respect to the minimum size of roll-your-own tobacco products. i am concerned that the decision to increase the minimum size of roll-your-own tobacco products from 12.5g to 30g may have implications for employment in my european constituency.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report as it is an important and positive step in addressing smoking in the eu. i fully support moves to tackle the high number of young smokers in the eu and to highlight the health implications of smoking.
in writing. - prostitution and sexual exploitation is a form of violence against women, an obstacle to equality and an open door for crime. it legalises men buying the sexual abuse of women. i fully support the nordic legislative model where the purchase of sex is criminalised and the sale of sex is decriminalised. it is based on the idea of demand reduction, that when demand is reduced, through education and the threat of fines, there are fewer incentives for prostitution to exist. making prostitution less financially lucrative for criminal organisations is a vital arsenal in reducing prostitution. the report highlights the link between prostitution and trafficking and points out that 62% of women trafficked into eu are trafficked for sexual exploitation. moreover, the report highlights the reality that prostitution is not a profession of choice for the majority of women involved, but that those involved find it difficult to exit in a safe manner. this report highlights the complex legal, health and social issues associated with prostitution. it calls on member states to provide mechanisms for comprehensive exit strategies out of prostitution.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report as i fully support all efforts to tackle prostitution and sexual exploitation in the eu.
a uachtaráin, bhí áthas orm freisin tacaíocht a thabhairt do na moltaí seo. ba mhaith liom an obair a dhéanann solvit a mholadh. gan dabht ar bith tá siad ag tabhairt an-chabhair agus tá a fhios agamsa faoi sin ó shaoránaigh i mo cheantar féin. cabhraíonn siad le daoine maidir le víosaí, ceadúnais gluaisteáin, obair thar lear, árachas sláinte agus, go háirithe, chun cáilíochtaí a aithint trasna teorainneacha. ag an am céanna, is dócha gur féidir feabhas a chur ar aon rud. cé go bhfuil siad ag déanamh an chuid is mó den obair taobh istigh de 10 seachtaine, dá mbeadh sé níos tapúla bheadh sé sin níos fearr. ag an am céanna, ba cheart an obair a leathnú amach, go háirithe chun cabhrú le lucht gnó. ba chóir dúinn freisin i bhfad níos mó a dhéanamh chun an t-eolas a thabhairt do shaoránaigh agus do lucht gnó go bhfuil an chabhair seo ar fáil trí solvit. déanann sé an-difríocht mar coimeádann sé na costais síos mar nach mbíonn orthu dul os comhair na cúirte. dá bhrí sin, molaim an tuarascáil seo agus táim ag súil go leathnóidh sé amach amach anseo.
a uachtaráin, tá áthas orm tacaíocht a thabhairt don tuarascáil seo chomh maith. bhí an chuid is mó de na feisirí ina fabhar, agus is maith sin. mar atá luaite againn go minic sa pharlaimint seo, táimid ag cailliúint an iomarca airgid ar fad trí choiriúlacht de gach saghas. caithfimid i gcónaí a bheith ar an airdeall faoi cad atá ag tarlú, agus freisin a bheith ag féachaint ar shlite inar féidir an scéal a fheabhsú agus go háirithe daoine a thabhairt os comhair na cúirte. tá sé an-tábhachtach mar sin go mbeadh comhoibriú trasna teorainneacha ann gan cur isteach ar na cearta sibhialta atá ag daoine – ach tá sé sin go léir luaite sa tuarascáil. má chuirimid na moltaí seo i bhfeidhm, beidh an saol níos fearr do na saoránaigh atá macánta agus beidh sé níos deacra orthu siúd nach bhfuil macánta. sin an rud ba chóir dúinn a dhéanamh.
a uachtaráin, bhí áthas orm tacaíocht a thabhairt don mholadh seo chomh maith, go háirithe mar go mbaineann sé leis an moldóiv. tá an-dul chun cinn déanta ag an tír sin agus táimid ag rá anois gur ceart an mholdóiv a chur ar an liosta dearfach – tá sí ar an liosta diúltach faoi láthair. tugann sé sin aitheantas don dul chun cinn atá déanta inti. tabharfaidh mé sampla ar leith: tá cailín, nó go deimhin bean uasal álainn, thuas staighre atá ina stagiaire anseo agus tagann sí ón moldóiv. tháinig sí go héirinn cúpla bliain ó shin. taispeánann sé an sprid atá i muintir na moldóive gur fhoghlaim sí gaolainn fiú amháin – cé go raibh sé deacair di agus í ag dul ar scoil agus í ag freastal ar scoil nua agus mar sin de. agus tá sí ag déanamh jab iontach. dá bhrí sin, táimid ag rá anseo go bhfuilimid ag tabhairt aitheantais don dul chun cinn atá déanta ag an moldóiv agus go bhfuilimid ag ligint dóibh taisteal le níos mó saoirse ná mar a bhí acu go dtí seo. tá sé tuillte acu. sa tslí sin tabharfaimid sprid agus cabhair agus comhoibriú don mhuintir i gcoitinne agus is maith é sin a dhéanamh.
a uachtaráin, bhí áthas orm tacaíocht a thabhairt don tuarascáil seo agus gan dabht ar bith tá rudaí ag gluaiseacht go han-tapaidh san úcráin. tá an príomh-aire yanukovich imithe anois agus tá seans acu an daonlathas a bhunú i gceart sa tír sin. caithfimidne a bheith an-chúramach nach mbeimid ag cur isteach ar chúrsaí inmheánacha na tíre agus go mbeidh cead ag muintir na tíre a n-aigne a dhéanamh suas faoi cá rud ba mhian leo a dhéanamh amach anseo. dá bhrí sin tá moladh mór, is dóigh liom, ag dul d’elmar brok agus do na daoine a chuir na moltaí seo le chéile, mar tá siad leibhéalta agus ciallmhar. bhí áthas orm freisin gur ligeadh saor yulia tymoshenko. le cúnamh dé, beidh sí ag teacht go baile átha cliath an tseachtain seo chugainn do chomhdháil epp agus tá súil agam go mbeidh sí an-sláintiúil agus go mbeidh seans aici páirt mhór a ghlacadh ina tír amach anseo.
a uachtaráin, cé go bhfuil saddam hussein imithe agus cé go bhfuil arm mheiriceá imithe abhaile, níl síocháin san iaráic. a mhalairt ar fad, tá rudaí ag dul ar gcúl. chonaiceamar an foréigean le cúpla mí anuas agus na céadta duine á marú. is truamhéalach an scéal é. is deacair a rá cad a tharlóidh amach anseo; is dócha go bhfuil an dainséar ann go mbeidh cogadh cathartha ann. dá bhrí sin tá sé tábhachtach dúinne san aontas agus go háirithe do baroness ashton, atá ag déanamh an-chuid oibre trasna an domhan ar fad, pé rud is féidir a dhéanamh chun feabhas a chur ar an scéal ansin. freisin, ba cheart cothrom an féinne a thabhairt do gach grúpa: na shias, na sunnis agus críostaithe, ach go háirithe. tá sé an-tábhachtach chomh maith nach ndéanfaimid dearmad orthu siúd. sin rud atá an-tábhachtach dúinne i mo ghrúpa féin, epp.
in writing. - i welcome the adoption of parliament’s resolution on fundamental rights in the eu in 2012. in particular, i welcome the call for the establishment of a new mechanism to monitor compliance with the criteria for accession to the eu (the ‘copenhagen criteria’) once a country has actually joined the eu. it does not make sense that candidate countries’ countries human rights records, including in relation to the right of association, receive greater scrutiny outside rather than inside the eu. such a mechanism should apply to all member states, not just those that have recently become member states, and should include setting objective indicators, binding recommendations and the imposition of sanctions for repeated non-compliance with these criteria. the fundamental rights of all citizens must be respected. i also welcome the call to revise article 7 teu, which sets out the rules for determining whether there is a clear risk of a serious breach of eu values in a member state, so as to clearly separate the ‘risk’ and ‘violation’ stages. i would now urge the commission and the member states to act on the recommendations set out in this resolution.
in writing. - we abstained on amendment 10 of the report on the situation of fundamental rights in the european union (2012) because, whereas we support social justice, it requires more than legislation to bring it about.
in writing. - i abstained in the final vote as there are aspects of this report which i cannot support. however, there are paragraphs which are positive, including paragraph 50, which i fully support. to vote against would be to reject everything, to vote in favour would indicate my support for the entirety of the report. by abstaining, i am making the point that this report is unbalanced in many respects.
in writing. - the european arrest warrant has had many achievements in the fight against cross-border crime. however, the legislative framework relating to the european arrest warrant was hurriedly adopted in the aftermath of the 9/11 terrorist attacks and has significant flaws. i voted for this report as it urges the european commission to look into reforming the european arrest warrant to ensure that the rules protect the procedural rights of persons subject to such a warrant. the current framework has numerous flaws and has resulted in numerous cases being brought before the european court of justice. its flaws include a lack of proportionality, human rights issues and inappropriate use during the pre-trial stage prior to an investigation being completed. three directives have been adopted with the aim of protecting procedural rights, but these reforms need to be complemented by a reform of the european arrest warrant procedure without undermining its efficiency.
a uachtaráin, arís thug mé tacaíocht do na moltaí seo. maidir le veiniséala, is féidir a rá go bhfuil tíortha bochta ar an domhan agus nach bhfuil acmhainn rómhór acu, ach go bhfuil tíortha bochta eile ann agus gur cheart dóibh a bheith saibhir – agus ceann díobh siúd is ea veiniséala. tá saibhreas aici, go háirithe saibhreas ola, ach i réim chávez ní bhfuair muintir veiniséala aon tacaíocht ón saibhreas sin. tá sé sin ar eolas agamsa, mar tá deartháir agam ina shagart amuigh i veiniséala le fada an lá ó 1979 agus is minic a rabhamar ag caint faoi chávez agus cad a bhí ar siúl aige. anois tá uachtarán nua ann, ach faraor níl rudaí ag dul i bhfeabhas. i ndáiríre, tá sé soiléir gur gá an daonlathas a bhunú go ceart i veiniséala agus gur ceart deireadh a chur le coiriúlacht, agus go háirithe leis an muintir atá ag plé le drugaí agus mar sin de. dá bhrí sin, ba chóir dúinn pé cabhair is féidir linn a thabhairt dóibh amach anseo chun é sin a dhéanamh.
a uachtaráin, chuir sé saghas ionadh orm nuair a chonaic mé go raibh an t-ábhar seo ar an gclár, mar gur cheap mé – sa lá atá inniu ann, i 2014 – go mbeadh cothromaíocht idir na gnéasanna maidir le gach aon ghnó san aontas eorpach. ach de réir dealraimh, ní mar sin atá. dá bhrí sin, tá na moltaí seo os ár gcomhair agus tá áthas orm gur glacadh iad le móramh mór ar maidin. ar a laghad, tá sé sin ag rá go bhfuil tuiscint againn don scéal agus go bhfuilimid chun seasamh leis na mná atá ag obair sa tionscal seo: suas le 100[nbsp ]000 díobh trasna na heorpa ar fad. caithfear aitheantas a thabhairt dóibh ar dtús. freisin ansin, caithfear córas a bhunú chun tacú leo nuair a bhíonn siad ag obair, nuair a bhíonn siad breoite agus mar sin de. tá sé seo go léir luaite insan tuarascáil seo. i ndáiríre, ba chóir dúinn é a chur i bhfeidhm chomh tapaidh agus is féidir chun a thaispeáint go bhfuil cothromaíocht idir na gnéasanna san aontas eorpach i ngach uile aird.
madam president, i would like to thank the rapporteur for his work on this report. i would be interested in some observations on paragraph[nbsp ]12 about the level of funding for the programme countries, but i also acknowledge that, in terms of ireland, the support there has increased by 35[nbsp ]% to eur[nbsp ]680 million in 2013 and that a lot of this investment has gone to communications, broadband, energy and education. so clearly they are vital parts of the economy. in terms of smes, there is a fund of eur[nbsp ]200 million. do you see the possibility of providing more for that sector? because there are concerns that, in terms of credit and financing, ireland could perhaps face another crisis in the sme sector when the bank stress tests are completed. it is something that i have a concern about. it was raised by professor morgan kelly, who perhaps has a track record of predicting the unpredictable, and i think it might be worthy of comment.
mr president, i will not add to the colourful contribution of the last speaker about compost heaps and all sorts of things, but i think this debate has been useful because there is unity of purpose in the chamber. commissioner, i would add my voice on a different level. my concern is that it is a massive proposal. we are coming to the end of our legislature, and there is a danger of rushed legislation. i do not take it as a criticism of you (as others are suggesting) that you have come forward with it. i would rather you saw the value of a second look at this proposal. some of the issues raised by colleagues are – i was going to say pedantic – but occasionally they come up with the fact that this is about endangering small farmers; it is about big business; it is about monoculture. it seems to me that there is one underlying issue here, which we all have a concern about, and that is the control of a very small number of players in the seed industry. perhaps we need another commissioner to look at that issue from a competition point of view.
mr[nbsp ]president, i have a keen interest in the delivery in ireland of the leader programme, which is more than 50[nbsp ]% co-financed under the eu rural development programme. as minister with responsibility for the gaeltacht, i was directly involved in the design of the first, pilot leader programme in ireland. the hallmark of the programme is its bottom-up approach, with the participation of local communities at the heart of the leader ethos. the approach in ireland is recognised by the eu institutions as a template for other member states to follow. i am deeply opposed to the irish government’s plans to change the leader programme by adding extra layers of bureaucracy and red tape. this is another example of removing responsibilities from skilled and highly-experienced professionals. regrettably, the leader programme will face a 23[nbsp ]% reduction in funding. moreover, an interim fund is required to bridge the gap between the current and the next round of leader funds. i strongly urge the minister and the government to provide this necessary funding. finally, i call on the minister, even at this late stage, to reconsider ... (the president cut off the speaker)
a uachtaráin, gan dabht ar bith is ábhar an-tábhachtach é seo agus tá moladh mór ag dul don rapóirtéir as ucht an dea-obair a rinne sé. tá moladh ag dul freisin do mo chomhghleacaí astrid lulling, bean atá anois cúig bliana agus ceithre scór agus is eiseamláir í den tseirbhís phoiblí – tá jab maith déanta acu. one of the key points made in ireland as being the cause of our demise for a while – thankfully now we are recovering – was not the lack of regulation but the lack of application of the regulations. that was because of a lack of supervision. i think having eu-wide rules and eu-wide supervision is necessary, firstly to learn a lesson from what transpired, and, secondly, to show that, no matter who is dealing with the situation, there should always be somebody above them to assess their work. i think this is what this will do. it will guarantee equality, it will guarantee consistency, and it will guarantee that the regulators do their job from now on.
mr president, this is a very interesting topic. it is obvious that, in the age we are living in, the public, quite rightly, want more information and more transparency, and they want access to documents, above all given willingly rather than having to be extracted like hen’s teeth. this has to be primarily in terms of the way we deal with issues in parliament, but it must also apply to other institutions. sophia in ’t veld – who has done tremendous work in this area, along with michael cashman and anna maria corazza bildt – has mentioned the epp. i am not directly involved myself but, having read their comments, i can see that they wish to make a distinction between access to documents, access to procedure and the space to think. this is obviously something that will probably need further discussion and negotiation in due course, but it would be ideal if we could get agreement across the house on what transparency is and which documents are available – and willingly available – to citizens at all times.
mr president, i thank the rapporteur for his work on this report. i have just a few observations. the committee on petitions is certainly a place of access for citizens, judging by the numbers of people who come to us. i still have some concern about how we handle all those people who bring petitions to us, the timeliness of our response, and also how we judge the admissibility of petitions, but it is clear that european citizens have greater trust in parliament’s committee on petitions than they perhaps have in their own parliaments’ petitions committees. even though we say there is a distrust of institutions, i am always impressed when people come to europe for a solution to a national problem. the committee plays a key role in linking with citizens and very often achieves results. sometimes it lets people down, because we take on petitions that we cannot resolve, and i was happy that one or two petitions could be returned to the irish parliament for consideration. however, it has done good work over this past legislature and will continue to do so in the next one.
a uachtaráin, i slí amháin is dócha gurb é an coiste achainíocha (peti) an coiste is tábhachtaí go háirithe do shaoránaigh a bhíonn i mbaol trasna na heorpa: daoine a bhíonn in éadóchas, tagann siad anseo agus faigheann siad dóchas; daoine nach féidir leo cothrom na féinne a fháil ina thír féin tagann siad anseo agus faigheann siad cothrom na féinne. tá moladh mór ag dul do na feisirí óna ballstáit éagsúla a éisteann le hachainíocha ó thíortha eile nach bhfuil aon bhaint acu leo. déanann siad an-jab agus is fiú iad a mholadh dá bharr. thug mé féin cúpla achainí anseo – ceann amháin a bhain le hionad salachair inis sionnach. bhí an ráta galair don ailse 35% níos airde ná an méan. tháinig siad anseo agus fuair siad cinneadh sásúil agus anois tá an t-ionad á ghlanadh agus cuirfear deireadh leis an salachar. dá bhrí sin, déanann sé obair an-mhaith agus dá bhrí sin is fiú é a leanúint amach agus gach tacaíocht a thabhairt dó.
mr[nbsp ]president, thank you for your sensitivity in dealing with this terrible incident. we wish maria well. briefly, i want to thank the rapporteur for this report and to concentrate on paragraphs[nbsp ]14 and 15 concerning producer organisations, because the feedback i get is that, while they are a good idea in theory, there are huge implementation problems in the member states. this needs to be addressed, because we promised producers that these provisions would be the answer to all their problems, and that is not the case. the second really important issue – and perhaps we could do with more debate on it – is the content of paragraph[nbsp ]16, which relates to unfair trading practices across the european union. i fully support the proposal here that we need a legislative framework for a code of conduct for operators in the food supply chain, and a national adjudicator. i think the experience of the united kingdom here is something which we all value, and which we should watch in terms of its effectiveness.
mr president, i too would like to wish maria well. thank you for the way you handled the situation. this is a very important topic, and unfortunately it could be described as the forgotten aspect of the agricultural industry. in terms of land, it is only 3[nbsp ]% of land usage, but it nonetheless accounts for 18[nbsp ]% of produce. furthermore, 70[nbsp ]% of the holders have less than five hectares. but where would we all be without fresh fruit and vegetables? the more local they are, the better. for that reason, we should be encouraging this sector as much as possible and dealing particularly with the issues that affect them greatly. my colleague ms mcguinness referred to the supply chain and unfair trading practices. that is one area. secondly, there is the area of workers, and particularly of ensuring that people have a career choice in this area, particularly by having third-level courses aimed at it and addressing its needs. finally, there is research and development; we need to put far more resources into it to make it a better area to work in and also to have better practices which can be more profitable for the producers.
mr president, i too welcome this report on money laundering today, as we know that money laundering is not a victimless crime. behind the money there are murky criminal underworlds of prostitution, drug trafficking, cigarette smuggling, fuel laundering and, indeed, welfare fraud. a recent report in ireland reported over 39[nbsp ]000 suspicious activities over a two-year period. yet during the same period there were just ten convictions. the view is that money laundering is a secondary offence to the actual crime and that criminals are caught or charged for the crime and not for the subsequent crime of laundering the cash. we need to change this mind-set. there are many positive aspects to this report; i particularly welcome the provision to ensure the traceability of payments with the public register on beneficial owners. this will ensure transparency by providing for full public access to the information on beneficial ownership. however, on the level of shareholding, which may constitute evidence, i would support the s&d amendment to lower the level from 25[nbsp ]% to 10[nbsp ]%. i am also concerned at the proposal to allow exemptions for certain aspects of the gambling industry. this report will need to be implemented in full.
in writing. - i support the rejection of the commission proposal on plant reproductive material as i would favour a more rounded proposal to the satisfaction of all stakeholders.
in writing. - the fine gael delegation in the european parliament voted in favour of amendment 151. while we favour all measures to improve transparency, it is important to note that the common law systems of ireland and the uk vary from most other member states with civil law jurisdictions. in ireland in particular, trusts are established for a number of reasons, including to protect vulnerable people. amendment 151 distinguishes between high and low-risk trusts when determining which information goes into the public domain.
a uachtaráin, cailltear 38[nbsp ]000 duine de bharr timpistí bóthair san aontas eorpach gach bliain. feictear domsa go bhfuil sé róthábhachtach minicíocht na ndíobhálacha marfacha agus tromchúiseacha a laghdú go mór agus feabhas a chur ar shábháilteacht ar bhóithre. caithfimid, mar eorpaigh, oibriú as lámha a chéile agus líon na mbásanna ar ár mbóithre a laghdú. táim sásta gur glacadh na leasuithe a bhí curtha síos agamsa maidir le gluaisrothair agus leantóirí. maidir leis na leantóirí, ní bheadh sé praiticiúil – in éirinn mar shampla – uimhirphláta difriúil a bheith ar leantóirí mar gheall ar an gcostas agus ar an oifigiúlachas atá ag baint lena leithéid. táim breá sásta go bhfuil an cinneadh ceart déanta againne. mar fhocal scoir, tá mé an-bhuíoch as an gcomhoibriú a fuair mé ón uasal kuhn agus as an sárobair atá déanta aige maidir leis an tuarascáil seo.
a uachtaráin, vótáil mé ar son na tuarascála seo a bhaineann le cáipéisí cláraithe d’fheithiclí. measaim go bhfuil cothromaíocht bainte amach againne idir sábháilteacht ar bhóithre, an comhshaol agus an t-oifigiúlachas. tá nasc láidir idir an tuarascáil seo agus tuarascáil kuhn. leis an méadú ar úsáideoirí bóthair trasteorann, rud a fháiltím roimhe mar shiombail den lánpháirtiú san aontas a bheith ag obair, caithfimid a chinntiú go bhfuil caighdeánú ann sa chaoi a n-eisímid cáipéisí cláraithe d’fheithiclí. tá ról lárnach ag an tuarascáil seo maidir le sábháilteacht ar bhóithre. amach anseo, beidh bunachar sonraí leictreonach againn, agus cuireann mé fáilte roimhe sin.
a uachtaráin, vótáil mé ar son na tuarascála seo maidir le feithiclí tráchtála. feictear domsa go bhfuil an tuarascáil seo go maith ó thaobh an chomhshaoil de, ó thaobh an mhargaidh inmheánaigh de agus ó thaobh an mhargaidh trasteorann de. tá súil agam go gcuideoidh sé seo le machaire réidh a chur i bhfeidhm. is céim phraiticiúil é chun tacaíocht a thabhairt do na fiontair bheaga agus mheánmhéide. caithfimid, mar eorpaigh, oibriú as lámha a chéile agus líon na mbásanna ar ár mbóithre a laghdú. táimid ag iarraidh úsáideoirí bóthair a chosaint, ach an toil pholaitiúil a bheith ann – agus is í sin an bhuncheist. táimse go láidir den tuairim go bhfuil an toil sin ann. léiríonn an tuarascáil seo, mar shampla, go bhfuilimid in ann feabhas a chur ar shábháilteacht ar ár mbóithre. tá sé sin thar a bheith tábhachtach ar fad.
in writing. - i supported the resolution on the european investment bank activities in 2012. the eib is a key player in supporting the european economy, promoting sustainable growth and employment. ireland’s engagement with the eib has been greatly enhanced over the past three years and the eib is making a very positive contribution towards ireland’s economic recovery including by supporting much-needed developments in dublin such as the extension of the city’s tram system, the construction and refurbishment of primary and secondary schools across the city, the extension of ucd and the construction of a new integrated campus for the dublin institute of technology at grangegorman in the north inner city. i welcome the call in this resolution urging the eib to update its climate change strategy by the end of 2015 and recalling its commitment to end the public funding of fossil fuel projects and to shift to energy efficiency and renewable energy projects.
in writing. - because of the principle of subsidiarity, we felt compelled to abstain on the final vote of this report due to the passing of a recital which referred to sexual and reproductive health and rights as human rights. the definitions of sexual and reproductive health and rights were set out in the 1994 cairo declaration and advocate pro-abortion policies. owing to the principle of subsidiarity, the european union does not possess competence with regard to the promotion of policies on abortion in member states. members states are best placed to decide on such issues. we regret that we could not support the report due to the unnecessary inclusion of a reference to sexual and reproductive health and rights. this was, overall, a good report with many good recommendations. fianna fáil is committed to equality between women and men and, therefore, we urge the commission and the member states to take account of the many good recommendations in this report to tackle the problem of discrimination against women.
in writing. - i do support gender quotas and i have seen similar programmes work to great effect in other european countries, so of course i am disappointed that this equality report was rejected. this year, women in europe will work 59 days for free – that is women putting in two months of additional work for the same money. ireland has the misfortune of being one of the countries, along with hungary, portugal, estonia, bulgaria and spain, in which the gender pay gap has actually increased in recent years. we know that by being female you will face far more challenges in the workplace – so we need to support women to realise all of their potential. it is going to be a busy year, especially with the positions of the top four eu posts up for grabs. it is vital that at least one of these high-profile posts is filled by a female candidate. it is the only way that we can show that we as an institution still believe in gender equality!
in writing. - i am bitterly disappointed that the european parliament did not adopt a resolution on gender equality across the eu in 2012. it is deeply regrettable that the members of the european parliament narrowly voted to reject a report which sought to address the core challenges faced by millions of women across europe each day, against the backdrop of the economic and social crisis. these crises, and their consequences, call for more gender equality, not less. deep-rooted inequalities such as the gender pay gap or violence against women need to be addressed at european level through policies that seek to better reconcile work and family life, that give women the chance to enter or return to the labour market and that promote equal pay. by rejecting this report, the european parliament risks sending the signal that europe is turning away from women.
in writing. - i abstained on the zuber report and the alternative motion for resolution (amendment[nbsp ]1) on the grounds of subsidiarity. these reports include references, inter alia, to provisions which are for member states to decide.
a uachtaráin, d’fhreastail mé aréir ar an díospóireacht faoin tuarascáil seo agus dar ndóigh bhí sé suimiúil. bhí mé i bhfabhar na tuarascála agus vótáil mé ar son na tuarascála. chuir sé saghas ionadh orm nár glacadh leis beagnach d’aon ghuth: bhí 482 i bhfabhar as 662 a vótáil. ach is dócha go mbíonn a thuairim féin ag gach uile dhuine. ag an am céanna, caithfear a rá go bhfuil an t-uafás oibre déanta ag an gcoiste seo. tháinig 10[nbsp ]000 achainí os a gcomhair, glacadh le 60% díobh – agus bhí orthu éisteacht leo siúd go léir. tá moladh mór ag dul do na feisirí ó thíortha eile a éisteann leis na hachainithe a thagann ó thíortha éagsúla. tugann sé seo an-mhuinín don phobal; sin an fáth go bhfuil siad ag teacht anseo. mé féin, thug mé cúpla achainíoch anseo agus bhí áthas orthu gur tháinig siad agus fuair siad cothrom na féinne nach raibh ar fáil acu ina dtír féin.
a uachtaráin, bhí áthas orm tacaíocht a thabhairt don tuarascáil seo. dar ndóigh nuair a bhímid ag caint faoin tionscal talmhaíochta, is minic a dhéanaimid dearmad ar thionscal na gairneoireachta. ag an am céanna, tá sé an-tábhachtach. mar a dúradh, úsáideann siad 3% den talamh ach cuireann siad 18% de tháirgí ar fáil, agus a lán díobh i bhfeirmeacha an-bheag – 70% níos lú ná 5 heicteár. tá sé an-tábhachtach go mbeadh glasraí úra agus torthaí ar fáil againn go háitiúil, agus caithfimid é sin a chur chun cinn. tá cúpla fadhb mhór acu agus ba chóir dúinn cabhrú leo, go háirithe maidir le taighde – taighde a bhaineann le ceimiceáin agus leis an nuáil a chothú. tá sé tábhachtach freisin an ghairm a chothú. ba cheart go gcuirfeadh muid cúrsaí ar fáil ag an tríú leibhéal chun go rachadh daoine isteach sa ghairm seo. mar phointe deireanach, caithfimid dul i ngleic leis na miondíoltóirí. tá an iomarca cumhachta ag cuid díobh, go háirithe na cinn ollmhóra.
in writing. - i was unable to support the parliament’s resolution on the future of europe’s horticulture sector – strategies for growth. the horticulture sector accounts for almost one fifth of europe’s agricultural production and is worth over eur[nbsp ]50 billion annually. the horticulture sector is particularly important in north county dublin in terms of economic activity and employment. i regret that the resolution retained articles promoting genetic modification as well as questioning the ban on neonicotinoid insecticides in this sector. for these reasons i was unable to support this particular resolution, though i do acknowledge that it makes a number of other positive recommendations, particularly in relation to promoting employment in this sector.
in writing. - i support this report as it is a balanced text on the situation of horticulture in the eu. i abstained in the vote on paragraph 25 as the issue of neonicotinoids and their effects on bee populations requires further attention.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy. - madam president, i have one minute to summarise two year’s work, so let us not waste time. i will make three positive points and express three reservations. the point that we want one set of rules – a regulation – across the entire european union makes absolute sense. any dilution of that would not make sense in an online world that knows no borders. i very much welcome the protection of children in the online world, through permission from their parents or guardians for the processing of their data. the trust of citizens would be increased by explicit consent and by strengthening the right to be forgotten and, as the commissioner said, the one-stop-shop would certainly be good for business across europe. my reservations: one, smes; two, health research; and three, press freedom. i hope that we can deal with those three issues in a more practical manner, because there is no point talking about the importance of smes if we have more regulation, no point talking about the importance of health research if we make it more difficult for them to do that, and also no point talking about press freedom if we inhibit them as well.
vice-president of the commission. - madam president, our work to restore trust and champion fundamental rights can bring enormous benefits to our citizens and our businesses alike. i think we have underlined this during the whole afternoon, not only in this debate but also in the former debate on data protection. in my opening remarks i referred to my proposed data protection compact for europe. i now wish to conclude by reiterating the main principles underpinning the compact: the need to adopt the data protection reform in all its parts because the regulation, but also the directive on law enforcement, are both very important. the directive, by the way, would cover the field we were discussing in the second debate just now. law enforcement authorities also need to fall under basic rules of data protection, and those basic rules of data protection are not a figment of the imagination of some politicians. they are inscribed in the treaties of the european union, so they are fundamental rights at all levels of policymaking. we need to engage in a public debate on civil liberties to ensure that data collection is targeted, limited, and proportionate; that national security justifications are invoked sparingly; that judicial oversight is key and that data protection rules should transcend nationality and geography. madam president, we are not far from sharing the same objectives, and i believe that we can work together to make digital self-determination a reality in our policymaking, our daily lives and our relationship with our global partners. that is the way to promote our digital europe. it is also the way to promote the rights of our citizens. these are a must, an obligation, and that is what all politicians – whatever their party – should strive for.
president-in-office of the council. - madam president, the chair who was presiding over this meeting before you drew my attention to a possible lapsus linguae, namely that i might have said ‘on the other side of the channel’ instead of ‘on the other side of the atlantic’. i checked my written notes and i had written that ‘we are listening with interest to the democratic debate that is going on on the other side of the atlantic’. perhaps the record will show that i made a lapsus linguae, for which i apologise. in any case, i think that nobody should try to make any political or psychoanalytical misinterpretation of such a lapse. i am fully aware of the political consequences of being on the other side of the atlantic or being on the other side of the channel. now, on what was a very interesting debate: it was said that the council is silent and indifferent. i just want to remind you once again that the council, the member states and the commission have – together with the united states – set up a us ad hoc working group on data protection, which was tasked to look into the legal framework for the us surveillance activities impacting on persons resident in the eu. the eu chairs of this ad hoc working group issued their report on 27[nbsp ]november[nbsp ]2013. more generally, i think it is in the interest of both sides of the atlantic to clarify this issue. if citizens are concerned about the processing of their data by private companies or public authorities, this might affect their trust in the digital economy – with potential negative consequences on growth. this is also true for us companies. indeed, trust is key to the secure and efficient functioning of the digital economy. this reinforces the point that i made earlier, namely that the only way to address this important issue raised by the debate today is by engaging in a constructive and rigorous dialogue with the united states. the eu and the us cherish a strategic partnership based on shared values, as well as close and wide-ranging cooperation in all possible fields. mutual trust can only better serve this valuable partnership.
madam president, i have two points of order. one is in relation to the right of the vice-president to call whom he likes for the catch-the-eye. i accept that completely, but i would have to question the fairness of the vice-president saying that he is going to take five people – one from each political group – when the political groups vary enormously in size, with some four or five times bigger than the others. secondly, i would also have to question the use – or perhaps the abuse – of the blue card. some of the supposed questions are not questions at all, but statements. furthermore, they go way beyond the 30-second limit. thirdly, some people are allowed in again and again, and they speak two, three or four times in a single debate. this means that people who sit here all the time wanting to contribute at the end and during the catch-the-eye have to be cut out. i just wanted to make those two points. thank you very much for your indulgence. (applause)
in writing. – recommendations to boost eu citizens’ privacy and establishment of european whistle-blower protection: whilst the 4th round of ttip talks are underway this week, several aspects need to be examined carefully before talks conclude. most important among these is that ttip should not compromise our citizens’ personal data. the data protection packages voted through today aim to strengthen the eu’s current existing data protection laws, particularly in light of the recent nsa and wikileaks revelations. i voted in favour of the report and welcome novel aspects such as the considerations regarding granting whistle-blowers international protection from prosecution and europe being able to develop its own it clouds, thereby enhancing the current levels of personal data protection. additionally, i welcome the proposal that member states check their own secret services to ensure that they are subject to parliamentary and judicial oversight and public scrutiny and that they comply with fundamental rights obligations.
blue-card question. – mr farage, i hope you will answer my question, please. you talk about excitement in politics and a leaden debate, but with the greatest of respect, i do not want excitement in politics; i want people who work. will you please commit to staying in this chamber and listening with respect to the responses of those who will be here? your practice in the past has been to walk out. and could i add that you say that the enthusiasm for the eu is dimming. i think that enthusiasm for ukip is dimming.
mr president, i think it is important that we reflect on the fact that while we look inwards at the problems in the european union, the president of the council has rightly alluded to the situation in ukraine, which should make us look outwards as well. i just want to make some brief comments about the current situation. there is no one in this house – certainly no one on our side – who would say that all is rosy. for example, in ireland we know that many people have not seen the improvements in their family situations that we would like them to see, but we have got to admit that stability has been restored and that growth is there. it is far too modest, and we need to stimulate it. i would support mr van nistelrooij’s comments that we need to bring manufacturing into the european union so that we can create sustainable jobs. lastly, what we had in ireland in the celtic tiger era was unsustainable. we have had to fix it. people have suffered, but let us give them hope.
mr president, reality is turned on its head by all the contending imperialist forces active in ukraine. so john kerry can proclaim, without irony, that you just do not invade another country on a completely trumped-up pretext. tell that to the people of iraq or afghanistan. the eu, which oversees brutal violence against asylum seekers and protestors, becomes a proponent of a so-called democratic revolution, and the homophobic and anti-worker putin is transformed into an aggressive defender of the rights of minorities. look at the character of the new government promoted by the european establishment as a paragon of democracy. there are seven ministers with links to the extreme right, and the interim president has already accepted more imf austerity measures. it is the oligarchs who still rule ukraine. working-class and poor people across ukraine need to build their own political force. us, nato, eu: hands off ukraine. russian troops out of ukraine for workers’ rule, not oligarch rule with full… (the president cut off the speaker.)
in writing. - ireland takes part in the eu common foreign and security policy (cfsp) in accordance with the eu treaties, including article[nbsp ]42(2) which stipulates that eu policy in the cfsp arena shall not prejudice the specific character of the security and defence policy of certain member states (i.e. irish neutrality), and in accordance with ireland’s ‘triple-lock’ under which members of the irish defence forces participate in international missions upon approval by the irish government, approval by the irish parliament and under a un mandate.
in writing. - i voted for this report because i believe gastronomy plays a central role in the european economy. it is particularly important for our tourism industry. tourists come to europe to sample our heritage, and that includes our national dishes. students and school children should dedicate the necessary time to learning the social, cultural and historical aspects of their own country’s gastronomic heritage including, notably, diet, which is becoming extremely important in modern society. i believe education on nutritional aspects of food and gastronomy to be extremely important and these should be part of the curriculum. the influence of the media regarding alcohol, drug and tobacco consumption and healthy lifestyles, especially on young people, needs to be highlighted, and we need to see education and awareness-raising in schools and stricter control of advertising content. kids in school need to be educated about the benefits of sport and exercise in order to ensure the next generation is healthy, and in order to combat obesity.
in writing. - i voted in favour of these new rules on data protection. privacy is a human right enshrined in article[nbsp ]8 of the european charter of fundamental rights. reform of the personal data protection rules is necessary to ensure that privacy rights are protected by robust rules which meet the realities of this digital age. i welcome this reportʼs achievement of a balanced approach. rather than creating unnecessary red tape, a compromise was reached allowing legitimate use of data for innovation and research while protecting privacy rights through tough sanctions against rule breakers. the sanctions proposed by parliament are tougher, and therefore act as a better deterrent, than those favoured by the commission. meps approved fines of up to eur[nbsp ]100 million or 5[nbsp ]% of annual worldwide turnover (whichever is greater). it is fitting that, on the same day as this house votes on a resolution on the impact on eu citizensʼ rights of surveillance conducted by a foreign intelligence service, meps altered the proposed rules to ensure that firms disclosing an eu citizenʼs personal data to a third country must first receive the consent of the relevant national data protection authority in the eu.
in writing. - i welcome the adoption of parliament’s resolution on a new data protection regulation, to replace the existing data protection directive adopted nearly 20 years ago. the new regulation should introduce the obligation to obtain the consent of citizens before their data can be processed as well as stricter rules for data exchange with third countries. companies that violate these rules could face penalties of up to 5[nbsp ]% of their global sales. i would now urge member states’ governments to work with parliament so that we can reach final agreement on this draft regulation, in line with the position set out by this parliament.
in writing. - i support this report as it raises awareness of children caught up in conflict, where they are more susceptible to both sexual and physical violence.
in writing. - i support parliament’s resolution on the data protection directive setting out rules to be followed by law-enforcement authorities and governing cross-border data processing in police and judicial cooperation. this would replace the existing 2008 framework agreement that is not working with a binding directive that ensures enforceable rights and a much higher level of data protection, while at the same time guaranteeing the effective operation of legitimate law enforcement activities. i would now urge member states’ governments to reach agreement on this proposal within the council so that an overall agreement can be reached with parliament, along the lines set out in parliament’s resolution. i would also urge the irish government to give serious consideration to opting in to this proposed directive.
in writing. - i backed the proposals in this report which would speed up the necessary reform of europeʼs air traffic control services. we need to prepare quickly for the anticipated growth in air traffic across the european union. by pushing ahead with implementation of the single european sky, we can share airspace better, reduce emissions and make our airlines more competitive. the implementation of the single european sky initiative has brought some results thus far, such as a halt to the increase in air traffic management costs, a reduction in air traffic delays and the maintenance of safety levels. however, this process has been quite slow. the disruption to air travel caused by the eruption in iceland in 2010 highlights the need to speed up implementation of the single european sky in order to ensure that there is a coordinated response to such unexpected occurrences.
in writing. - i support parliament’s first reading position on the single european sky. over six million commercial flights fly over eu airspace each year and europe’s airspace is reaching its maximum capacity. up to 80[nbsp ]% of flight delays are due to insufficient capacity of traffic control systems or problems at airports due to airline operations. planes are sometimes kept in the air due to lack of coordination. this can disrupt air traffic, inconvenience passengers, increase fuel consumption and increase co2 emissions. we have removed ground borders between eu countries but we maintain 28 airspaces. we need to reorganise europe’s airspace in a more efficient way for environmental, economic and safety reasons. i particularly welcome the fact that parliament has rejected the commission’s plans to separate and liberalise support services such as meteorology from the core services. the social and organisational cost of such a move would be unpredictable and the benefits questionable. i also welcome the fact that the s&d group has succeeded in including the social dimension by ensuring that the ses regulation creates new, much needed indicators covering social and staffing conditions.
in writing. - i welcome this first revision in 24 years of the eu rules on package travel which protect the rights of holidaymakers. travellers will have improved compensation entitlements, including compensation for holidays which were ruined by construction noise at the hotel. there will be increased flexibility when it comes to cancelling trips and new safeguards to protect consumers if the travel agency goes bankrupt before or during the holiday. those who book online will also be covered and the new rules cover the online booking of flights, hotels and car hire through links on airlineʼs websites.
in writing. - holidaymakers should be guaranteed help getting home if their travel agency goes bust while they are abroad. additionally, travel organisers should be obliged to offer travellers reimbursement if they raise the price or change the flight times significantly after a sale is concluded. i voted in favour of this report as the proposed new legislation offers comprehensive protection to consumers booking pre-arranged package holidays which involve combinations of flights, hotels and car rentals. it is a definite win for consumers and one which i wholly support.
in writing. - i support parliament’s first reading position on the proposed package travel directive. tourism plays a central role in the irish and european economies, accounting for 10[nbsp ]% of eu gdp and employing 1.8[nbsp ]million people, or almost one in twenty workers. the way people arrange their holidays and travel plans has changed enormously since the first package travel directive was adopted in 1990. europe’s consumer protection laws need to reflect this reality. we need to put in place clear rules regarding liability, price changes and the right to compensation for travel plans composed and booked online. i would urge member states’ governments to now work with meps so that we can reach agreement on this proposal.
in writing. - i welcome parliament’s approval of the compromise regulation reached with the council last december to phase down the use of fluorinated greenhouse gases (f-gases). f-gases are used in a variety of refrigeration and air conditioning equipment, in insulation foams, electrical equipment, aerosol sprays and solvents, and in fire-protection systems and have a global warming potential up to 23[nbsp ]000 times more potent than carbon dioxide and can remain in the atmosphere for thousands of years. the progressive phasing out of f-gases will not only reduce greenhouse gas emissions but also support the market deployment of sustainable alternatives as well as the 400 or so smaller companies that produce them. all member states must now ensure the correct implementation of this new regulation so as to avoid the problems that plagued the previous regulation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report as it will provide for the reduction of fluorinated greenhouse gas emissions by two-thirds of todayʼs levels by 2030.
mr president, i supported this proposal on the free movement of workers, which is of course the cornerstone of the common or internal market, ensuring the equal treatment of non-national workers and national workers with regard to employment, remuneration and other conditions of employment. however, having something on the statue book and ensuring its full implementation are two entirely different things, and that is why the commission came forward with this enforcement directive. coming from a country with a long history of workers either choosing to leave or having to leave in order to gain employment – and also, in the early part of this century, a country which welcomed many immigrants from other member states – i certainly – and we certainly – know the need for ensuring the proper enforcement of eu legislation on equal treatment. this applies both to workers who go abroad seeking to find employment – they often find themselves in a vulnerable position – and, from a national perspective, to workers at home, because that prevents social dumping and a race to the bottom.
mr president, i voted against this legislation, as i believe it is poor legislation. there are some improvements, but any legislation on the assessment of the effects of certain public and private projects on the environment that does not require a mandatory environmental impact assessment on hydraulic fracturing or fracking is, in my opinion, poor european legislation. this parliament here voted in favour of mandatory environmental impact assessment for fracking. the reason this is needed is because we do not have adequate legislation to cover this new technology. the commission itself said this in its analysis over two years ago. therefore, a mandatory environmental impact assessment would at least have plugged some of the gaps in european legislation until the commission came forward with their proposals. this is not about whether member states frack or not. that is a national competence and is their own decision. it is about whether, at european level, we have proper legislation in place to protect the environment. this piece of legislation flunks that test and is a poor outcome for those who want to protect the environment.
in writing. - the eia directive is one of the major instruments for environment and health protection. while i am naturally very disappointed that a mandatory eia for fracking was not included in the compromise text, i believe that the improvements to the directive concern much more than shale gas. the improvements to the directive will make eia more rigorous for all projects to which it applies, including shale gas. these improvements include the independence of experts and avoidance of conflicts of interest; the fact that additional environmental factors must be taken into account such as biodiversity and climate change; an increase in better information and the participation of the public. all of these are crucial to ensuring a strong eu environmental law policy. it is important we think about the overall impact a strong and effective eia will have on the environment and it would be a shame to forego this opportunity. that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the revised environmental impact assessment directive. this agreement does not go as far as i would have liked in all areas but i do see it as a step forward compared to the existing eia directive. i acknowledge that the new legislation does not remove the threshold for mandatory eias of shale gas projects but that other measures agreed, such as the ban on developers submitting smaller shale gas projects in the same area with the intention of remaining below the threshold and thereby avoiding an eia, will have the effect of making an eia on shale gas projects de facto mandatory. i note that i also welcome the fact that the new directive places greater emphasis on additional environmental factors such as climate change, biodiversity and the impact on water, as well as on ensuring better information and public participation. i note that the revised directive has been warmly welcomed by the european environmental bureau and i am happy to support it.
in writing. - the fine gael delegation in parliament voted against this report because it does not provide for mandatory environmental impact assessments for shale gas exploration, evaluation and extraction. we understand that in many other respects the report is forward-looking and positive, but we consider that the absence of a mandatory eia for shale gas weakens the text.
mr president, there are many reasons to admire the courage and heroism of edward snowden. he gave us yet another reason with his testimony to the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, during which he very bluntly, clearly and accurately stated that – despite extraordinary political pressure to do so – no western government has been able to present evidence that such programmes are necessary. i will be equally blunt: instead of some general comments of indignation by eu leaders and heads of state, there must be action. shut down the mass surveillance programmes. shut them down not only in the us, but in the eu as well. stop the eu-us free trade agreement negotiations, which, if concluded, would strike another blow to data protection rules. it is scandalous that this parliament voted against an amendment to call on member states to grant refugee status to edward snowden. he is seeking asylum in the eu. he has stated that the us will not allow eu political partners to offer political asylum to him. unfortunately, parliament fell for that blackmail. pressure should be put on the member states, including the irish government, to accept him.
in writing. - i support parliament’s resolution on the outcome of our inquiry into mass surveillance by the usa nsa and by some member states’ intelligence services. parliament is absolutely correct to condemn these mass surveillance programmes as a breach of fundamental rights, and to call on eu leaders to suspend and reform existing eu-us agreements including the swift bank data transfer agreement and the safe harbour data privacy agreement, to exclude data protection from any proposed eu-us trade agreement, and to conclude negotiations with the us on introducing judicial redress for eu citizens facing privacy violations. the edward snowdon revelations came at a critical time as the eu had already begun a fundamental reassessment of the outdated data protection, internet and privacy laws. eu citizens need to have control of their personal data, including the right to have their details removed on request. i particularly welcome the recommendation for a european bill of rights, as well as increased international protection for journalists and whistle-blowers, the strengthening of cloud computing in the eu, and for increased it security and encryption standards. parliament has stood up for citizens’ rights, democracy and the rule of law with this resolution.
mr president, last june, 14-year-old berkin elvan went out to buy bread for his mother. he never came home. he was shot in the head with a tear gas canister by police and he fell into a coma. yesterday he became the eighth fatality of police brutality at the time of the gezi park protests, which i personally witnessed. impunity still prevails for those who planned and executed that violence. now on the streets of istanbul, in ankara, in izmir, in bursa, in mersin and across turkey, the cry of hundreds of thousands rings out: berkin elvan is immortal! the state has responded with the same repression again. at the same time a bitter power struggle between erdoğan and gül continues, with neither offering any solution to the working class, the young or kurdish people. with the ruling class divided, now is the moment to redevelop a movement from below of workers, of the poor and of young people to force erdoğan out. a genuinely socialist alternative must be built to the forces of reaction, of oppression and big business. berkin elvan ölümsüzdür!
vice-president of the commission. - madam president, our debate today is an important input to the discussion about the workings and future of the troika. i want to thank all the rapporteurs. i welcome the work of both committees and i hope, too, that you have found our contributions to the reports useful. in the reports there is much common ground and a balanced recognition of achievements and challenges. i know these reports have been intensively debated in the committees. it is good that they recognise that, faced with a sudden – indeed an existential – crisis, decisions had to be taken in extreme circumstances and necessarily involved difficult choices. we agree that the macroeconomic imbalances which made these decisions necessary had built up in the decade before the crisis in the countries facing this situation. when the present commission took office – and i started as the commissioner responsible for economic and monetary affairs more than four years ago – the debt crisis had just hit europe, and the greek economy especially was in free-fall. the risks suddenly burst and were aggravated, and extreme pressure was created to bring the economies concerned back onto a credible path – without any functioning eurozone mechanisms in existence to do this necessary job. let us not forget that the aim of the economic adjustment programmes was to prevent these countries defaulting on their social and economic obligations, which of course include the welfare benefits of their citizens and the wages of their public employees. in other words, the programmes did not mark the beginning of the crises, but rather the start of their resolution. in combating the crisis, europe’s strategy has been based on extending solidarity in return for solidity. it is only fair that the reports recognise the emergency in which europe suddenly had to create, from scratch, the stability mechanisms through which solidarity could be extended. those mechanisms reflect the financial and political realities: the finance ministers of the other euro area member states have had to assume responsibility for granting financial assistance before their own parliaments, in the name of legitimacy and democratic accountability. the troika was created to bring together strong economic-policy expertise and multiple sources of funding in order to prevent an economic meltdown in europe. the institutions each have their own independence and their own mandate, which, of course, we have to respect. their role has been legally codified in the treaty establishing the european stability mechanism (esm). parliament and the council have further codified the commission’s role in the two-pack legislation, which lays down the rules on transparency and accountability which apply to the commission in its role as a member of the troika. here in plenary, as well as in the committees, we have regularly debated the situation in programme countries. yes, it has been a difficult journey, and the painful process of assessment is behind in many countries, but the economic turnaround is now tangible and visible. the european economy did not collapse, nor did the euro break up. the economic recovery is now gaining ground and firming up. growth has resumed in ireland and portugal. unemployment has started to decrease. ireland successfully completed its programme in december, as planned. spain exited its own programme in january. for portugal, the economic outlook has just been revised upwards, and the country remains on track to exit its programme successfully in may. we all know about the difficulties of getting the greek programme on track, especially, in the first years, because of the lack of national unity and the strong vested interests in the country, but there are now realistic signs of the greek economy recovering. the current account is in surplus for the first time in decades, and there is also an apparent primary surplus in the country’s public finances for last year. it is self-evident that the troika is a complex arrangement, which carries out its tasks within the specific mandate it has been given by the esm treaty and the member states – always, of course, in cooperation with the government or parliamentary authorities, stakeholders and social partners of the countries which faced possible default and which, in the first place, themselves requested financial assistance. looking ahead, your reports raise issues about the future governance of financial assistance mechanisms such as a european monetary fund, and these can be pursued in the wider institutional discussions on deepening the economic and monetary union to become a genuine stability union, possibly with elements of a fiscal union. in our view, this should be done in line with and on the basis of the community method. we are all aware that, realistically, a deeper fiscal union will not be achieved overnight. for the commission, the guiding principle is that stronger solidarity can be pursued only in return for stronger responsibility, which obviously raises issues concerning sovereignty. such a deepening can thus occur only in the context of a profoundly democratic process. the european parliament is at the core of this important democratic debate. i am looking forward to continuing to participate in it.
member of the commission. - madam president, the commission has analysed employment and social developments in programme countries in a number of its publications and in the joint employment report, as well as in regular reports on the implementation of the adjustment programmes following each review. we are therefore well aware that, since the outbreak of the economic crisis, employment and social divergences between member states and social disparities within individual countries have increased dramatically. the four euro area programme countries are among the hardest hit. the social impact of policies has always been an important concern in policy design in the programme countries, as is reflected in the relevant memorandums of understanding. from the commission’s point of view, it is essential that the adjustment burden is shared in the most equitable way possible, and the commission will continue to work with the member states concerned to that end. at the same time, it is for democratically-elected national governments to make the specific choices necessary to help correct the accumulated imbalances, in line with programme targets. for instance, tax reforms can be designed in a progressive or a regressive way, and the commission has shown on various occasions that these choices have differed across the programme countries. let me also stress here that the commission considers social dialogue to be an important part of the solution to the crisis in the euro area programme countries. it is therefore working with the social partners, governments and the international labour organisation to strengthen social dialogue and trust between the partners. the 2013 industrial relations in europe report included a specific analysis of social-dialogue developments in the programme countries. the commission is also committed to the treaty objectives of balanced economic growth, and it recognises the crucial importance of reinforcing socio-economic convergence within the euro area. this was called for in the ‘blueprint for a deep and genuine economic and monetary union (emu)’ and, more recently, in the communication on the social dimension of the emu. therefore, we continue to promote the completion of the emu, based on further economic, fiscal and political integration, with strong attention to the employment and social dimension. as commissioner responsible for employment and social affairs, i am particularly concerned about the economic and social hardship felt by the programme countries four years after the first bail-out. i am equally concerned about the employment and social prospects in these countries in the years ahead, given the still very low level of economic growth in europe as a whole. we have made some progress in integrating the social dimension into the economic governance of the emu and have strengthened european instruments for macroeconomic stabilisation, social investment and solidarity between countries and social groups. to overcome the severe social consequences of the ongoing economic crisis effectively, however, and to restore convergence in employment and social outcomes within the eurozone, the eu still needs to do much more – and needs to act in a united way. in this continued effort, we need to build on the ‘blueprint for a deep and genuine emu’. we need to find solutions commensurate with the challenges on the ground, so that every member state of the emu can build a viable economic and social future. if we do not manage to restore economic growth in the programme countries, so that their public and private sectors can grow out of past debts, and if we do not manage to restore social progress, then the sustainability of the emu will be threatened. today, therefore, the main danger facing the programme countries – and the emu and eu as a whole – is not ‘too much europe’ but too little integration. we need more economic, political and fiscal integration in order to complete the emu and achieve better economic and social outcomes for all member states.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, i want to thank the rapporteurs for their diligent work on these excellent reports. ireland may have exited the troika programme but the impact of the previous irish government’s mishandling of our economy, coupled with the troika’s austerity programmes, continues to be felt post-bail-out. indeed, for those who have become long-term unemployed and for families that have been divided by emigration, the social and economic cost will be felt for years to come. ireland has lost a quarter of its 20-29[nbsp ]year-olds since 2009. these reports confirm that the troika gave no consideration to the social impact of the policies in ireland, greece, portugal or cyprus. indeed, the irish government that took office in 2011 came up against enormous resistance from the troika in trying to maintain a threshold of decency in social services and to reverse the cut in the minimum wage. commissioner rehn, i say to you that the imf now admits that the troika used wrong multipliers and underestimated the negative impact of its measures. the decision by the troika not to allow the government, when it came into office in 2011, to implement burden-sharing with senior unguaranteed bond-holders left ireland with an unsustainable debt: a debt-to-gdp ratio of 120[nbsp ]%. i very much welcome the fact that these reports took some of my amendments on board. it is important to recognise that the private losses of irish banks were unfairly placed as a burden on the shoulders of irish taxpayers in order to minimise the risk of contagion across the euro area as a whole. there is a call here for the full implementation of the june[nbsp ]2012 commitment to break the vicious circle between bank debt and sovereign debt. most importantly, the european council is urged to make good on its commitment of june[nbsp ]2012 to deal with ireland’s bank debt burden.
madam president, i am looking at the troika’s activities from a social and employment perspective, and i want to ask the commission: did you take article[nbsp ]9 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union – the social clause which guarantees social protection and which fights against social exclusion – as a core determinant in the policies you have pursued, or did you focus almost exclusively on the economic situation without trying to find a balance between the social and the economic? i believe the commission’s approach was that certain member states had sinned grievously and must pay the price. they must do penance. commissioner rehn, you reiterated your mantra here today: macroeconomic imbalances had built up in those countries in the decades before the crisis. commissioner, my own country, ireland, never broke the stability and growth pact from 2000 until the crisis. our debt-to-gdp ratio was 30[nbsp ]%; now it is 120[nbsp ]% and rising: deficits falling and debt rising. yes, we had lax regulation in ireland and, yes, in ireland the tax base was much too narrow and there was a property bubble but, equally, when money flowed from the periphery, fuelled by low interest rates to suit some economies and not others, there was lax regulation at eu level. there were irresponsible lenders as well as irresponsible borrowers, and when we discovered that the euro was more of a straitjacket than a security net, we had to pay unsecured bondholders under threat from the ecb, and the troika decided to charge us 5.8[nbsp ]% interest on the money we borrowed to help prevent contagion in the eu banking system. commissioner, that was our first message from the troika, and i wonder: if you had to do it again, would you charge us the same interest rate? in all of this i am pro-european, but we need recognition of the fact that our common currency was not fit for purpose and contributed to the crisis, and also of the fact that we are not moving quickly enough to build the necessary infrastructure to sustain the currency. we need to refocus on eu[nbsp ]2020: those goals are disappearing over the horizon. and finally, we need to question the procyclical nature of policy, and to treat excessive surpluses with the same urgency as we treat excessive deficits.
madam president, the real purpose of these reports was made clear in emer costello’s speech earlier. what we have here is an act of misdirection by the troika inside this parliament – the epp, the social democrats and the liberals – to absolve themselves of all responsibility. her speech could be summed up with the phrase: the troika told us to do it. is that really the best excuse that the labour party and the others here can come up with? did the dog also eat your election manifestos? did the labour party have nothing to do with the cuts to health, education and social welfare? did they have nothing to do with the household tax, the property tax, the water tax? in an irish context these reports means fianna fáil, the greens, fine gael and labour being able to wash their hands and say – and i quote from the report – ‘the bail-in of senior bondholders was not an option available to the irish authorities’. the only problem is, it is just not true. it was a political choice, made by the troika, yes, but also made by the establishment parties across europe, to burn irish working-class people instead of hitting the bondholders and speculators. these reports accept the very same logic. it is the same logic of bono, patronisingly telling us that the irish people bailed out the irish people. no, mr hewson. on planet earth the irish people, with the treacherous connivance of two governments, were bullied, threatened and coerced in order to bail out billionaire bankers and bondholders by the very people he described as heroes. confronted by the humanitarian catastrophe created by the troika policies, we need more than criticisms of the legal basis of the troika. we need a rejection of authoritarian neo-liberalism. we need to refuse to pay the debt that is not our debt. we need public investment to create jobs and we need to build a europe for the millions, not the millionaires. (applause)
madam president, anger, annoyance and frustration summarise the experience of the irish people with the troika. the lack of transparency and the imposition of several cuts to vital services affecting the most vulnerable, including the elderly, the sick and the young, have left a long-lasting mark on the fabric of irish society. there is a deep responsibility at eu level to break the vicious circle between bank and sovereign debt. i am pleased that the draft report specifically refers to the june[nbsp ]2012 commitment by eu leaders as a result of an amendment tabled by me and my fianna fáil colleagues. the amendment also calls on eu leaders to substantially alleviate ireland’s burden of bank debt. the delay in the implementation of this specific commitment by eu leaders is simply unacceptable. it is not sufficient to talk about it and make a commitment; there has to be a follow-through. eu leaders cannot make such important political commitments and then unduly delay implementing them. in conclusion, i hope that the adoption of this report will help the irish government to put pressure on the union and on the commission to expedite a solution to this critically important economic matter.
mr president, i come from ireland, the first country to have a visit from the troika, and i must say that when i heard that the troika was coming i was actually happy because i said: number one, we will get the emergency finance that we need – because we were bankrupt at the time – and number two, they will point out to us necessary reforms which many governments were afraid to implement. thankfully, when we had a change of government, some of the measures which the troika introduced were renegotiated, like the rate and the promissory note and so forth, and that was important. now we are in a situation where we have gone from losing 250[nbsp ]000 jobs over a period of three years to creating 60[nbsp ]000 a year, so there is light at the end of the tunnel and things are seeming to work. the troika were fire-fighting; now that the fire-fighting is over we can go on to building architecture. one area we need to look at, though, is legacy debt. we were made a promise on that in the june[nbsp ]2012 summit. if that is delivered, we will be quite happy and things will progress better for us.
madam president, commissioner, earlier this week we had a big debate about the focus of the next council meeting on jobs and growth. clearly these business centres should be part of that agenda, but our colleague daniel caspary has outlined where the problems are. clearly there are a number of issues that need to be looked at. i suppose my question, commissioner, is this: if the concept is a good one – and i think there is a consensus around that – are the problems managerial or structural? what is the particular problem which makes these business centres not fit for purpose? can this state of affairs be remedied, and if so, how? it seems to me that smes themselves, individually, are not best placed to go to these countries and make business connections, so there should be a value in the business centre. my next question is this: how do they link with the work and the centres that individual member states have? is this perhaps a conflict, or is it a problem? can there be more synergies between them? clearly, in order for europe to increase the very low levels of growth, we need new business opportunities, and we need them outside europe as well as inside.
author. - madam president, iceland and the faroe islands have been fishing mackerel indiscriminately for a number of years. iceland has unilaterally increased its share of the mackerel catches from 1[nbsp ]% in 2006 to 23[nbsp ]% in 2013 in waters where there are straddling stocks. meanwhile, the faroe islands have increased their share of mackerel from 4.6[nbsp ]% in 2009 to 23.9[nbsp ]% in 2013 – again in the same area where we have straddling stocks. yesterday evening in london, after many meetings, an agreement was finally signed between the european union, norway and the faroe islands concerning the sharing of mackerel in the northeast atlantic. this arrangement will be in place for some five years. iceland is not a party to this agreement, having withdrawn from the talks and having established its own unilateral quota for 2014. the total allowable catch, as a result of yesterday’s meeting, is 1.2 million tonnes for this coming year. this reflects a recommendation by ices to increase the overall tac. from an irish perspective, of course, i am very pleased, and the agreement is good news for my country and for my constituency. ireland’s mackerel quota will increase from 57[nbsp ]000 tonnes to 105[nbsp ]000 tonnes. this is an industry that is worth eur[nbsp ]125 million, and that will obviously increase substantially this year. this represents a 60[nbsp ]% increase in the provisional quota issued at the start of the year. in the long term, it is worrying that the faroe islands have received a share of 12.6[nbsp ]% as a result of yesterday’s agreement. this is totally unjustified and must not result in long-term losses for the european sector, and indeed for the sector in my own country. while i welcome the commissioner, i must say that commissioner damanaki must take full responsibility for this. her handling of the entire situation – and i will be very reasonable – has been, at the very least, disappointing. her failure to be present here today speaks volumes for the regard that the commissioner has for this parliament and, in particular, for the committee on fisheries. the commissioner was prepared to do a deal at any price and has shown her hand publicly all the time to give 11.9[nbsp ]% and over 12[nbsp ]%. it is not good enough. it is not good enough that the commissioner had the set of tools required to introduce sanctions against these countries when the majority – 98[nbsp ]% of this house – voted in favour of those sanctions. but we must be very grateful to norway. norway stood firm and resisted her efforts to sell out the european fishing industry. a long-term solution is desirable for the sustainability of the mackerel stocks, for the socio-economic interests of the fishing and the processing sectors. regrettably, it appears that this task will now fall to the new commission, and hopefully the new commissioner will look after the interests of the european sector. by way of an example, both iceland and the faroe islands were previously responsible for the overfishing of blue whiting over a number of years and, of course, that resulted in the collapse of the stock. i hope the same does not happen to the mackerel stock. the case of blue whiting shows what can happen if no action is taken. it is disappointing that iceland has once again refused to cooperate with the other coastal states. as such, i firmly believe that real sanctions must now come back on to the table. my report was adopted by this house – as i said – by an overwhelming majority. before the summer recess, the commissioner sat at our committee, eyeballed us and told us that she would immediately set in train the necessary measures to introduce sanctions. what did she do? absolutely nothing. but it was no surprise to me that she reneged on her word and went on to pursue a strategy behind the back of norway, against the best interests of the european industry. she has responsibility for europe. i have no doubt that, if she had imposed those sanctions against iceland last year, we would not be in the position that we are in today, whereby iceland once again refuses to cooperate with other coastal states. in may[nbsp ]2013, the commission used this instrument against the faroe islands, due to their over-fishing of anglo-scandia herring, also in the north atlantic. in conclusion, it is imperative that the commission put in place sanction measures against iceland with immediate effect.
madam president, commissioner, this morning we all welcomed the agreement reached in london yesterday evening between the european union, norway and the faroe islands, because we want to see an end to this irresponsible fishing which has taken place. while the deal is welcome, it does have its problems. however, on the plus side, iceland does not get any increased access to eu waters, and that is vital – from an irish point of view – to protecting the markets for irish fishermen. on the quota available to irish fishermen: again, there is some good news here: it increases by over 60[nbsp ]% from the current 65[nbsp ]000 tonnes to 105[nbsp ]000 tonnes. mackerel is a most valuable fishery resource to ireland. but, like others, we would share the concerns on the increased share of the stock that has been given to the faroe islands, and the further increases set aside for greenland, russia and iceland. i think this is a matter of serious concern, but it is good that there is an agreement. it does allow the european union to look at sanctions for irresponsible fishing for non-contracting parties.
in writing. - i welcome the outcome of the negotiations on the new asylum, migration and integration fund (amif) for the 2014-2020 period. we have managed to secure a 50[nbsp ]% increase in the total budget to over eur[nbsp ]3.1 billion, compared to eur[nbsp ]2.1 billion available under the previous three programmes which are now being brought together. the amif must be used to provide better conditions for migrants, to improve asylum systems and to promote the integration of migrants. we now need to ensure that all member states utilise this new fund correctly and ambitiously.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this as the hong kong international convention will encourage a move towards safer and more environmentally sound recycling of ships in the eu.
a uachtaráin, is dócha go raibh a lán daoine ag cur milleán ar an troika agus tá sé sin intuigthe i slí amháin mar bhí a lán daoine thíos leis de bharr na bpolasaithe a cuireadh i bhfeidhm. ach caithfimid a thuiscint gur tháinig an troika isteach i dtíortha cosúil le mo thír féin mar go rabhamar briste: thug siad an t-airgead práinneach dúinn chun an tír a rith agus bhí orainn leasú a chur i bhfeidhm chun rudaí a chur ina gceart. caithfear an méid seo a rá: tar éis cúpla bliain anois, táimid tar éis éalú as an bailout; níor theipeamar ar ár bhfiacha a íoc; níor thit an euro as a chéile; níor bhris an taontas suas; agus níor caitheadh an ghréig amach as an aontas. inniu i mo thír féin, fuaireamar airgead ar iasacht ó na margaí ar ráta níos lú ná mar a fuaireamar riamh. taispeánann sé sin go bhfuil rudaí ag dul i bhfeabhas agus go bhfuil dóchas ar ais arís. go leana sé ar aghaidh!
mr president, first of all i would like to say that i voted for this report, and i was pleased to see support for the amendment that spoke of the potential conflict of interest as regards the ecb. their current position is, first of all, as a technical adviser, but secondly, as creditor to the four member states. there is definitely a potential for conflict of interest there. however, i was very disappointed that a majority in this house did not support the amendment that would have seen a retrospective recapitalisation of the irish banks through the esm. we were promised in july[nbsp ]2012 by the european council that it would break the link between the banks and the sovereign. this was supposed to happen in ireland. my question is this: will we simply be denied this opportunity because of an accident of timing, since we were first? the eu institutions were at that time stumbling around and very much in the mood to play the blame game. we have been told to be patient – to wait – but as we wait, debt is mounting, as are our interest payments. we have a ratio of 125[nbsp ]% of debt to gdp. we cannot wait any longer for the esm. we voted for it in a referendum. it must be used to immediately recapitalise the irish banks retrospectively.
in writing. - i voted for this report because it exposes serious, long-standing social problems that have emerged because of the actions of the troika. the report’s findings prove that the troika was undemocratic and unaccountable. i strongly believe that this was nothing more than a merciless social experiment – and one that my country, ireland, was on the receiving end of. and i am bitterly disappointed that the report did not clearly state that troika measures were a breach of the eu’s charter of fundamental rights. the devastating conditions now experienced by ordinary people living in 21st century ireland is just unacceptable. i welcome and support the report’s publication; however it will make little difference unless meps from the bailed-out nations continue to use it to make their voices heard in parliament.
in writing. - i welcome the adoption of the resolution on the role and operation of the troika, particularly the fact that meps have supported the amendments i tabled on ireland’s legacy debt. paragraph[nbsp ]10 of this report takes up my amendment no[nbsp ]218 and recognises that the private losses of irish banks were taken onto the shoulders of irish taxpayers in order to ‘minimise the risks of contagion across the euro area as a wholeʼ, and that irish taxpayers ‘acted in the wider interests of the unionʼ. paragraph[nbsp ]74 takes up my amendment no[nbsp ]828 and urges the eu to ‘make good on its [june 2012] commitment to deal with ireland’s bank debt burdenʼ. the adoption of these amendments is the first time this parliament has explicitly supported ireland’s campaign to lessen the bank-debt burden unfairly placed on the shoulders of irish taxpayers.
in writing. - not everything in the report by the committee on economic and monetary affairs on the troika is as we would wish, but overall the compromises are well crafted and do make the relevant points about ireland, and are supportive. it is better to have targeted assistance to ireland and the three programme states than general assistance to all 28 member states. to open compromises would be to put all questions back into negotiation. we therefore support the general thrust of the report.
in writing. - we did not support some of the report by the committee on employment and social affairs on the troika because we consider the compromises reached in the report by the committee on economic and monetary affairs to be more beneficial.
a uachtaráin, tá áthas orm go bhfuilimid ag bunú na hionstraime seo faoin gciste slándála inmheánaí chun comhoibriú idir póilíní a chur i bhfeidhm trasna na heorpa. má éiríonn linn é sin a dhéanamh, beimid in ann dul i ngleic le coiriúlacht de gach saghas, go háirithe a mhéid a bhaineann sé le calaois de chineálacha éagsúla, airgead bréige agus earraí bréige agus mar sin de. cé go gcosnóidh an tacaíocht seo airgead go gearrthéarmach, sábhálfaidh sé airgead san fhadtéarma – agus tá sé sin an-tábhachtach. fáiltím roimhe, freisin, go rabhamar i bhfabhar an tseachtain seo oifig an ionchúisitheora phoiblí eorpaigh a chur ar bun. déanfaidh sé sin an-mhaitheas chun coirpigh a thabhairt os comhair na cúirte agus iad a chur i bpríosún in ionad iad a bheith timpeall na heorpa ag déanamh raic de shaol na ndaoine agus d’eacnamaíocht na heorpa.
in writing. - it was necessary to update the radio equipment directive to reflect modern issues in this area. i backed provisions providing national authorities with additional abilities to ascertain whether radio products comply with new safety rules. this information will allow the creation of a european database similar to that which exists in the united states on radio equipment which must be registered before being put on the market. other provisions which will lead to a more efficient use of the radio spectrum include rules that radio receivers must achieve a minimum level of performance and that devices must not interfere with each other. i believe that one of the most important proposals which my colleagues and i approved relates to the development of a common charger for mobile phones. not only will this help the environment and reduce costs by reducing waste, but the new rules we approved will get rid of the unnecessary and frustrating inconvenience consumers are faced with through the incompatibility of mobile phone chargers.
a uachtaráin, thug mé tacaíocht don mholadh seo chomh maith agus d’fhreastail mé ar an díospóireacht a bhí againn faoi sa pharlaimint inné. gan dabht ar bith, tá sé an-tábhachtach go mbeadh buiséad chomh fial agus chomh flaithiúil is féidir againn an bhliain seo chugainn – an dara bliain ina bhfuilimid ag plé le straitéis 2020 – agus go háirithe maidir leis an gcreat airgeadais don chéad seacht mbliana eile i.e. 2014-2020. chuir sé brón orm a chloisint inné go raibh billí nár íocadh anuraidh ón mbeartas comhtháthaithe. tá sé an-tábhachtach go n-íocfar na billí chomh luath agus is féidir linn. beidh sé an-tábhachtach, freisin, airgead a chur ar fáil don aos óg chun jabanna a sholáthar dóibh. a lán díobh, tá orthu dul ar imirce faoi láthair ach leis an bplean atá againn beimid in ann iad a thabhairt ar ais agus jabanna a thabhairt dóibh le cúnamh dé an bhliain seo chugainn.
in writing. - the european commission must present a budget for 2015 that promotes sustainable growth and jobs all across europe. we need to frontload eu spending in these areas in order to tackle the continuing employment crisis, particularly youth employment. it is not acceptable that over 5.5 million young men and women, including over 50[nbsp ]000 in ireland, are still looking for work. we also need to address the eu’s growing payment deficit, which may now reach eur[nbsp ]26 billion by the end of the year. there are real people, businesses and ngos behind these figures. just as we saw with the erasmus programme last year, there is not a huge cash-flow crisis in the field of humanitarian aid. organisations that are providing much needed humanitarian aid, such as helping refugees and the victims of natural and man-made disasters, need to know that eu funds will arrive on time. this growing problem must be tackled by the member states.
mr[nbsp ]president, i attended the debate on this question yesterday but unfortunately i did not succeed in ‘catching the eye’ – that happens, and i have no complaints. i wanted, however, to respond to one particular proposal. it was suggested that we should boycott the world cup in russia in 2018. i have a far better proposal, and it is this: we should give russia a deadline, maybe sometime this year, and if there is no satisfactory solution by then, we should move all international events designated for russia over the next number of years to some other country. where the world cup is concerned, that would mean moving it, too, to another country. thus the players would not be upset, everything could go as planned, and the only people who would be upset and discriminated against, so to speak, would be in russia itself – which is the real target in this situation. there would be no need for a boycott because there would be no events in russia. i think this proposal is something we should look at. i hope everyone will take it on board, because we need to bring russia to its senses and make it hurt where it matters: in terms of money and image.
in writing. - we welcomed many proposals in this report which seek to strengthen the european commission’s democratic legitimacy and fully enable the european parliament to exercise its power of scrutiny. overall, the report offers a good assessment of the main changes introduced into the interinstitutional relations between the european institutions and offers many good recommendations for the future. by increasing the powers of the european parliament, the lisbon treaty has proven to be a good step in making the european union more democratic by giving more power to european union citizens’ directly elected representatives. however, we could not support this report due to the passing of paragraph 10, which called for the next convention to revisit the size, organisation and functioning of the european commission. this section implies approval for lowering the number of european commissioners. such a move would be severely damaging for the representation in europe of smaller countries such as ireland.
in writing. - i welcome the adoption of the european parliament’s resolution on the eu’s 2013 report on policy coherence for development (pcd). all eu policies that affect developing countries must take full account of eu development policy objectives. we need to eliminate inconsistencies between different eu policy actions that have negative repercussions for developing countries. i do regret that the commission did not come forward with a communication, as in past years, but instead issued a working document. i would hope that this does not mean that pcd is moving down the commission’s political agenda. i would like to see concrete follow-up to one of the calls made in the last ep resolution on pcd in october 2012, for which i served as the employment and social affairs’ committee’s rapporteur, which is reiterated in paragraph 9 of this resolution, namely structured annual meetings between national parliaments and the european parliament..
mr[nbsp ]president, i agree completely with the proposals here, because what is happening in uganda and nigeria – particularly criminalising homosexuality and the draconian, discriminatory penalties that are being applied – is not acceptable. we certainly have to look at the aid we are giving to these countries, and in particular i think we should cut off aid to central government and give it to the ngos. we should also challenge the ugandan president, who claimed that his actions are based on a report by so-called medical experts stating that homosexuality is not genetic and classifying it as social behaviour. clearly there is room here for major educational efforts. if we look at how far we ourselves have come in 20 years, in terms of our attitudes, practices and laws, then hopefully the same can be achieved in a shorter period of time in uganda and nigeria.
madam president, what is the context of this discussion? it is a context whereby the ukrainian people are being squeezed between, on the one hand, the eu and nato, and on the other hand, russia. it is a fight between those for spheres of influence, for economic influence and political influence. that is a fight that i want no part in, and that is the reason i do not support the trade preferences that are an intrinsic part of that fight, together with macro-financial assistance. they are a means of legitimising a self-proclaimed government made up of reactionary oligarchs and forces of the far-right. this is all covered here with words of solidarity, but look at the reality. look at the memorandum of understanding being negotiated by the imf: a massive increase in gas prices; a brutal imposition of austerity; declining currency involving inflation for ordinary households; the minimum wage has been frozen; repayment of eur[nbsp ]6[nbsp ]billion in the next two years. this is not solidarity, it is economic blackmail. real solidarity means standing with the people against the eu, nato and russia and instead standing for a government of people, of workers, rather than a government of the oligarchs.
mr president, across the world we have seen the corporate takeover of sports. soccer is the obvious example. it is a sport built by working-class people that has now been taken over by billionaires, like roman[nbsp ]abramovich and malcolm glazer, in many cases pricing out loyal fans and their families from being able to go to see the games. in ireland, the same process now potentially threatens our national sports. the gaa has been built across the country by amateur players and dedicated volunteers. rupert[nbsp ]murdoch and sky, fresh from scandals in britain, have now been granted exclusive rights to show 14 gaa games this season. this will mean, for example, that thousands of families who cannot afford the luxury of sky sports at eur 64 a month will be unable to watch dublin fight to retain the sam maguire cup. the minister for sport, michael ring, has said that he believes all games should be free to view, but words are cheap. we should immediately have legislation to guarantee that all televised games are available to all.
mr president, hypocrisy abounds on this issue, as on so many others. the eu and us supposedly negotiating to stop the proliferation of nuclear weapons, when they are the same powers that support economically, financially and politically the nuclear power of israel and its policy of terror against, for example, the people of palestine. they are actually using the talks to try and ensure a middle east shaped in their own interests. on the other hand, we have rouhani. i do not think that the regime does reflect any real change in the repressive dictatorial nature of that regime. instead it is a recognition by a section of the ruling clerics that in order to avoid revolt from below they had to try and get the sanctions eased. while they give a liberal face to the outside world, internally it seems that repression has increased. the number of executions has doubled. iran is the number one executor in the entire world. these include human rights activists, political activists, ethnic minorities. working people in iran and in europe cannot trust either side in these negotiations. the sanctions need to be lifted. we need a struggle from below for a change.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – mr president, this report has quite a long and somewhat polarised history here. the right wing in parliament, the council and the commission all tried to avoid comprehensively dealing with the question of human rights violations. we should have a target date today from the commission for when the regulation will be updated. the need for this has been underlined by developments over the past number of years. according to the international federation for human rights, surveillance products and services have seen a big increase in the past few years and can have a dramatic impact on human rights. the market for these products has gone from around zero in 2001 to well over usd[nbsp ]5[nbsp ]billion. a recent report from human rights watch details how surveillance products created by european companies are used to crack down on opposition activists in ethiopia. we have a case of big business being willing to walk over dead bodies in order to maximise products. of course, those abuses do not just take place in so-called rogue states, but also in the heart of western democracy – consider the nsa mass surveillance scandal. what we need is regulation change but, more than that, we need system change.
in writing. - from hip implants to pacemakers and breast implants, consumers use medical devices on a day-to-day basis and these products most often contribute significantly to people’s health and well-being. medical devices make hearts beat and allow people to walk and, if not of a high quality, they could jeopardise consumers’ lives. therefore, it is only right that there is a regulatory framework in place that guarantees that these products are safe and effective. this is about balancing patient safety, which should be the first priority, with swift access to the eu market and innovation by medical device companies. patient safety should always be a priority and that is why i voted in favour of this opportunity to enhance patient care and safety and ensure the highest standards of medical devices.
in writing. - from hip implants to pacemakers and breast implants, consumers use medical devices on a day-to-day basis and these products most often contribute significantly to people’s health and well-being. medical devices make hearts beat and allow people to walk and, if not of a high quality, they could jeopardise consumer’s lives. therefore, it is only right that there is a regulatory framework in place that guarantees that these products are safe and effective. this is about balancing patient safety, which should be the first priority, with swift access to the eu market and innovation by medical device companies. patient safety should always be a priority and that is why i voted in favour of this opportunity to enhance patient care and safety and ensure the highest standards of medical devices.
in writing. - i voted to support the end of roaming charges in the european union by the end of 2015. irish consumers, wherever they are in the european union, will pay the same rate for phone calls, texts and internet data on their mobile phones as they would at home in ireland. the end of roaming charges in the european union is a welcome victory for irish people holidaying or working in other member states. no longer will consumers be fearful of calling home when they are travelling in europe. nightmare scenarios of arriving home to exorbitantly large phone bills for minimal phone usage should cease to happen. the new measures will apply to phone calls, texts and internet data on mobile phones. the end of roaming charges along with other telecommunications measures approved today heralds a revamp of the telecoms landscape in the european union to make it more consumer-friendly and more competitive. i also voted for provisions in this report which support net neutrality and get rid of loopholes which undermine the principle of open internet.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report as i believe that consumers across europe should not be subject to excessive charges for using mobile phones outside of their member state. this is a very positive step in the completion of the single market, i look forward to december 2015, when it is implemented across the eu-28.
in writing. - i voted to support this sensible approach to bovine eid. given the significant problems faced by farmers in the sheep sector due to eid labelling, the option for voluntary eid tagging for member states for the first five years is welcome and gives the sector time to prepare. i previously questioned the commission on the negative experience of farmers concerning the impact of the eid on the health and welfare of sheep. it is reported that the incidence of welfare problems and infection caused by eid tags can be anything up to 50%, with serious animal welfare implications that are contrary to all good farming practice. despite concerns raised by meps at the time the commission went ahead with sheep eid. hopefully lessons have been learned from this mistake and member states take the flexibility given under this bovine eid regulation to work with farmers to effectively utilise the five-year transition period. i fully support the deletion of voluntary labelling requirements and bureaucratic burden. food safety is a priority and we must work with farmers to ensure that the system is practical and delivers the optimum level of food safety without any unnecessary bureaucracy.
i wrote it. - the presidency is a very important safety issue for the people of europe and is clearly the most important thing in the world today. i would like to welcome the new legislation on electronic health recording for the next five years, which will make it possible for the sector to implement the new legislation on electronic health recording in the future. i voted for the bhfabhar an phractical approach with the don tsainaithint electronach of the bhó-ainmhithe. the problems are the same as farmers in the hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear i'll have you do a sector and prepare yourself. i'd like to point out that the laws were made to provide for the needs of the people and to provide for the needs of the administration, but they were not made to provide for the needs of the consumers. safety is of the utmost importance and we must work with farmers to implement a practical system to ensure that safety is maintained at a high level.
in writing. - i welcome the adoption of this report. the existing system of identification and traceability of cattle, introduced in the wake of the bse crisis, has served us well and is a world-leading system. the proposal for the electronic identification of bovines, which will be voluntary for member states, should lead to greater accuracy and provide improved and faster traceability of animals, as well as less administration for farmers.
madam president, i think lobbying is in some respects an unfortunate word to use, because it has a negative tone to it. done properly, it can actually be very beneficial. i was rapporteur on data protection for the committee on industry, research and energy and the lobbying done – if you want to call it that – was open, transparent and very informative. in particular, it can give examples of where the unintended consequences of proposed legislation could be damaging and obviously amendments can be made accordingly. but it is also very important that we have total transparency in regard to it, particularly if it is overdone. there was a lot of talk recently about the tobacco directive and the influence there from lobbyists. i think that once we have proper transparency, a proper register and an account of the lobbying done, that will go a long way to allaying people’s fears regarding it.
mr president, i just want to ask you how many people who requested the floor under catch-the-eye you did not give the floor to. this is a very important debate. personally i left home this morning at 5.30. it is now past 22.00. i think those who wanted to speak should have been allowed to speak, because most times you are complaining that there are not enough members in the house. what is the point in coming if they are not allowed to speak under catch-the-eye? if you had a huge number, perhaps i could understand, but i would like to know the number of people that you were unable to give the floor to.
mr president, it is a pleasure to speak now and i want to talk about a measure that is very important to farmers in ireland. last week mr jim nicholson and i met producers north and south of the border in ireland, and it seems that there are lots of practices which they are unhappy with, particularly at the hands of meat processors and retailers. we have traceability from farm to fork, but, as part of a quality assurance scheme, farmers in ireland cannot move cattle more than four times or they will not benefit, and the last movement has to be more than 30 days before slaughter. we feel this is discriminatory. also, compared with the united kingdom, farmers in ireland will be getting eur 200 to 300 less per animal, while the consumer buying the meat on the shelves in the united kingdom is paying the same price. we want this examined under competition law and the functioning of the single market.
madam president, i should like to thank colleagues gunnar hökmark, marianne thyssen, corien wortman-kool and others across the political divide for this excellent work today. commissioner, you used the word that this was a ‘violent’ crisis. and violent is how it was in terms of its impact on families, on society, on politics right across the european union. let me explain, lest we forget the figures. in the irish context – and remember, our taxpayers took the hit, which we said from now on will not happen in the future – the amount was eur 64 billion. the agreement which the leaders reached in june 2012 to break the link between the banks and sovereign, and to address the legacy debt for ireland, needs to be honoured. i am pleased about your work, commissioner, and you talked of ethics and morality. it is not the first time and i thank you for using those words in this chamber about the banking sector. good luck to all to those who do not run in the future, and to those who do.
a uachtaráin, mar a dúirt an t-uasal karas: is lá mór iontach é seo don aontas eorpach mar táimid tagtha go deireadh cúig bliana nó níos mó oibre. tá moladh mór ag dul do gach duine, go háirithe don choimisinéir barnier agus tá súil agam go bhfaighidh sé post a oireann don tallann atá aige mar tá jab iontach déanta aige le cúig bliana anuas. thankfully, this is a great day, as has been said. i just want to emphasise three points. the deposit guarantee scheme is huge for depositors. it will create confidence in banks and is a job well done. banks’ bonuses are being limited, which is very important. i would prefer them to be less, but at least they are better than they were. the concept of ‘too big to fail’ has also been mentioned. one way of making sure that banks are not too big to fail is by ensuring that they are not too big. regarding the irish solution, my colleague has referred to that and i endorse it.
madam president, i wish to pay tribute to the work done by elisa ferreira for her longstanding commitment and her determination to prevent a repetition of the financial disasters that have cost us so much since 2008. as my colleague mairead mcguinness has said, it cost us eur[nbsp ]64 billion in public money – equivalent to over 40% of our gdp. this deal actually brings us many steps forward towards a stronger and more prudent european banking system. together with stronger banking supervision and stricter capital requirements we will now have rules for the orderly winding down or restructuring of our troubled banks. i believe it is the most important piece of legislation that we will have passed in this term of the european parliament. i wish we had done it sooner and that the member states had allowed it to go further. we will have a hierarchy of shareholders and bondholders responsible for bailing in banks and taking on the bulk of their losses, and an eu single resolution mechanism funded by the bank levies will be in place to deal with the remainder of the losses.
mr president, i would like to thank my colleague christel schaldemose for her work on consumer safety in our internal market, because this legislative package is a necessary improvement of our current safety legislation, which is fragmented across a number of sector-specific rules for different consumer products. now we can have a single eu-wide regulation imposing general safety standards and requirements across the supply chain from manufacturers, through importers, to distributors. products which pose a risk to the health and safety of consumers have to be subject to a traceability system. we are also bringing stronger provisions to protect vulnerable consumers, including children, from safety risks involved in handling certain products. the establishment of a pan-european injury database would be an important tool to identify and eliminate serious health and safety threats. strong penalties across the board, together with thorough and vigorous market surveillance, are essential for consumer safety and confidence and help to ensure a level playing field for our businesses, protecting the competitiveness of those who comply with consumer protection rules.
madam president, i commend the rapporteur on this report. the new single resolution mechanism for european banks that was adopted by the european parliament today is a vital and essential step towards breaking the link between bank debt and sovereign debt and for the retrospective capitalisation of irish banks, which was agreed upon by eu leaders in june 2012. the srm regulation introduces a coordinated european approach for failed banks. it stipulates that bank shareholders and creditors should bear the cost of bank failures, and that private sector solutions should be found rather than using taxpayers’ money. ireland’s economic recovery is very much challenged by the fact that one quarter of our debt was placed on the shoulders of irish taxpayers in order to safeguard the euro. in agreeing, in june 2012, to break once and for all the link between bank debt and sovereign debt, eu government leaders accepted the principle of the recapitalisation of irish banks. given that the practical effect of this decision means proper european banking regulation, a single supervisory mechanism for banks, a single resolution framework for failed banks and a european deposit guarantee scheme, i was happy to support the resolution and the report.
in writing. - the banking union is the collective term for a package of new legislation to monitor, supervise and regulate the banking sector in europe. the banking union comprises the following two pillars: the single supervisory mechanism (ssm) and the single resolution mechanism (srm) which was adopted today. the banking union is designed to ensure that what happened in ireland and europe in terms of the banking collapse will never happen again. the adoption of the banking union should strengthen irelandʼs legitimate case for a retrospective deal on its bank debt as these specific measures were not available to ireland and the irish taxpayer during the crisis.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this for this framework as it sets out credible rules for the recovery and resolution of banks that would break the link between banks and sovereigns. while it will not undo the mistakes of the past, i believe it will stop such a mess occurring again. however, i do not believe that this can be the end of the road in our negotiations; it is essential that we remain alert and ensure that the implementing rules that are laid down are fair and protect the most vulnerable member states.
a uachtaráin, cosúil leis na feisirí eile, bhí áthas orm tacaíocht a thabhairt don tuarascáil seo agus vótáil ina fabhar de réir mo ghrúpa. mar a dúirt an tuachtarán, an tuasal schultz, ar maidin is lá stairiúil é seo mar tá cúig bliana oibre tugtha i gcrích agus anois tá aontas baincéireachta beagnach bunaithe againn. i gcás na saoránach, beidh muinín acu anois as na bainc nach raibh acu, b’fhéidir, riamh agus cinnte nach raibh acu le cúig bliana anuas. ós rud é go bhfuil airgead slán sábháilte anois sna bainc, déanfaidh sé sin an-difríocht. ós rud é go bhfuil an ecb i gceannas ar na bainc ó thaobh feitheoireachta de, déanfaidh sé sin an-difríocht freisin agus tabharfaidh sé sin muinín ní hamháin do shaoránaigh ach do lucht gnó chomh maith.
a uachtaráin, bhí áthas orm arís tacaíocht a thabhairt do mo ghrúpa sna vótaí go léir a bhaineann leis an tuarascáil seo. tá moladh mór ag dul don uasal hökmark agus do na daoine eile, go háirithe an cúigear ban a raibh baint acu leis an ábhar seo i gcoitinne. freisin, is fiú an coimisinéir barnier a mholadh as ucht an treoir agus an cheannaireacht a thug sé i rith na gcúig bliana agus i rith an chúlaithe eacnamaíochta. táimid ag éalú as an gcúlú anois agus táimid ag cur struchtúr ar bun is dócha a chinnteoidh nach dtarlóidh sé arís. go háirithe a mhéid a bhaineann leis na bainc, má theipeann siad tá struchtúr ann anois chun déileáil leo. den chuid is mó, beidh orthu díol as a lochtanna féin – má tharlaíonn siad – agus ní bheidh ar shaoránaigh díol astu mar a tharla in éirinn. tá bail in againn anois in ionad bail out, mar a tharla in éirinn. agus maidir leis an bail out in éirinn, tá gnó nach bhfuil críochnaithe ann go fóill.
i scríbhinn. - vótáil mé i bhfabhar na scéime tráthúla nua fógraíochta seo lena mbeidh fáil ag táirgí talmhaíochta eorpacha ar mhargaí nua. spreagfaidh scéim fógraíochta an ae eolas i measc tomhaltóirí ar ard-chaighdeán táirgíochta táirgí talmhaíochta eorpacha agus ar scéimeanna cáilíochta eorpacha cosúil leis an tásc geografach faoi chosaint agus an t-ainmniú cosanta tionscnaimh. cuirfear béim ar mhargaí nua a oscailt do tháirgí eorpacha, go háirithe i dtríú tíortha le cumas ard fáis, ar mhaithe le cumas iomaíochta domhanda earnáil talmhaíochta an ae a fheabhsú. beidh méadú suntasach faoin scéim ar bhearta fógraíochta, ag dul ó eur[nbsp ]61.5 milliún sa bhliain 2013 go eur[nbsp ]200 milliún i 2020, le buiséad iomlán de eur[nbsp ]800 milliún ann. tá 85% de bhia agus bia mara na héireann á onnmhairiú go 160[nbsp ]tír ar fud an domhain ag 600[nbsp ]comhlacht bia agus dí éireannacha. is fiú eur[nbsp ]25 billiún don gheilleagar an earnáil seo agus tá breis is 150,000 duine fostaithe inti, ach tá cumas fáis inti i gcónaí, go háirithe i margaí nua éiritheacha an domhain. ní mór go gcuirfí béim anois ar an gcomhoibriú le táirgeoirí bia agus dí éireannacha agus iad a spreagadh chun stádas cosanta agus maoiniú eorpach a lorg chun go mbeadh siad in ann a dtáirgí a chur i lár aontaí nua.
mr president, in my three years in this parliament i have seen clearly what david cronin, in his book ‘corporate europe’, meant when he said that the majority of meps behave like ventriloquist dummies for big business. it is a situation where it is completely acceptable to have breakfast at breakfast events with big arms dealers. it is a situation where meps do not even get a slap on the wrist for putting down amendments for the us chamber of commerce, as an irish mep and his colleagues did last year. it is a situation where a revolving door exists between politicians and careers as a corporate lobbyist, as we have seen with many former irish ministers. it sums up the reality of two europes: one europe of the 1% with instant access to well-paid politicians, and another of the 99%, who get to vote once every five years and then – for the rest of the time – are told simply to accept the attacks on their living standards that are imposed. this report is on the agenda because of the hard campaigning of many activists. i call on all candidates who are standing for this election to sign up to the ‘politics for people’ pledge launched by alter-eu today.
in writing. - i support the agreement reached by the european parliament and the commission strengthening the eu transparency register for all lobbyists, first introduced in 2011. this is an important step towards greater transparency in lobbyists’ interaction with the european parliament and the commission. at present an estimated 75% of all commercial-related lobbyists and about 60% of ngos operating in brussels are signed up. these organisations should apply the new standards before they take effect in january 2015. i would also like to see the register given legal effect through binding eu legislation and, most importantly, the council signing up to the agreement. being able to find out who is lobbying political institutions such as the commission, parliament and the council is a fundamental requirement for a truly democratic society.
member of the commission. - mr president, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr daerden, and the shadow rapporteurs for their work in finalising the legislative work on the public employment services decision. adopting this decision now sends a strong signal that the european union uses all available tools and networks to fight unemployment. the decision will improve the functioning of public employment services in the eu. it will further strengthen the coordination of employment policies at european level. public employment services are at the forefront of action to tackle unemployment and to improve the resilience of the labour market. they have, however, very different levels of performance. during the european semester 2013, eight member states received country-specific recommendations on their public employment services, and presumably there will again be such recommendations in the european semester 2014. moreover, public employment services are key actors for the implementation of the council recommendation on establishing a youth guarantee. the starting point for delivering the youth guarantee to a young person should be their registration with an employment service. the public employment services network to be established under this decision should carry out concrete initiatives, such as a common evidence-based reference system, combining benchmarking and mutual learning activities, mutual assistance between the network members and the implementation of strategic actions for the modernisation of public employment services. this should help them to raise their performance level and improve services to job seekers. i note that the council plans to adopt a unilateral statement emphasising the voluntary nature of member states’ participation in this network, while stating that all member states will participate. the commission has made it clear on various occasions that it does not share this legal interpretation. therefore, the commission, at the time of the adoption of the legal text in the council, will issue a declaration with a view to ensuring full clarity on the interpretation of the legal base. i understand that the house wants to adopt a similar declaration. while the need for legal clarity is important, what is crucial today is to adopt the decision and make sure it will be implemented. this is what matters to citizens in the european union. job seekers and employers alike expect good public services, including high-quality services delivered by the public employment services. therefore, i call on you, the members of the european parliament, to adopt this proposal.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, i commend the rapporteur frédéric daerden for the work that he has done on this report. the simple reason why we have 26 million people unemployed across europe, including nearly 100[nbsp ]000 in my own constituency of dublin, is because there are not enough jobs, and the way to reduce unemployment is for europe to move its focus from one-sided austerity towards sustainable growth. at the same time closer cooperation between all member states’ public employment services does have an important role to play. europe can help public employment services work well by helping them work together. there is much that we can learn from each other, particularly in the implementation of the youth guarantee. a european network of employment services would help us better anticipate and detect emerging labour market problems and to respond more effectively. such a network would facilitate and encourage cooperation with the social partners, trade unions, ngos and regional authorities to ensure their support and cooperation in helping people back to work. it would also facilitate the implementation of employment projects part-financed by the structural and investment funds, particularly the social fund. indeed, in ireland our public employment service is undergoing a fundamental transformation at present with the roll-out of new intreo offices, which will ensure for the first time that a person’s first contact with an employment office will be their first day on a pathway back into work. i look forward to seeing ireland take part in this new initiative and i would support the proposal that all countries should and must participate in this network.
mr president, when we speak about unemployment and we speak about the solutions, many are the times we forget that employment is created not so much by governments or by state agencies but by other people creating businesses and creating opportunities for those businesses to grow. many of the blockages to increased employment are at member state level, and action needs to be taken at those levels to guarantee that not only do we give the skills and resources to people to allow them take up those new jobs but also guarantee that those skills and training live up to a certain standard. there is an old saying which goes: give a man a fish, you feed him for a day; teach a man to fish, you feed him for life. that is what is most important now with this whole current crisis, especially with youth unemployment: that we give skills to people to ensure that they have the skills for those new jobs that are coming down along the line. not just massaging figures by running training courses, jobs bridges or pathways or whatever else, but actual real results for them.
vice-president of the commission. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the text which parliament is about to adopt is one of the most awaited by the citizens and represents an important message also on the eve of the vote on the renewal of this parliament. we are removing the bureaucratic burden on those who decide to buy a car in another eu country and then bring it back to its country of origin. this seems a simple operation, but in the context of the internal market and the age of mobility it often becomes a kind of ordeal for the citizen who is forced to carry out countless bureaucratic procedures. this is all the more evident from the fact that citizens say that the registration of motor vehicles is one of the 20 main problems in relation to the single market. we are therefore solving a problem which is very close to the hearts of the european citizens, from whom we continue to receive letters, messages and emails complaining that motor vehicle registration is too complicated. when it comes into force, this proposal will allow citizens who spend part of the year in another eu country, travelling by car, not to re-register their car in the country where they are. citizens who buy a used car in another country will not have to face additional technical checks and administrative problems. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. car rental companies will also be able to move cars to another eu country during peak season without having to re-register, and this will help to reduce the price of car rental. the tasks of the registration authorities will be facilitated as information will be exchanged between the different countries through an electronic system, making it much easier to re-register regular cars, more difficult to re-register stolen vehicles. unfortunately, there is a huge traffic of stolen cars that are then re-registered. we also estimated that the proposal would lead to substantial administrative simplification, with savings of around €1.5 billion per year for businesses, citizens and registration authorities. mr president, allow me to thank parliament, and in particular mr manders, for the work done, all the shadow rapporteurs and the effort made to get this proposal passed before the end of this parliament. as usual, parliament has been a valuable ally of the commission. however, i cannot but express my regret that the council was not prepared to adopt this important proposal at first reading, despite the efforts and flexibility shown by this parliament. we sometimes get the impression that the authorities of the member states are always ready to criticise europe and the commission, to ask us to do more to reduce bureaucratic burdens and to make life easier for citizens, and then when we have to go from words to deeds and perhaps give up the proceeds from double checks, then the situation changes and the rush disappears and the fight against bureaucracy becomes a defence of the bureaucratic burden. i can assure you, however, that the commission will do everything possible to try to get the proposal adopted during the course of this year.
madam president, i am disappointed that we are not completing this dossier tomorrow because, as many speakers have already said, this is a direct response to one of the top ten concerns of eu citizens – i.e. the issue of the difficulties arising out of car registration when they are moving from one member state to another. indeed, the whole area of the implementation of vehicle registration tax legislation is also an issue for many irish citizens, especially those who live along the border with northern ireland. also, while this dossier does not deal with the specific issue of cars being loaned from one person to another, i recently did receive a letter from the eu commission which clarified that if a vehicle is registered, for example, in northern ireland and is loaned to a person living in the republic, then it is perfectly legal for that person to drive it, and yet we have so many examples of where cars are seized and people are fined. this is totally illegal and must not continue. this current proposal clarifies the formalities of moving motor vehicles from one member state to another, and will greatly simplify those procedures. we have had many cases at the court of justice where citizens have had to go to the court to assert their rights – for example in the use of trade plates. this is crazy and it makes legitimate business very difficult to conduct in a cross-border context. when we finally reach agreement on this dossier, and i believe we can, i think we will solve many of those problems in regard to trade plates and vehicle registration.
in writing. - i welcome this forward step for the free movement of workers. by voting for this legislation we are ensuring that workers moving to a different european union member state will be able to take their full pension rights with them. currently, workers moving to other member states risk losing many of their entitlements. the new rules will change this. workers will now have access to their full pension rights, including to supplementary pension schemes. while previously the council of ministers blocked this important legislation for six years, i am encouraged by the progress in the negotiations on this legislation between parliament and the council and urge the council to formally approve these measures promptly.
in writing. - parliament and the council have reached a good agreement on the labour force sample survey. the labour force survey is the framework of reference for the collection of statistical information about labour markets. its ‘core’ modules are chiefly of interest to the member states whereas the ‘ad hoc’ modules are more relevant to specific eu initiatives, such as those related to the employment targets under the europe 2020 strategy. the new regulation will enable the commission to provide financial support to member states implementing these modules, thereby encouraging greater participation by the member states. i would like to see ad hoc modules on the implementation of the european youth guarantee. it will also take account of the reforms introduced by the lisbon treaty in relation to the delegation of powers to the commission. as my group’s shadow rapporteur for this proposal i would like to pay tribute to the rapporteur, ms[nbsp ]zdanoka, and the other shadow rapporteurs, for the constructive way in which they approached this dossier.
in writing. - i believe a good compromise was reached by parliament and the council on limiting aircraft and airport noise. the new regulation will strengthen the protection of citizens living near large airports such as dublin airport. national or local authorities as appropriate, and they alone, will decide on whether or not traffic restrictions need to be imposed in order to protect residents living locally, particularly during the night. in taking these decisions they must take account of health and social aspects and follow the ‘balanced approach’ established by the international civil aviation organisation (icao). this new regulation will enter into force by 2016, although a one-year transition period will allow the adoption of an operating restriction in accordance with the previous directive on airport noise, provided the prior consultation process was ongoing when the new regulation entered into force. how this derogation will apply in practice needs to be clarified for the benefit of residents living near large airports.
mr president, the gross exploitation of one million so-called posted workers is a daily reminder of the emptiness of any talk of a social europe. this is a category of migrant workers who are not given the right to equal pay for equal work; where the european court of justice in cases like laval, luxembourg and viking has given a legal right to so-called service providers to exploit workers in another country. the court has made it illegal for states or for unions to attempt to enforce any standards of workersʼ rights above the absolute minimum. today we had what was supposedly an attempt to deal with this exploitation but it was a completely unacceptable compromise that compromises on those workersʼ rights, failing to address all of the real problems that they face: lack of information, fraudulent companies not paying wages, health and safety, social security contributions; and also failing to deal with sham companies which supposedly set up in another country simply in order to better exploit workers in their true home country. what is more, this directive locks in the current legal race to the bottom for another five years. workers will have to rely on their own strength, their own trade union organisation.
in writing. - i could not support the final text agreed by parliament and council negotiators on the enforcement on the posting of workers directive. while progress was made in some areas, such as on improving cooperation between national authorities and on the cross-border enforcement of fines and penalties, i was disappointed that the council was not willing to meet parliament half-way on other key issues, namely article[nbsp ]3, on the prevention of abuse and circumvention, article[nbsp ]9, on effective national control measures, and article[nbsp ]12, on ensuring joint and several liability in subcontracting chains. i believe the proposed enforcement directive could have and should have been used to address the genuine legal uncertainties opened by the ecj’s laval and related rulings. we still need a fundamental overhaul of the posting of workers directive in order to better protect workers posted to another country and also to ensure legal certainty for businesses that wish to provide services across europe. that remains a key challenge for the next commission and european parliament.
in writing. - one hundred billion plastic bags are used per year in the european union and eight billion of these end up as litter. these plastic bags blight europeʼs countryside and significantly damage europeʼs rich and diverse ecosystems, particularly our aquatic ecosystems. many plastic bags end up in europeʼs water bodies every year and kill millions of marine animals. therefore, we wholeheartedly welcome the new rules in this draft directive aimed at reducing the use of plastic bags in the european union by at least 80[nbsp ]% by 2019 through the use of marketing restrictions, taxes and levies, or bans. we encourage the member states of the european union to follow the example set by ireland, which is a front runner in the fight to curb the use of plastic bags. a 15[nbsp ]cent tax on plastic bags was introduced in ireland in march 2002. this levy led within weeks to a 94[nbsp ]% reduction in the use of plastic bags. the irish example shows that the targeted reduction of 80[nbsp ]% by 2019 is easily implementable.
a uachtaráin, dúirt mé go minic sa pharlaimint seo go bhfuil mé i bhfabhar acmhainní dílse agus vótáil mé i gcoitinne ar son na moltaí anseo inniu. ba bhreá liom dá ndéanfadh an chomhairle níos mó chun dul síos an bóthar linn chun é sin a thabhairt isteach, mar dhéanfadh sé an-difríocht amach anseo don bhuiséad – nó an mff mar a thugtar air. chonaiceamar anuraidh an deacracht a bhí againn chun an buiséad a fháil agus chun socrú faoi ag an deireadh. dá mbeadh ár n-acmhainní féin againn, dhéanfadh sé sin an-difríocht do na ballstáit. freisin, má thugaimid isteach é, caithfear a chinntiú nach luífidh sé róthrom ar aon tír níos mó ná tír eile; is é sin go mbeadh sé féaráilte do gach uile thír. is féidir é sin a dhéanamh.
in writing. - we believe that national contributions to the eu budget based on gni and vat based revenue provide the fairest and most effective way to fund the eu budget. we welcome the establishment of the high level group on own resources, which was part of the agreement on the mff for the period 2014 to 2020. we await the recommendations of the high level group on alternative financing arrangements, keeping in mind our view on the matter.
in writing. - we believe that national contributions to the eu budget based on gni and vat based revenue provide the fairest and most effective way to fund the eu budget. we welcome the establishment of the high level group on own resources, which was part of the agreement on the mff for the period 2014 to 2020. we await the recommendations of the high level group on alternative financing arrangements, keeping in mind our view on the matter.
a uachtaráin, arís bhí áthas orm tacaíocht a thabhairt do mo ghrúpa ins na vótaí go léir a bhaineann leis an tuarascáil seo. is é seo ceann de na cistí is fearr atá againn san aontas eorpach mar feiceann saoránaigh go dtagann an taontas i gcabhair orthu nuair a bhíonn gá leis agus nuair a bhíonn siad in ísle brí – mar a tharlaíonn go minic nuair a thiteann tubaistí nádúrtha amach. fuair mo thír féin tacaíocht ón gciste sin cúpla bliain ó shin nuair a bhí tuilte móra i mo cheantar féin, go háirithe i gcathair chorcaí. ach i mbliana, tar éis stoirmeacha móra agus mar sin de agus a lán damáiste déanta don chósta agus araile, tá an rialtas tar éis a rá nach fiú dóibh cur isteach ar an gciste mar nach n-oireann na cúinsí do na coinníollacha. is trua sin. ba chóir cabhair a thabhairt d’aon áit nuair a bhíonn tubaiste ann, is cuma cé chomh beag a bhíonn an chabhair sin.
a uachtaráin, thugas tacaíocht do mo ghrúpa leis na vótaí anseo chomh maith. bíonn rudaí mar seo conspóideach, ach i ndeireadh na báire is dóigh liom gur thógamar an cinneadh ceart. tugann sé seans don tionscal seo treisiú amach anseo agus beidh sé sin an-tábhachtach. tá obair an-mhaith déanta ag an rapóirtéir, bean girling. bean eile a rinne a lán oibre le blianta beaga anuas ar an ábhar seo ná astrid lulling. tá astrid ag éirí as – de réir mar a chloisim ach ní féidir a bheith cinnte faoi. gan dabht ar bith rinne sí an-chuid oibre ins an ábhar seo agus tá súil agam de bharr na hoibre seo go mbeidh an bia folláin seo ar fáil do mhuintir na heorpa amach anseo agus nach mbeidh sé ródhaor do na saoránaigh.
blue-card question. – i note that you said that terror is a useful tool, and i would ask the question whether terror is perhaps a useful tool for your group, for the commission and for all those in europe who want to undermine people’s democratic rights, people’s human rights and the right to privacy, and who want to use the war on terror as a pretext to do so.
mr president, i think that whether people were in favour of this directive or not, we have to welcome the fact that in the european union the courts were able to look at it independently and come up with a judgment which, of course, we should welcome and take on board. i think there is great credit due to digital rights ireland which took this matter to the high court and also the constitutional court in austria which referred it onwards. i do not think there is a need for anybody to be too upset over it because the first point in regard to what we always want to achieve is to ensure that people’s fundamental rights are preserved and above all within the european union, because we are always talking about the need to have these rights worldwide. what this judgment points out to us is that, in the fight against serious crime, and ultimately public security, the court is of the opinion that by adopting the data retention directive, the eu legislature has exceeded the limits imposed by compliance with the principle of proportionality. it also goes on to say: ‘the wide-ranging and particularly serious interference of the directive with the fundamental rights at issue is not sufficiently circumscribed to ensure that that interference is actually limited to what is strictly necessaryʼ. so what we have to do is look at it and ensure that what we come up with does what it says on the tin, does not go beyond the limits and that people, particularly nowadays as more and more people are going online, can have the knowledge and security that their data is safe and that those charged with law, compliance and so forth are doing everything according to the courts. and i think that is what we have to do now.
mr president, this decision could not come at a more appropriate time. it is a context whereby there is an awareness worldwide of the mass surveillance that we all now face. it is a context where the attack on privacy unleashed by the so-called war on terror has been exposed by the heroic action of edward snowden. i welcome the decision of the european court of justice to strike down this ‘snooper’s charter’. i find the response of some members here deeply ironic, because it is their groups who allowed this to go through in three months, only eight years ago. they are the ones now saying: it is welcome, it is good, etc., while of course adding the rider that we need to fight against terrorism, which means they actually do not welcome the judgment. let us remember what we had here: you have privatised big brother isps, phone companies spying on the mass of people by logging details about their location, their text messages, their e-mails, their internet use and storing that information for two years. let us remember who we need to thank here: which is activists across europe, including in ireland, for taking up these issues, for struggling, for taking a court case in ireland against the state, by digital rights ireland, questioning the legality of irish data retention legislation. let us also remember that this issue is not now done with because of all those countries that have passed a domestic law. they now need to be challenged from below. they should not have to be; the commission should take that up. but if they do not, then they need to be challenged from below with movements and with court cases challenging this: that how can these possibly be proportional? we also have to ensure that this victory is not undone and some of the comments by the epp here and by the commission’s spokesperson previously, are very worrying. the commission’s spokesperson responded to the ruling saying that ‘we remain clearly and seriously committed to fighting crime and terrorism’. i do not really know what that has to do with this ruling, to be honest. does it mean we are going to have more anti-democratic, big brother directives from the european union, or will you please stop using terrorism as an excuse to invade people’s privacy?
a uachtaráin, cé nach bhfuil mórán daoine timpeall, tá an t-ábhar seo an-tábhachtach dúinn. saoirse do reiligiúin agus aitheantas ar chultúir, agus meas ar an dá rud, tá sé an-tábhachtach – go háirithe sa lá atá inniu ann má táimid le dul chun cinn a dhéanamh mar dhaonra sa domhan agus mar chine daonna ach go háirithe. gach tráthnóna déardaoin pléimid na hábhair seo mar a bhfuil éagóir le feiceáil trasna an domhain uilig. mar a dúirt an tuasal preda, beimid ag caint faoi tráthnóna amárach – go háirithe faoin éagóir atá á dhéanamh ar chríostaithe sa phacastáin. is cinnte go bhfuil éagóir an-mhór á dhéanamh ar chríostaithe timpeall an domhain uilig. ba chóir dúinne, go háirithe mo pháirtí féin mar a dúirt an tuasal posselt agus an tuasal svensson agus daoine eile, seasamh suas dóibh agus sa tslí sin beimid ag seasamh suas do shaoirse do gach uile reiligiún nó fiú amháin do dhaoine nach bhfuil aon reiligiún in aon chur acu nó nach gcreidid i ndia in aon chor – tá sé sin an-tábhachtach. ba mhaith liom ins an gcéad chúig bliana eile ina mbeidh an pharlaimint seo ar siúl go ndéanfaimis athbhreithniú ar na polasaithe atá againn maidir le cúnamh forbartha do thíortha agus freisin an comhréiteach a dhéanaimid le tíortha, go háirithe chun a chinntiú go mbeadh ins na tíortha sin: saoirse reiligiúin, aitheantas do chultúir éagsúla, cearta do mhná – tá sé scannalach an méid atá ar siúl timpeall an domhain maidir le cearta a shéanadh ar mhná – agus, an rud deireanach, deireadh a chur le pionós an bháis, mar a dúirt an t-uasal ón gcomhairle.
a uachtaráin, ba mhaith liom na coimisinéirí almunia agus malmström a mholadh as ucht an dea-obair atá déanta acu, ní hamháin leis an tuarascáil seo ach ina lán tuarascálacha eile le cúig bliana anuas. b’fhéidir nach ndéanaimid an focal molta rómhinic. ach freisin, tá moladh ag dul don rapóirtéir, mo chomhghleacaí an tuasal schwab. rinne sé an-jab agus dá bharr seo is féidir linn a bheith cinnte go gcabhróidh sé linn an margadh aonair a chur i bhfeidhm i gceart. tá sé sin an-tábhachtach, go háirithe mar a bhaineann leis an dlí a bhaineann le comórtais. gan dabht ar bith ceapann a lán daoine, agus an ceart acu go minic, go bhfuil comhcheilg ar siúl ina gcoinne agus go bhfuil éagóir á dhéanamh orthu agus ní bhíonn a fhios acu cad atá le déanamh faoi. tugann sé seo seans dóibh rud éigin a dhéanamh faoi sa chúirt, nó mar a dúradh taobh amuigh den chúirt más féidir, agus cúiteamh a fháil a oireann don chás atá acu.
a uachtaráin, gan dabht ar bith is ábhar an-chonspóideach é seo mar a chonaiceamar ins an díospóireacht a bhí againn go dtí seo ar maidin. ní ionadh é sin, mar táimid ag caint faoi imircigh mhídhleathacha ag teacht isteach go dtí an taontas – suas le leathmhilliún díobh in aghaidh na bliana. caithfimid a thuiscint cén fáth go bhfuil siad ag teacht isteach. mar a dúradh, tá siad ag teitheadh ó chogadh agus ó bhochtanas; tá siad in éadóchas agus tá siad ag lorg saol níos fearr dóibh féin – rud daonna do gach uile dhuine. ach ag an am céanna, tá siad mídhleathach. bhí treoir tugtha ag an gcoimisiún do na ballstáit gur ceart iad a choimeád faoi ghlas suas go sé mhí agus gan iad a choimeád níos mó ná ocht mí dhéag. chuir cuid de na ballstáit é sin i bhfeidhm; ballstáit eile, níor chuir siad i bhfeidhm é agus chuaigh siad thar fóir leis. tá samplaí de sin ann, agus is trua sin. an chéad rud ba cheart dúinn a rá ná gur ceart a thuiscint gur daoine daonna iad seo agus gur ceart a gcearta daonna agus a gcearta sibhialta a chosaint i gcónaí. tá sé furast an bhreatain agus an ghréig a cháineadh, ach ag an am céanna tá níos mó imirceach mídhleathach ag teacht isteach go dtí na tíortha sin ná atá go a lán tíortha eile. dá bhrí sin, tá fadhb níos mó acu. bheadh sé níos fearr gan iad a cháineadh, ach obair leo chun teacht ar réiteach féaráilte do gach uile dhuine. is dóigh liom gurb é sin an rud ba chóir dúinn a dhéanamh. freisin, tá sé ar intinn ag an gcoimisiún lámhleabhar a chur ar fáil a thabharfaidh treoir agus moltaí do na ballstáit amach anseo, agus ba chóir go gcabhródh sé sin leis an bhfadhb seo a réiteach.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – mr president, essentially this resolution is a free ride for european big business and an attempt to push through the speedy conclusion of a free trade agreement with vietnam. of course we have the obligatory nods towards human rights, access to medicine, animal welfare and the promotion of corporate social responsibility, here and there, but in essence it is a road[nbsp ]map for so-called mutual market opening, further liberalisation and privatisation ‘for fair conditions of competition to be guaranteed between vietnamese and european undertakings’. it calls for an investor-to-state dispute settlement mechanism, giving corporations the right to sue the government if it interferes with their insatiable greed for profit. it is under such a mechanism that the us oil company occidental petroleum sued the state of ecuador and was awarded usd 2.3 billion for the termination of an oil production site in the amazon. it is not corporations in vietnam that need their rights strengthened, but rather it is workers. vietnam has not ratified ilo convention 87 on freedom of association, and forced and child labour are reported to be widespread.
a uachtaráin, cosúil leis na cainteoirí eile, fáiltím roimh an gcomhaontú saorthrádála seo le vítneam. tá a lán comhaontuithe déanta againn le déanaí; chríochnaíomar ceann le ceanada, le meiriceá theas, leis an gcóiré agus mar sin de. is fiú ceann a dhéanamh le vítneam chomh maith. tá moladh mór ag dul do vítneam as ucht an dul chun cinn atá déanta aici le blianta beaga anuas. blianta ó shin, níor chualamar aon rud faoi vítneam ach cogadh – an víotchong agus mar sin de. tá dul chun cinn iontach déanta acu, agus tá a lán trádála cheana féin idir an taontas agus vítneam. i 2012, b’fhiú eur[nbsp ]23.8 billiún an trádáil sin – eur[nbsp ]18.5 billiún in iompórtáil agus eur[nbsp ]5.3 billiún in easpórtáil, agus freisin bhí infheistíocht sheachtrach dhíreach ann de níos mó ná billiún dollar. dá bhrí sin, is féidir linn dul ar aghaidh ón méid seo agus seansanna, go háirithe, a thabhairt dár dtionscal agus dár bhfiontair níos mó easpórtála a thabhairt isteach ó vítneam. tar éis sin, is féidir deiseanna a thabhairt dár ndaoine féin jabanna a fháil agus éalú as an gcúlú eacnamaíochta atá againn le blianta anois. ag an am céanna, mar a dúirt cainteoirí eile, tá sé tábhachtach go mbeadh meas i vítneam ar chearta daonna, go mbeadh saoirse ag daoine labhairt amach más mian leo agus go mbeadh saoirse do na meáin ann, ach go háirithe. ach tá súil agam gur féidir linn dul chun cinn a dhéanamh maidir leis sin chomh maith. ag deireadh na dála, is dóigh liom gur deis iontach é seo dúinn agus ba chóir glacadh leis an gcomhaontú agus tá súil agam go n-éireoidh linn é a chríochnú roimh dheireadh na bliana seo.
a uachtaráin, bhí áthas orm vótáil ar son na moltaí seo mar is dóigh liom go bhfuil siad an-tábhachtach. tá an fharraige agus a bhfuil ann mar sheans mór don aontas eorpach a bhféadfaidh sé úsáid a bhaint as chun jabanna a chruthú. mar shampla, tá seansanna againn fuinneamh a fháil ón bhfarraige nach bhfuil againn faoi láthair; fuinneamh ón taoide, fuinneamh ón ngaoth agus mar sin de. freisin, ba chóir dúinn níos mó úsáid a bhaint as an bhfarraige mar chóras taistil – tá sé sin pléite againn sa bparlaimint le cúpla bliain anuas. freisin, caithfimid aire a thabhairt dár n-iasc sa bhfarraige. tá iascairí, go háirithe sa réigiún timpeall an chósta, an-tábhachtach. tá siad ag brath ar an ngairm bheatha sin, agus dá bhrí sin ba chóir dúinn gach cúnamh a thabhairt dóibh. tá a lán díobh thíos leis faoi láthair, ach má thugaimid aire don bhfarraige is féidir linn a lán a dhéanamh dóibh. an pointe deireanach ba mhaith liom a rá ná: caithfimid aire a thabhairt don chósta. chonaiceamar i mbliana, go háirithe i mo thír féin, go ndearna na stoirmeacha, ach go háirithe, a lán damáiste don chósta agus caithfimid gach iarracht a dhéanamh chun é sin a cheartú agus chun ár dtránna agus ár gcóstaí a chosaint amach anseo ón bhfarraige agus go háirithe freisin leis an aeráid ag athrú.
a uachtaráin, arís bhí áthas orm tacaíocht a thabhairt don tuarascáil seo agus vótáil mé ar son na moltaí éagsúla. i ndáiríre, tá sé thar a bheith tábhachtach go mbeadh comórtas féaráilte le fáil ag gach uile dhuine san aontas eorpach. tá a lán daoine ann a cheapann nach amhlaidh atá. i mo cheantar féin, tá na feirmeoirí ar buile faoin gcomhcheilg a fheiceann siad atá ann idir na monarchana feola. tá siad ag iarraidh na praghsanna a choimeád síos; tá siad ag ardú na bpraghsanna do na custaiméirí agus tá siad ag cur isteach, go háirithe, ar dhíol ainmhithe ins na margaí. bhuail mé leo cúpla lá ó shin – in éineacht le jim nicholson – agus tá súil agam gur féidir leis an gcoimisiún rud éigin a dhéanamh faoin gcomhcheilg sin.
in writing. - while we generally support the objective of the proposal, we believe that the final agreement must better reflect a public health objective rather than a focus on market harmonisation. we also strongly support the principle that member states may introduce further measures to deal with the specific risks that these substances pose to citizens.
a uachtaráin, bhí an-áthas orm tacaíocht a thabhairt don tuarascáil seo inniu. cuireann sé i gcuimhne dom: nuair a toghadh mé mar fheisire cúig bliana ó shin don chéad uair riamh gur iarr ambasadóir na seapáine chuig éirinn bualadh liom agus chuir sé isteach go mór air nach raibh aon dul chun cinn á dhéanamh againn maidir leis an tuarascáil seo agus go háirithe chun comhaontú saorthrádála a chothú idir an tseapáin agus an taontas eorpach. tá dul chun cinn á dhéanamh againn anois, agus leanfaimid ar aghaidh go dtí go mbeidh sé sin críochnaithe againn le cúnamh dé. cabhróidh sé go mór linne agus cabhróidh sé le muintir na seapáine chomh maith. d’fhéadfaimis a lán a dhéanamh, agus go háirithe má thugann siad aird orainn ó thaobh cearta daonna de ba chóir go n-éireodh linn an comhaontú sin a dhéanamh go luath.
a uachtaráin, arís bhí áthas orm tacaíocht a thabhairt don tuarascáil seo agus vótáil mé le mo ghrúpa ins na vótaí go léir. bhuamar an chuid is mó díobh; chailleamar ceann nó dhó, ach tarlaíonn sé sin. ag deireadh na dála, bhí áthas orm gur ghlac 461[nbsp ]fheisire as 559 a vótáil leis an tuarascáil. dá bhrí sin is féidir linn bualadh ar aghaidh le comhaontú saorthrádála idir vítneam agus an taontas eorpach a bheith againn. tá sprioc againn é seo a bheith críochnaithe roimh dheireadh na bliana seo. is maith an sprioc é sin agus tá súil agam go n-éireoidh linn é a chur i bhfeidhm. rud amháin ba mhaith liom a rá: caithfimid a bheith ar an airdeall go háirithe faoin tslí a gcuireann an comhaontú seo isteach ar an tionscal talmhaíochta. ceapann a lán daoine go ndéanfaidh sé díobháil don tionscal talmhaíochta. dá bhrí sin, caithfimid a bheith ar an airdeall faoin rud sin; ansin ba chóir dúinn comhaontú saorthrádála a bheith againn le vítneam a bheidh an-mhaith ar fad.
a uachtaráin, aontaím le mo chomhghleacaithe ag cáineadh na ndlíthe diamhaslaithe seo mar atá siad sa phacastáin. cinnte tá siad ann le fada, fiú sular bunaíodh an stát seo i 1947. dar ndóigh, treisíodh na dlíthe seo i 1980 nuair a chuir an deachtóir leasú leis an dlí agus é ag cur pionós an bháis i bhfeidhm i leith diamhasla. in 2013, cuireadh i leith scór agus ceathrar déag go raibh siad ciontach i ndiamhasla agus faoi láthair tá sé dhuine dhéag ann atá ciontaithe chun báis agus fiche duine eile a bhfuil téarma príosúin fad saoil orthu. níl aon chiall leis seo, agus caithfimid ár ndícheall a dhéanamh chun deireadh a chur leis seo agus go háirithe chun na dlíthe sa phacastáin a bheith bord ar bord le tuiscint nua-aimseartha.
mr president, voters across europe – including ireland – sent a very clear message to their governments and to the eu in may. that message, unfortunately, has been ignored by the recent european council meeting. the austerity agenda that has been championed by european institutions has inflicted hardship on many families in ireland and throughout the member states. the european council has missed an opportunity to change direction and to abandon the policies that have created mass unemployment and mass emigration, and that have hugely increased poverty levels and caused stagnation in domestic economies. instead, the council concentrated on a carve-up of top jobs in the european institutions and ignored the impact of their austerity agenda. it is time for a new europe of equal states, working against austerity and for investment in jobs and public services. the four sinn féin meps, along with our colleagues in gue/ngl, will continue to strive for that new europe.
mr president, thank you for this opportunity. i believe that putting mr juncker in this position completely and utterly ignores the results of the european elections. this was meant to be a community; it is no longer a community. i was a supporter of the european union, but since we had bank debt socialised and put on our shoulders to the tune of eur 70 billion, the irish people have woken up to the fact that this union is no longer a union of the people. it is a union for bankers and big business, but certainly not for the smaller person. as i said, i was a supporter of the european union, but no more. when the act of union between britain and ireland took place, lord byron said the following: ‘there is only one relationship between a large state and small state, and that is the relationship between a boa constrictor and its prey’. i did not think i would ever come in here and say that, but sadly this union has proven that we are for kicking, not for anything else so it seems..... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, the transatlantic trade and investment partnership has the potential to damage our environment and devastate the rights of workers, producers and consumers. one of my primary concerns is for the agricultural sector in countries like ireland. it is clear at this stage already that the unique standards and production systems that apply on irish family farms, for example, will be compromised in negotiations. irish farmers are rightly demanding that their livelihoods and their communities are protected. one of the reasons sinn féin rejected the lisbon treaty was because of the loss of ireland’s veto on such matters. so there is a responsibility on the irish government and on meps who sit in this chamber and who campaigned in favour of the lisbon treaty in ireland on the promise that it would create jobs to stand with sinn féin and progressive voices across the european union in opposition to the ttip. the european commission must hear this message today: we will not allow the sell-out of irish and european farmers for the sake of something that is a bad deal for everyone else.
madam president, this is a work in progress but as you can hear from the range of views in this house we are very vigilant on the possible outcome. truthfully i would like to have heard a little bit more about another deal, the canadian deal, which i understand is still being negotiated. commissioner, perhaps you might give us a short update as to what is happening there. i have a specific issue around beef which i think you are aware of, and it might be helpful to the house to hear an update. but this morning we spoke about growth and jobs and a good ttip can deliver both growth and jobs for europe and the european union. that is why we should stick with the process but also acknowledge that there are concerns around certain sectors that need to be acknowledged. you have given some reassurances on food safety standards and i welcome that, but that must be copper-fastened into any potential agreement. but on the beef sector again, the issues are sensitive, not so much around that particular point, because you have clarified the hormones issue, but around quantities and types of cuts that will be allowed in. if you are not careful there, you will decimate europe’s beef production capacity and that would be a step too far and a real concern for this house.
mr president, i have listened to the debate from the outset and i have listened with a certain amount of bemusement. firstly, most people, while sharing various concerns regarding ttip, are in favour of the process taking place. others are against it from the outset. they seem to be against ttip – i would say perhaps against the usa rather than ttip per se. why would you oppose the opportunity to create two million jobs in europe, 0.5% of gdp and eur 550 per family per year? yet this is what they want to do. we all have concerns about ttip regarding agriculture, data protection, standards, etc. but that is what negotiation is all about. i say let the negotiations continue, then we can make up our minds based on fact not fiction, reality not perception. let us get on with it.
madam president, there are many positive and negative aspects to ttip but in my one minute i shall just deal with just one issue, and that is the inclusion of investor-state dispute settlements (isds) in the agreement. isds are viewed with extreme concern by many citizens including myself. in 2012, 62 cases were investigated and in 2013 the figure was 57. this clearly indicates that the concerns of citizens and governments are well founded. in your response to a recent question which i submitted to you, commissioner, you replied that genuine regulatory action cannot be successfully challenged. surely, commissioner, our competition and internal market rules should ensure genuine regulatory action by member states. i believe that isds are not needed by two functioning and predictable legal systems. you also replied that any regulation passed in the public interest cannot be successfully challenged, but who is to decide what is in the public interest – an arbitration tribunal? surely that is not acceptable. concerns ranging from gmos to fracking have been legitimately raised in the context of isds, and if the commission ignores them you run the risk of failure. the possibilities of ttip are too important for that.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, as we start a new term with parliament and the commission we are faced with an impasse from the last parliament and we have a responsibility to find a solution. we simply must find compromise with the council and, equally, the council must find compromise with parliament otherwise we have a dysfunctional system. furthermore just as we members of the european parliament nailed our colours to the mast when we voted either for or against this directive, i believe member states who are part of the blocking minority need to explain to their citizens, both women and men, why they are blocking a maternity leave directive that would help guarantee equality of treatment for mothers and babies across the eu. i totally oppose the withdrawal of this directive and i am pleased that the council will work to ensure its adoption. personally i support the proposal for 20 weeks’ paid leave. after all, that is the norm in this parliament. are we saying that other women deserve less? indeed this directive will support many women who are lower paid and not in permanent and pensionable jobs. this directive also protects pregnant women against discrimination and helps to ensure the health and safety of mothers and newborns. it also makes a huge contribution to achieving a core principle of eu policy: that is the achievement of gender equality and the elimination of the gender pay gap. but as i said earlier, we need to find compromises. perhaps there could be some flexibility in the 20-week period of leave, only in that there could be some interchange between maternity and paternity leave to cater for national preferences, and perhaps some flexibility as to the time taken before and after birth. also, perhaps some lead time towards a 20-week fully paid maternity leave. but there should be no question that this directive would lower standards in member states that already have higher standards. it is crucial that we achieve compromises on these issues, otherwise it languishes in a sort of limbo and many pregnant women in the eu will not have the possibility of a reasonable time frame of paid maternity leave and strong protection in their jobs when pregnant or breastfeeding.
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on youth employment (2014/2713(rsp)).
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, i too would like to welcome my colleague mrs mcguinness to the chair; i wish you well. before the election youth unemployment was the biggest issue for many groups and unfortunately it still is: with 7.5 million young europeans between the ages of 15 and 24 not in employment, education or training, and 6.8 million in the same situation between the ages of 25 and 30. at european level we have a number of instruments. we have the youth guarantee, we have the social fund, we have the youth employment initiative, the quality framework for traineeships, the european alliance for apprenticeships and of course the programme for employment and social innovation. i suppose in many ways it is too early to really assess the progress made by most of these instruments – for example the youth guarantee or the youth employment initiative – but i think it would be fair to say that so far progress is slow and uneven. in this context i think we need a renewed effort from the commission to encourage member states to immediately set about the implementation of the youth guarantee. i mean, after all, this is supposed to be a flagship project for european union policy and if we are really serious about its implementation we need to take action. obviously i believe youth unemployment needs to be a specific objective within the european semester and also measures to combat youth unemployment. i am happy that it is included in the country-specific recommendations and the national reform projects and that must remain a priority. i believe too that the youth guarantee should be extended to young people under 30. however we also have to deal with the supply side as well as the demand side and in this context we need to ensure easier access to financing and simpler rules for setting up new businesses. however in many countries, like my own, ireland, many smes are already overburdened with debt. it is not simply a question of easier access to finance – small businesses do not want to take on new borrowings and there is a problem with adequate working capital – so they are caught in a bind. some mechanisms have to be found to deal with the overhang of debt, otherwise many smes will struggle and are doomed to fail.
ms harkin, thank you for your kind remarks.
madam president, almost a quarter of young people today in ireland are unemployed and the figure would be much higher if we took into account those who have been forced to emigrate. those who do manage to find work are often expected to accept precarious or part-time work which suits the profits of employers but little else. they are faced with the dire option of emigration or unemployment and many young people are being utterly exploited in the name of so-called ‘flexible working conditions’. we must provide our youth with real options for their career and properly paid apprenticeships which give an equal benefit to both parties. if we are to address youth unemployment seriously, then we need a properly considered and funded youth guarantee which will protect our young people against the worst effects of this crisis.
mr president, i believe that the youth guarantee scheme will be very important in tackling youth unemployment. reforming our education and training systems is a very important element of that programme – that has been mentioned by the commissioner here this morning – and i think it is something we really need to concentrate on. in a recent survey of eight european countries, one third of employers said that the lack of skills among young people is causing major businesses problems in the form of cost, quality and time. almost 30% of employers reported that a lack of skills was a major reason they did not fill their vacancies. and employers from countries with the highest youth unemployment reported the greatest problems due to skill shortages. youth unemployment is not a new problem for europe and we should note it. in 1995 it stood at 21% and since then it has not gone below 15%, so it is an institutional issue. a critical reason that youth do not get the skills that employers need is that education providers, young people and employers do not understand one another. they operate in parallel universes and they rarely interact. so we need to change the structure of how we teach young people skills. we need to focus on giving them the skills that the market needs, and that they are able to respond to what employers really need so that we can be sure that our young people have sustainable jobs. i would ask the commissioner to ensure that this is a focus not just in my country but across europe as well. it is an institutional problem and it is something that really needs to be tackled.
a uachtaráin, d’aimsigh rialtais an aontais eorpaigh na billiúin ar mhaithe leis na bainc ach ní féidir leo airgead a aimsiú chun infheistíocht a dhéanamh i ndaoine. caithfear taighde a dhéanamh ar infheistíocht i réimsí tábhachtacha cosúil le hoideachas, agus oiliúint. tá na rialtais tar éis diultú go rialta do na hacmhainní riachtanacha seo a chur ar fáil, ag malartú na bhfocal agus ghaois an choimisiúin. d’fhág an creatlach airgeadais ilbhliantúil poll de eur 23.4 billiún i mbuiséad an aontais eorpaigh. tá an t-airgead caite cheana féin. anois tá ar na ballstáit, na réigiúin agus páirtithe leasmhara eile fanacht ar íocaíocht. ní amháin go bhfuil tionchar ag an moill ar na híocaíochtaí seo, ar chumas airgeadais na mballstát, go háirithe iad siúd atá i gcónaí i gcruachás maidir le cúrsaí airgid agus srianta sóisialta, ach cuireann sé isteach chomh maith ar chur i bhfeidhm go leor tograí an aontais eorpaigh. táimíd ag cur clár i bhfeidhm atá níos leithne i scóip ná riamh cheana féin ach i ndairíre atá i bhfad níos lú. is iad na daoine óga atá dífhostaithe, na mic léinn, ollscoileanna, fiontair bheaga in éirinn, sa ghréig, sa phortaingéil, sa spáinn agus in áiteanna eile atá ag fulaingt. caithfidh an chomhairle eorpach agus an coimisiún a bheith freagrach agus tá sé thar a bheith in am dóibh aghaidh a thabhairt ar na dúshláin seo go dáiríribh agus go tapa. agus ar nóta beag amháin is mór an onóir dom gur féidir liom mo theanga dhúchais a úsáid anseo inniu.
thar ceann an ghrúpa ppe. – a uachtaráin, tá áthas orm go bhfuil seans agam labhairt ar an ábhar truamhéalach seo, go háirithe mar a bhaineann sé le mo thír féin, éire, agus go háirithe í gcás ibrahim halawa. ibrahim halawa was born in ireland 18 years ago. last summer, he travelled to egypt with his three sisters for a holiday, and they got caught up in the mass demonstrations following the ousting of president morsi. they were arrested and thrown into prison, like many others, and were kept in inhumane conditions. ibrahim’s three sisters were released after three months and are now back in dublin but he has been detained ever since without charge, and is still being kept in inhumane conditions. there was supposed to be a mass trial yesterday but it was postponed. i call on the high representative and the european external action service in egypt, as a matter of urgency, to do everything they can to get this young man released so that he can go back to dublin, pursue his studies, as he wishes to do, and become an engineer. he is no threat to anybody. i call for urgent action.
madam president, just like my colleague, seán kelly, i would like to raise the issue of the continuing imprisonment of the 18 year-old irish citizen ibrahim halawa. indeed his trial, due to be held yesterday, was postponed. caught up with his three sisters in a disturbance in a mosque last august on a visit to cairo, he has been detained without trial since. and by detaining ibrahim halawa the egyptian authorities totally contravene the terms of the eu-egypt association agreement of last june. this agreement states that respect for human rights and democratic principles constitutes an essential element of the agreement and in this context his detention without trial and for a prolonged period clearly violates the terms of this agreement. the fact that ibrahim’s three sisters, who were arrested with him, were released following representations from the irish government clearly indicates they were not engaged in any activity that could justify his detention. i am therefore calling on the high representative and the commission to demand the release of ibrahim, and indeed other journalists who have been detained without trial, and for the cessation of the mass trials. in these trials the rights of the individuals are ignored in a process which has no basis in human rights or acceptable judicial procedure.
in writing. - since the onset of the economic crisis youth unemployment has become a serious problem in the eu where 23.6 % of our youth are now unemployed, which is almost double the adult rate. in ireland our youth unemployment rate is 23.7 %; this, combined with the mass emigration, equates to a lost generation. a stronger commitment and improved monitoring are needed from member states to improve the situation of young people. jobs are not just about money for our youth, they are also about dignity and self-worth. our young people need access to quality jobs that respect their rights, including the right to stability and security through a job that has a decent and fair wage, social protection and enables a secure life of dignity and autonomy. the youth guarantee needs to be to be monitored effectively and we need to be updated regularly on its progress.
in writing. - prolonging military conflict in gaza will only spiral into further violence and the eu must fully assert its influence to bring it to an end. i condemn the rocket attacks into israeli territory but also the disproportionate use of military force by the israeli authorities. the spirals of violence and retaliation that periodically emerge in the region lead only to the loss of innocent lives. the best, long-term path to peace and security for both sides is a comprehensive agreement for a two-state solution that allows for a viable palestinian state. israelʼs continued settlement expansion in the occupied territories only serves to undermine all the fragile work done to reach that outcome. through its close trade and cooperation ties with israel, the eu can and must exert more pressure on israel towards a sustainable, long-term solution. the alternative is to keep paying for essential infrastructure and humanitarian aid in the wake of every outburst of violence, while the israeli-palestinian conflict continues to fester and claim innocent lives against an increasingly dangerous and unpredictable middle-eastern backdrop.
mr president, thank you for your excellent chairing of today’s session. i think the last speaker was somewhat unfair to members who may not have any alternative to getting a plane at this particular time. his statement was too general, particularly in the case of members from peripheral countries who may not have a choice.
madam president, the ban imposed by the russian federation on agricultural products from the eu is a very worrying development. it reflects the failures of both russian and european diplomacy that have impacted most on the people of ukraine but will now undoubtedly be felt by farmers and businesses across the regions. the eu’s agri-food sector is in crisis and these sanctions will mean that those already struggling to survive will no longer be able to do so. questions that therefore need to be addressed this evening by the commission include: what further measures will the commission take to ensure that our small family farmers do not pay the price for political decisions they did not ask for; will the crisis reserve cover their losses; and will compensation be put in place for scenarios where there is a long-term impact on farmers beyond the sanctions period? small farmers now need a friend in the european commission, not a bureaucracy which fails to act while their livelihoods suffer.
mr president, i would like to refer to a long-running dispute involving a number of irish construction companies which have had a very difficult time with the polish authorities in the last few years. this dispute goes back to 2012. in excess of eur 250 million has been lost. many hundreds of jobs in ireland have been lost through poor procurement procedure and poor contract procedure, and this was also the subject of a letter by five other european union countries to the polish authorities. i am looking for three things: firstly i would like the polish roads authority to engage with the complainants in a fair and honest way; secondly, i am asking the polish authorities to enter immediately into independent mediation to resolve this dispute; and thirdly i would ask the commission, in the presence of one of the commissioners here this evening, at the very least to consider this matter more closely. we are talking about eu funds, eu structural funds, the funds of the eu taxpayer, and we need to ensure that those funds are spent properly, with proper procurement procedures. there are issues in this case that need to be resolved.
mr president, 31 august 2014 last marked the 20th anniversary of the ira’s cessation of military activity in ireland – the pivotal moment in the irish peace process – and, despite early setbacks, an inclusive talks process led to the historic good friday agreement which created the space for those of different aspirations to strive for them through peaceful means. it was this inclusive dialogue that led to meaningful progress. in recent times, the principle of engaging in such dialogue has been found wanting within political unionism, and both the irish government and the british government, but especially the latter, have largely disengaged from the process. eu institutions which have supported the irish peace process need to be aware that flag protests, the breakdown of the haas negotiations and the walkout by unionists from all-party talks some weeks ago threaten the political institutions that underpin the peace process in ireland. i ask people here to encourage political unionism and the irish and british governments to re-engage in meaningful all-party talks to ensure that all outstanding elements of the good friday and subsequent agreements are implemented in full, so that the irish peace process can continue to provide an example to conflicts around the world.
mr president, in june 2012 the eu council agreed to break the link between banks and sovereigns. the summit statement spoke of the euro group examining the situation of the irish financial sector in the context of using the esm to retrospectively recapitalise irish banks. subsequently, there was some roll-back on this agreement, but just one month later a joint statement from enda kenny and angela merkel said that ireland was a special case. jean-claude juncker said earlier this year: ‘i think there must be some degree of retroactivity’ in the esm, ‘otherwise it will lose most of its sense’. yet to this day we have made no progress on this issue and, in case you did not know, eurostat confirms that ireland, which has less than 1% of the population of the eu, carried 43% of the net cost of the banking crisis. we now have banking union therefore the eu cannot renege on its promises. the esm must be used to retrospectively recapitalise irish banks – otherwise we will have been betrayed by our partners.
mr president, an eu and irish citizen, 17-year-old ibrahim halawa, was arrested in august 2013 amongst clashes between pro- and anti-morsi supporters while on holiday in egypt. one year on, he is still languishing in an egyptian jail with no charges brought against him. no book of evidence has been submitted and ibrahim has had to endure horrific conditions including physical abuse. both amnesty international and the human rights organisation reprieve have investigated ibrahim’s case and have found no justification for his incarceration. on 12 august ibrahim’s case was due to be heard as part of the notorious mass trials which take place without legal representation. due to the hundreds of defendants presented before the judge in one go, he walked out in protest, leaving a teenager jailed without charge, unable to finish his final exams at school and progress to further education with his friends. so i am calling on the eu to explicitly request his release and i will be seeking a meeting with the new high representative as soon as possible to ensure that everything that can be done at an eu level is being done.
mr president, small, regional airports have a vital role to play in the economic development of their regions. i would like the new commission-designate to focus on those airports and to ensure that investment is provided so that they can continue to be the engines of the regions in which they are located and can contribute to an efficient and effective transport system that allows regions to take full advantage of the internal market and to trade on a global scale. eu enlargement means there are greater travel distances within the union, so it is more important than ever that regions are served by airports. we also need to promote global accessibility: it is well known that, when companies are locating to or investing in an area, international accessibility is very important and the availability of a local airport is key to their location requirements. as the union enlarges, tourism is another area where we can create great employment opportunities. i would like the commission, in its next term, to ensure investment in our airports ... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, i support the measures as outlined by the commissioner and also, of course, the sanctions. the problem with sanctions is that they can be disproportionate and can affect some member states more than others, particularly different sections of society such as agriculture. i would ask the commission to look beyond sanctions, particularly at major events like conferences, world cups etc. fixed for russia, and set a date by which, if we do not have a resolution to these problems, they should be moved out of russia. in that way only russia would suffer. there would be no need for boycotts – because if we continue like this there will calls for boycotts – and i think a firm message would be given to russia that there are other ways than sanctions to make them hurt, to bring them to the table and to ensure that international law is observed. i would ask the commissioners would they consider bringing that to discussions. i think it would perhaps be more effective than sanctions in the long term.
in writing. – although i in substance support the non-discrimination principle in the context of employment, i have voted against this report in order to voice my rejection of the undemocratic way this file was brought forward – without any substantial or public debate in committee or plenary. an agreement which was at the very root of the escalation of the current eu-ukraine-russia conflict should not be rushed through parliament without any proper political scrutiny. pushing through an association agreement at this time only serves to escalate the conflict in an increasingly fragile situation. europe’s citizens are already paying the price for this conflict, and this would only see it intensify. for the sake of our farmers and others who are paying the price for the deepening conflict between russia and ukraine, we cannot vote for this association agreement’s progression in any form.
in writing. - although i in substance support the non-discrimination principle in the context of employment, i have voted against this report in order to voice my rejection of the undemocratic way this file was brought forward – without any substantial or public debate in committee or plenary. an agreement which was at the very root of the escalation of the current eu-ukraine-russia conflict should not be rushed through parliament without any proper political scrutiny. pushing through an association agreement at this time only serves to escalate the conflict in an increasingly fragile situation. europe’s citizens are already paying the price for this conflict, and this would only see it intensify. for the sake of our farmers and others who are paying the price for the deepening conflict between russia and ukraine, we cannot vote for this association agreement’s progression in any form.
in writing. - although i in substance support the non-discrimination principle in the context of employment, i have voted against this report in order to voice my rejection of the undemocratic way this file was brought forward – without any substantial or public debate in committee or plenary. an agreement which was at the very root of the escalation of the current eu-ukraine-russia conflict should not be rushed through parliament without any proper political scrutiny. pushing through an association agreement at this time only serves to escalate the conflict in an increasingly fragile situation. europe’s citizens are already paying the price for this conflict, and this would only see it intensify. for the sake of our farmers and others who are paying the price for the deepening conflict between russia and ukraine, we cannot vote for this association agreement’s progression in any form.
in writing. – although i in substance support the non-discrimination principle in the context of employment, i have voted against this report in order to voice my rejection of the undemocratic way this file was brought forward – without any substantial or public debate in committee or plenary. an agreement which was at the very root of the escalation of the current eu-ukraine-russia conflict should not be rushed through parliament without any proper political scrutiny. pushing through an association agreement at this time only serves to escalate the conflict in an increasingly fragile situation. europe’s citizens are already paying the price for this conflict, and this would only see it intensify. for the sake of our farmers and others who are paying the price for the deepening conflict between russia and ukraine, we cannot vote for this association agreement’s progression in any form.
the next item is the debate on the presentation by the council of its position on the draft general budget – 2015 financial year (2014/2719(rsp)). i wish to inform colleagues that for this item we do not have a catch-the-eye procedure and there are no blue cards for these debates, so it is very much just the speakers who are on the list who will be contributing to our debate.
the debate is closed. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the debate on the council and commission statements on structural shortage of payments in the horizon 2020 budget (2014/2839 (rsp)).
a uachtaráin, caithfidh mé a rá go bhfuil an-imní orm maidir leis an dréachtbhuiséad do 2015 mar go bhfuil níos mó ciorruithe le teacht. tá an chuid is mó de na ciorruithe ag teacht ó theideal 1a agus horizon 2020 agus téann sé seo i gcoinne gealltanas a thug an chomhairle chun infheistíocht a dhéanamh i bpostanna agus fás agus tógann sé ón mbunaidhm chun infheistiú a dhéanamh i ndaoine. maidir le horizon 2020, ní féidir glacadh leis an ngearradh de 41.4 % go háirithe agus é ag cur tograí cosúil le marie curie i mbaol agus é chomh lárnach i dtaobh an idéalachais don taighde. is sárú é an moladh seo den chreat airgeadais ilbhliantúil 2014-2020. tá an neamhshuim atá léirithe ag an gcoimisiún i dtaobh na n-iascairí scannalach. dʼfhéadfá a rá go bhfuil mórfhaillí taispeánta agus is náireach agus is uafásach iad na ciorruithe atá molta sa doiciméad seo. tugadh mandáid dúinn ó mhuintir na heorpa agus tháinig teachtaireacht shoiléir uathu agus is é sin go gcaithfear bogadh ó na beartais déine. dá mbainfí úsáid as gnáthchiall agus cleachtas maith gnó bheadh sé soiléir go gcaithfear infheistíocht a dhéanamh chun iarmhéid bainc sláintiúil a chruthú. tá pionóis á ghearradh orainn mar gheall ar bhotúin ón am a chuaigh thart leis an mbuiséad neamhréalaíoch seo.
madam president, rarely have i heard such a clear explanation of the state we are in as in the commissioner’s speech. madam commissioner, i would like to thank you for that clarity today. then i listened to mr etheridge, and his position is also clear. the problem with your position, mr etheridge, is that you fail to see that if we pool resources for research, we avoid duplication, and we should get much better results. your narrow-minded approach unfortunately does a disservice to your constituents, as it does to mine. this debate has failed to acknowledge the importance of european solidarity. that is why we have a european budget. member states benefit because they are members of the european union and the money that is contributed, though large in its sum, is insignificant compared with the national budgets. i know we will continue to disagree with my good friend in seat 281, but i think the point is well made. we spend better if we do it collectively.
madam president, ban ki-moon’s un climate change summit later this month should be an opportunity to provide a much needed refocusing for political leaders across the world to pledge serious climate commitments. unfortunately, however, given past experience, i have serious doubts that the right actions will be taken at the right time; time which we are letting run through our hands. as the global poor suffer from a climate crisis not of their doing, developed regions such as europe must take the lead on this issue and it is regrettable, therefore, that the european commission has not adopted a more ambitious position. europe’s political leaders have to start listening to scientists, environmental groups and people’s movements that will be on the streets across the world this sunday, including in my own native town of dublin, the people’s picnic, and stop listening to the scare stories of lost profits spread by big business who will decry anything which requires them to take account for their actions which harm the environment.
a uachtaráin, fáiltím roimh an gcomhréiteach cuimsitheach trádála agus eacnamaíochta seo idir ceanada agus an taontas agus go háirithe ba mhaith liom an coimisinéir de gucht a mholadh as ucht an dea-obair a rinne sé agus a oifigigh agus freisin ba chóir dúinn cathaoirleach ar an toscaireacht idir ceanada agus an taontas a mholadh. is é sin philip bradbourn. bhí sé ina chathaoirleach ar an gcoiste ar feadh cúig bliana. mar a deirim is dóigh liom go bhfuil toradh maith faighte againn agus seasfaidh sé sin an fód amach anseo. concluding an agreement with canada makes ample sense because canada, of all non-european countries, is probably closest to us in terms of culture, language, law and politics and, while this agreement took five long years, i think we have reached a reasonable agreement at the end of the day. there are difficulties, which have been highlighted, but on balance we can support it, while at the same time expressing our reservations. for that reason i have written to the commission to express my concern on the treatment of beef products under the quota system for non-hormone-treated high-quality canadian beef exported to the eu. i welcome the recognition that beef is a sensitive sector. our beef sector is characterised by small-scale, environment-friendly production on permanent grassland, in an extensive manner based on the family farm model, which is a unique european social structure predominant in my constituency of ireland south as in other areas in europe. i believe the commission was not alert to the distinction between high-quality cuts of beef, such as steaks, and lower-quality cuts. it is my assertion that more restrictive quotas should be placed on the high-quality cuts, as the current quota plan could permit canadian exports to flood eu markets with high-quality steak at sensitive times of the year such as the barbecue season, undermining the eu sector. nevertheless, i am prepared to vote in favour of this agreement because of one redeeming factor – the review clause. if, as i expect, there are difficulties, they can be reviewed and this can be taken into account when it comes to negotiating the transatlantic trade and investment partnership (ttip) agreement with the usa, because the ttip could not be modelled on what is here in relation to beef. that would multiply the problems seven times over, as has been outlined in the study carried out by parliament’s committee on agriculture. finally i just want to say that the details of this arrived in my in-box on 25 august. perhaps i am privileged. i am not sure.
mr president, in my one minute i just wish to deal with the inclusion of isds in the proposed trade deal. commissioner, my bottom line question is this: why is it necessary in countries that have highly developed and well-understood legal systems to include extra mechanisms for resolving disputes? but, as you know, i am not the only one who has this concern. over 150 000 citizens responded to your consultation because they, like me, are concerned among other things about the fact that an arbitration panel, which will make final decisions, will not be subject to the ecj, for example. jean-claude juncker said – and i quote – that he would not accept that the jurisdiction of courts in eu member states is limited by special regimes for investor disputes. finally, in 2011 the parliament warned you in a resolution that a state-to-state dispute settlement mechanism and the use of local judicial remedies are the most appropriate tools to address investment disputes. commissioner, the trade deal has many positives. do not be responsible for losing it. before it is initialled, delete isds.
mr president, in the context of access to life-saving medicines in europe, shortages are caused by a number of factors. they are caused by supply issues, they are caused by production issues and, most certainly, they are caused by affordability issues. i intend to concentrate on the affordability issues. the problem is particularly acute in countries undergoing austerity programmes, largely because of the cuts to public services across the board, which of course limit access to healthcare and life-saving medicines. the commission itself, in its country-specific recommendations, tells us that limitations on access to healthcare may weigh disproportionately on the more vulnerable sections of society, the people who rely disproportionately on public services. in my own country, ireland, the cuts in health expenditure between 2009 and 2011 were of the order of 17% and, according to social justice ireland, the cuts in 2013 amounted to 5%. that comes to more than one-fifth of the healthcare budget, and the impact on access to healthcare and life-saving medicines has been huge. lastly, i want to add my voice to the long list of organisations, including the european consumer organisation age platform, and the standing committee of european doctors, asking commissioner juncker to revisit his decision to move medicinal products and health technologies into the portfolio of the commissioner for the internal market. that commissioner’s mandate, of course, is to promote the competitiveness of the industry, whereas the main driver of eu policies on medicine and health technologies should be the promotion of health and patient safety.
mr president, i do not have the same pessimistic and negative view as the previous speaker in terms of the future of the euro. i believe that the euro will succeed and that what is essential at this particular time is to do two things for the eurozone economy, and especially for the 28 member states of the european union. we must stick to the targets we have set in terms of stabilising the eurozone system, and it is crucially important that we continue to reduce deficits no matter where they are across the system. i come from a country that has seen enormous reductions in the amount of available expenditure and increases in tax because of the financial crisis, yet in ireland the gdp growth is at one of the highest levels across the eurozone system. so even countries that go through enormous adjustments can actually have a much more competitive and productive model of economic growth into the future, if that is pursued. we need to do three things. firstly, i believe it is crucially important that we continue to reduce tax on work within the european union. it is a madness policy. if you have 11% unemployment and you continue to tax people out of existence, that makes no sense. secondly, we need to get business lending going again. it is crucially important – in a situation in which investment has been reduced by 20% in europe in the last five years, according to mario draghi – that we get business investment going again. in ireland in the last quarter, 50% of businesses were declined business lending opportunity from banks. that has to change. thirdly, i very much agree with the commission proposal in terms of capital market unity right the way across europe. it is very important that we get on with that task, commissioner, ensuring that new funding opportunities are provided in non-bank ways. i shall leave with one more remark. 60% of the new jobs created in the usa since the start of this crisis came from businesses that had not even been created before 2008. the future for the eurozone system and the future for europe is based on strong development and growth.
mr zarianopoulos , thank you for that point of order and we will take note of your comments. the debate is closed. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the debate on the council and commission statements on roll-out of the european youth initiative (2014/2846(rsp)). this is an important debate and i already see many who would like to catch the eye. we will take note of all of the requests and we would ask our blue-card speakers kindly to respect the rule of 30 seconds for a question, and indeed 30 seconds for the response.
i am going to stop blue cards from this point on in the debate because we have 25 colleagues who wish to catch the eye at the end of the debate, so no more blue cards. we will continue to take names for catch the eye but realistically we are going to run out of time.
madam president, youth unemployment is a scandal, and we have been slow to react in the eu. but at least now we have a programme which is specifically designed to respond positively to youth unemployment. 6 billion plus for a youth guarantee over 28 member states is not enough – not nearly enough; the ilo has said we need 21 billion. but at least we are encouraging member states to frontload and to spend that money in 2014 and 2015. so i suppose the question is: are we making progress? we have a document from the commission: a first-findings report which looks at a number of pilot projects that have the potential to make positive changes, particularly in the way school-to-work transition is managed and how youth employment services are delivered to young people. these programmes are providing short-term relief in many cases, and core to the approach is the partnership approach, where the schools, the ngos, the employers, the government services and the young people themselves are included. indeed, we have one of these pilot programmes in ireland, in ballymun in dublin, where a local partnership has been set up under the umbrella of a national partnership. they are dealing with 316 young jobseekers, 80% of whom at this point have accepted an offer of work experience, employment or further education and training. it is a start: it is a small start by the eu, and member states now have to step up to the plate. finally, i want to wish commissioner andor well in his retirement. as we say in ireland, his heart was in the right place.
madam president, youth unemployment in ireland and across the eu is having serious repercussions which are not only having impacts now but will have social ramifications for years to come. those who do manage to find some work – the so-called lucky ones – are increasingly forced to accept unpaid internships or precarious work such as zero-hour contracts. another supposed option offered to our youth in ireland is emigration, which, of course, is not a choice. those who did not cause the crisis – the young – are certainly having to pay for it. by failing to allocate the funds recommended by the ilo, the youth guarantee scheme is a guarantee only on paper. six months from its roll-out in january, even angela merkel had to admit that it had been a failure in truly tackling the problem. it has provided little more than nice sound bites for certain politicians who want to appear to be acting on the issue while in reality doing very little. i would like to see a full review of the guarantee. countries such as my own – ireland – are using it merely as a box-ticking exercise instead of a genuine solution to a very real problem.
madam president, in ireland we have introduced some structural changes, establishing education and training boards and offices – one-stop shops – where young people can go and be supported to ensure that they get relevant education and training. the success of the pilot scheme in ballymun, referred to previously by ms harkin, is due to the fact that there has been a partnership and that we have engaged with employers and education providers. that is essential in ensuring the success of the youth guarantee scheme. without employers’ input we are not providing young people with the skills that they need to gain meaningful employment. i think this is critical and i would ask the commissioner, as i have asked him previously in such a debate, to focus on that aspect in order to ensure that the necessary reforms are in place. in 1995 in europe, 21% of our youth were unemployed, and since then we have had pretty high youth unemployment of around 10-15%. so the problem is not just related to the recent financial crisis: it is also related to the fact that our education provision does not sufficiently match the needs of industry or provide young people with the skills that they need to gain employment. that is a critical issue right across europe, and in my own country especially. we can speak to employers and, you know yourself, commissioner, the criticism that these employers are not getting the skills they need and that they have to look outside europe. so this is also about competitiveness. i wish you well in moving on to your next venture but i would ask you to ensure that the needs of young people, in particular, are addressed and that work to give them the skills they require to gain meaningful employment continues.
colleagues, we now have a list of speakers for catch the eye. we have over 25 colleagues who want to take the floor and clearly i cannot accommodate everyone because time is running out for our debate. i would ask for your patience. i will now take speakers from each of the groups in order. catch-the-eye procedure
the debate is closed. written statements (rule 162)
rapóirtéir. - a uachtaráin, de bharr an chúlaithe eacnamaíochta agus an strus atá ar oibrithe i láthair na huaire is coiste thar a bheith tábhachtach é an coigeartú don domhandú. ciste eorpach um choigeartú don domhandú sna ballstáit atá ag déileáil le srianta tromchúiseacha sóisialta, eacnamaíochta agus airgeadais a chur i ngluaiseacht. taispeánann sé chomh maith go bhfuil géarghá ann cabhair a spreagadh chun féinriail agus sorochtaineacht ag leibhéal réigiúnach a chur i bhfeidhm chun réiteach áitiúil a chumasú ag leibhéal réigiúnach maidir le haon chás a thagann faoi raon an chiste eorpaigh um choigeartú don domhandú. fáiltím go mbeidh níos mó comhordú agus comhoibriú ann, agus scagadh eolais, ionas go gcruthóidh sé an comhoibriú seo idir na ballstáit agus na réigiúin. mar sin, a chomhghleacaithe, impím oraibh tacaíocht a thabhairt don leasú seo agus glacadh leis.
in writing. – i support this report and the need to have a european instrument to assist redundant workers. i am glad that parliament fully supported the setting up of the egf as part of the mff for 2014 to 2020. it is important to ease the administrative burden for member states by simplifying the application process and to monitor the implementation of the fund to ensure maximum value is obtained for current and future applications.
in writing. – i support the need to have a european instrument to assist redundant workers. i am glad that parliament fully supported the setting up of the egf as part of the mff for 2014 to 2020. i voted in favour of the nutriart application and support the use of the fund for the 508 people made redundant due to the global economic crisis. in particular i fully support the greek government’s decision to co-finance personalised services for 505 youths under 30 also living in the regions that were impacted by these redundancies.
in writing. – i support the need to have a european instrument to assist redundant workers. i am glad that the parliament fully supported the setting up of the egf as part of the mff for 2014 to 2020. i supported this report to grant eur 960 000 for 280 workers made redundant from the food and drink services industry in the aragón region. according to the spanish authorities the sectoral index of business activity declined by 8.26 % during the period 2010-2012 so the use of the egf will be essential in retraining and reintegration into employment for these workers.
mr president, i hope that this evening’s debate sends out a strong signal of support to the people of iraq and syria. this is about torture, oppression, murder, domination and a systematic attempt to extinguish religious minorities. we are key players in the region. we have a responsibility to work with the new iraqi government in all ways possible. islamic state (isis) represents a threat not just to iraq but also to the entire region. clearly they will stop at nothing in fomenting their brand of fundamentalism, which is rotten to the core. defeating isis is also about defeating those brainwashed young european citizens who participate as radical fighters in a part of the world that they know nothing about. i believe that a new opportunity exists to forge a better relationship with iran. despite obvious past differences between iran and the european union, and iran and the united states, i believe we have a common objective now in attempting to destroy isis and in helping the iraqi government to rebuild their country. iran is a key player in the region. the new president of iran has repeatedly said that he wants to cooperate with the eu in fighting the violence and the extremism of isis. iran’s border with iraq is more than 1700 km long. iran has officially welcomed the formation of the new iraqi government and backs the principle of iraqi unity as a means of stabilising security in the region. in short, i believe that a new opportunity for détente exists between iraq and the west.
a uachtaráin, tar éis dosaen bliain d'aighneas cheapamar go raibh rudaí ag dul i bhfeabhas sa bhurúin ó thosach na míosa seo. ba léir go raibh siad ar an mbóthar daonlathach. ach anois, le toghcháin ag teacht an bhliain seo chugainn is léir freisin go bhfuil an rialtas chun gach rud a dhéanamh chun iad féin a choimeád i gcumhacht. níl sé seo ceart. agus is eiseamláir an rud atá ag tarlú do claver mbonimpa ar cad atá ar siúl. ní ceart go mbeadh sé i bpríosún; caithfimid brú a chur ar na húdaráis ann é a ligean saor; agus go háirithe a chinntiú go mbeidh toghchán oscailte féaráilte acu an bhliain seo chugainn. táimid ag tabhairt a lán airgid don tír bheag seo: eur 432 mhilliún idir seo agus 2020. caithfimid brú a chur orthu a bheith féaráilte agus an fear maith seo a ligean saor.
thar ceann an ghrúpa ppe. – a uachtaráin, tá gaol againn leis an mbanglaidéis anois ó 1973, sin bliain agus dhá scór ó shin. caithfear a rá go bhfuil a lán dul chun cinn déanta ag an dtír seo, mar a dúirt cainteoirí eile. ach i slite eile, ní féidir an dul chun cinn seo a bhrath ná a fheiscint. cúpla sampla de sin ná: nach bhfuil lucht freasúra láidir ann; gur léir go bhfuil comhcheilg idir na breithiúna agus an rialtas – agus ní féidir cur suas leis seo, ba chóir go mbeadh triail fhéaráilte le fáil ag gach uile dhuine; na coinníollacha slándála atá ag na hoibrithe – chonaiceamar cad a tharla i monarcha éadaí rana plaza anuraidh nuair a fuair 1 100 duine bás; agus níos measa is dócha, an neamhaird agus an chluas bhodhar a thugtar do mhná nuair a tharlaíonn coireanna coiriúlachta gnéis ina gcoinne. dá bhrí sin, ba chóir go mbeadh muid san airdeall faoi na rudaí seo agus brú a chur ar an mbanglaidéis iad a fheabhsú.
madam president, i voted against the joint resolution on palestine because i believe it sends a message to israel that it can continue to carry out its genocide campaign against the people of palestine with impunity. i think people across europe are going to be disappointed to learn that this house, including meps from ireland, voted against resolutions today that would, for example, have called for the release of 34 legally elected palestinian representatives; they would have called for an international committee to be constituted to investigate the war crimes committed during the most recent israeli aggression; they would have called on the eu to implement its own article 2 of the eu-israel association agreement by freezing the agreement as long as israel continues its violation of human rights; and would have demanded reparations from israel for projects that the eu itself funded and that israel destroyed in its most recent attack on gaza. there has been lots of talk, in this world war i centenary year, of the european union being a symbol of peace. the actions of this house today, by contrast, make the european parliament a symbol of international inaction against the illegal war being waged against the palestinian people.
in writing. - fine gael meps voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on israel-palestine after the gaza war and the role of the eu (rc-b8-0117/2014), which was co-signed by five political groups, as it appropriately supports a lasting ceasefire in the region, condemns violations of human rights and international humanitarian law and supports efforts to provide additional humanitarian funding. fine gael meps recognise that the blockade of gaza must be ended and that unobstructed access to humanitarian aid must be allowed. we are categorical in condemning the disproportionate use of military force by israel as well as the firing of rockets by hamas and other militants into israel. we believe that all citizens, palestinian or israeli, have the right to live in peace and security and we encourage both sides to engage in genuine negotiations to end violence and ensure that a lasting ceasefire is instituted. written explanation of vote signed by brian hayes, seán kelly, mairead mcguinness and deirdre clune.
mr president, i welcome that today the foreign ministers have agreed to step up efforts as a community to tackle this ebola crisis. amongst the measures that they are talking about, one that i hope will resonate in this chamber is to give guarantees to healthcare workers who volunteer and put themselves at risk, so that they will go there and tackle this disease; because you can treat the disease and you can prevent it from spreading. so that is one small piece of good news. clearly we are debating this with greater urgency because ebola has now reached the european union. i am not proud to say that is the case, but it is the reality and perhaps it may lead to a cure, and indeed more effective action. in terms of the budget that we are using to tackle this disease, it has to come from the existing pot and clearly there is already a reduction in the common agricultural policy budget predicted for next year of eur 448 million. it is hard to argue against it, but we need to be careful of resources. lastly, there are children who have been orphaned because of this disease. they are not being looked after, because people are concerned about them. this crisis will go on, beyond the immediate crisis, into looking after those left behind.
the next item is the debate on the council and commission statements on the outcome of the high level conference on employment in europe (milan, 8 october) (2014/2898(rsp)).
president of the council. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is with great pleasure that i share with you the results of the high level conference on employment. this is a priority issue for the italian presidency, in line with the conclusions of the european council in june, which identified growth and employment as the top priorities for the work of the european union over the next five years. this is a very topical issue in view of the particularly high unemployment rates: 11.5% in the euro area in august, with marked differences between member states and concerns regarding youth unemployment: 23.1% in the euro area, over 50% in some member states. in this context, and also on the basis of the indications of the extraordinary european council in august, the italian presidency organised the high level conference on employment in milan on 8 october last, as a follow-up to the conferences on youth employment held in berlin in july 2013 and in paris last november. the main purpose of the work of this last edition was to reflect on the need to provide new and coordinated responses to the revival of growth and employment, including through appropriate investment policies. the conference, attended by 16 heads of state or government, examined the conditions necessary for the creation of new jobs and for improving the match between labour supply and demand. the first was the need for structural reforms, which were considered crucial to reopening the labour market and promoting employment. however, it was noted that these are necessary but not sufficient conditions and should be supplemented by comments on the application. in addition to reforms, a growth environment is crucial, which inevitably requires a revival of investment. the need to provide shared and coordinated responses at eu level was therefore discussed. the conference was divided into three sessions: the commission will be presenting a report on the implementation of the programme to the european parliament and the council in the course of the year. the breakfast of the ministers for employment focused on direct measures and instruments for the promotion of employment, particularly youth employment. in this connection, the ministers called on the commission to strengthen the youth employment initiative, which should become a structural scheme of the european union, and to increase significantly the amount of prefinancing of the funds allocated to it. the need for more effective procedures for implementing the youth guarantee, a programme which is taking off successfully in several member states, was also raised, as was illustrated by the directors of the public employment services at the opening technical session. the contribution of the european investment bank to the implementation of direct employment programmes was acknowledged, particularly in its emphasis on investment in human capital and training. the transition from school to work and dual training were cited as a good model and the role of employment services was mentioned. the heads of state or government's speeches, in stressing the importance of national reforms to increase the efficiency and transparency of the labour market, underlined the need to identify instruments to support growth in the real economy and to promote investment within the framework of the rules governing the economy in the euro area and the single market. it is equally important to identify strategic areas with high growth potential on which the institutions should focus their attention. finally, the digital economy, transport and energy were mentioned as priority areas.
member of the commission. - madam president, the meeting of heads of state and government last week in milan reconfirmed their determination to make the youth guarantee a reality. as you know, the commission under the leadership of president barroso has taken a number of initiatives to improve the employment situation and the life prospects of young people. the youth guarantee is a key structural reform of our time. its implementation is at the core of the eu coordination of employment policies and it is therefore central to the european semester and the country-specific recommendations. the youth guarantee is a comprehensive policy which includes the modernisation of vocational training, strengthening of public employment services, greater support for apprenticeships and traineeships, as well as financial incentives for job creation and business start-ups. all these measures need to be combined in order to ensure that every young person under the age of 25 receives a good quality offer of a job, continued education, apprenticeship or traineeship within four months after leaving school or becoming unemployed. the youth guarantee focuses both on improving the quality of labour supply, for instance through training, and on stimulating demand for young people’s labour, for instance targeted wage or recruitment subsidies and apprenticeship grants. the youth guarantee is being implemented across europe. some member states have amended their legislation, others have introduced new policy instruments to scale up labour market-related measures for young people. for example, in spain, the number of vocational education in training (vet) centres of companies involved in dual projects and of vet students has doubled since 2013. in slovakia, hiring subsidies are proving effective in supporting long-term unemployed young people. the youth guarantee has already resulted in 12 000 jobs in slovakia, mainly in smes, and most of them sustainable. in parallel, vocational education is also being modernised. just last week i visited a second-chance school in turin, italy, where young people are learning various crafts such as baking or brewing, and cooperative enterprises play an important role in offering them first employment. the eu budget provides important financial support for the roll-out of the youth guarantee. the first instrument to be used was obviously the european social fund for 2007-2013 from which member states have planned to finance human capital investment up to 2015. on top of that, we have the eur 6.4 billion youth employment initiative, whose implementation has been frontloaded to 2014-15 in terms of budgetary commitments. as i already informed you in september, we expect that operational programmes covering 85% of the youth employment initiative will be adopted by the end of this year. importantly, expenditure on youth employment initiative projects has been eligible since 1 september 2013. this means that many member states have been spending their money from this envelope for more than a year and the expenditure will be reimbursed after the operational programmes are adopted. in addition, the member states have proposed to allocate more than eur 4 billion from the european social fund 2014-2020 to the investment priority specifically supporting young people’s labour market integration. considerable further resources from the esf are also being programmed for general job search support measures, entrepreneurship support or vocational training investments from which young people will also benefit. the youth guarantee has a cost, but it should be considered an investment. investing in the youth guarantee’s implementation here and now is crucial for preserving the eu’s future growth potential. as you know, the economic value of the youth guarantee has been highlighted by the oecd, the ilo and eurofound. more recently, the g20 strongly supported it and invited countries to step up implementation. the economic value of the youth guarantee is related both to building up the human capital stock and to improving the flow of this human capital into and within the labour market. in other words, it pays off to ensure that young people quickly find relevant jobs where their productive potential can be realised. for this we need not only education and training, but also active labour market policies, high-performing public employment services, as well as measures stimulating demand for labour, such as targeted hiring subsidies, all embedded together in the youth guarantee schemes. these investments and their returns are harder to measure than, for instance, infrastructure investments, but they are very important, both to strengthen the human capital stock and to improve labour market flows and transitions. that is why the youth guarantee expenditure should be considered as an investment. heads of state and government and ministers meeting last week in milan reconfirmed that the youth guarantee is – and should remain – the framework for our efforts to improve youth employment across europe. i am therefore confident that the value of these investments will be recognised also in the eu’s future plans for investment. some member states still seem to be facing constraints when it comes to their ability to pre-finance the implementation of the youth guarantee measures from their national budgets. as you know very well, the eu structural investment funds provide only very limited pre-financing in the 2014-20 period, namely 1% in the year 2014, which can be increased to 1.5% in cases of the youth employment imitative for countries that had recently been subject to a macroeconomic adjustment programme. we may all agree that this level of pre-financing is low, but unfortunately it is closely linked to the overall design of the multiannual financial framework and in particular to the very low payment ceiling for the first couple of years. the eu budget, as you know, is suffering from a severe shortage of payment appropriations, which also means that there was no room to envisage higher pre-financing rates for the youth employment initiative, at least not in the absence of a change of attitude from some member states. however, the european investment bank has been offering to member states the possibility of bridge financing, with their investments to be later reimbursed from the youth employment initiative. in this way the eib could help to resolve this liquidity problem. a couple of member states have already discussed with the eib the possibilities and i am sure the bank’s doors remain open to all member states. i reiterated the same messages last thursday during the formal epsco meeting attended by the employment and social affairs ministers. honourable members, the milan summit delivered one important message: if we want to have more employment in europe we need to combine structural reforms with support for aggregate demand. the youth guarantee is a structural reform and it also helps in boosting demand for young workers. successful delivery of the youth guarantee supported in a timely way by the relevant eu funds remains a priority for the commission. i am sure that it will continue to be treated as an urgent and important issue also by the incoming commission.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, progress on the youth guarantee and on the youth employment initiative is, at best, uneven. it is much too slow. yes, we know that six or nine billion – whatever it is – is not enough; it is not nearly enough for the youth guarantee. on this point i agree with angela merkel: spend the money before you look for more. but at another level, we all know the inflexibility of some member states when it comes to ensuring that the eu budget is fit for purpose. i suppose for many member states the real question is: do they have the resources or the freedom to use those resources for job creation? you yourself referred to this, commissioner. in that context i am more inclined to agree with prime minister renzi, who said that the current rules were designed for the europe of many years ago, as he said, for another world. our governments must have the ability to respond to change. to be stuck in a moment, to believe that one size fits all, to believe that there is one and only one solution to the on-going crisis, that is budget consolidation, that is a negation of what europe is about. we say time and time again europe must respond to change. yet history, fear and, in some cases, distrust keeps us stuck in the same rut. just before the job summit, the imf warned the eu to beef up its investments in public infrastructure, which will boost demand in the short-term and help potential output in the medium-term. in europe, those countries who want to spend are not allowed to and those countries who can spend have decided not to. it is a recipe for stagnation, deflation, flat growth and, sadly, for an erosion in citizens’ belief that the eu can work effectively to tackle its problems. finally, what structural changes do we need? yes, we need to align skills and training with market opportunities and we need to invest in sustainable technologies, eliminate red tape, etc. but structural reform cannot be a code word for an opportunity just to provide cheap labour. at a seminar at parliament last week, a young unemployed portuguese person said that firing parents to employ their sons and daughters at half their wages is no solution. and yes, while we all need to serve our internships and our apprenticeships, the youth guarantee cannot be an opportunity to use and abuse young people. i agree with the swedish prime minister: we need decent jobs.
i am not sure i heard a question there, but would you like to respond?
please answer that ‘question’ in thirty seconds.
mr president, countries that needed a radical new economic policy have instead been subjected to what has been a disastrous agenda that has resulted in high levels of public debt and unemployment. those jobs that are being created are, in many cases, low-paid and short-term. in countries like ireland we have seen the devastating results of a government’s obsession with austerity policy. in my own constituency we have witnessed entire rural communities being left desolate, with no employment opportunities for the young, resulting in mass emigration from those areas. the irish government has now created a two-tier and two-speed recovery that has yet to reach those families which actually suffered most throughout the recession, and the european commission, it appears to me, is cheerleading this approach to achieve any kind of sustainable fiscal adjustment, when the sole priority should be to achieve full employment. the commission’s policy recommendations and the report before us this week add insult to injury. the failure of austerity policies and the ineffectiveness of the current monitoring policy is obvious to the citizens that we represent, but too many people here today are, i fear, blind to the need for a real stimulus package that would reinvigorate our domestic economies.
in writing. - i support the need to have a european instrument to assist redundant workers. i am glad that parliament fully supported the setting up of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) as part of the multiannual financial framework for 2014 to 2020. i supported this application for comunidad valenciana metal workers following 633 redundancies in 142 enterprises in the fabricated metal products industry. assistance to this region is essential, particularly given the fact that in the period 2008-2009 industrial production in spain declined by almost five points more than in the eu-28 and has yet to recover and still faces continuing decline. i would also like to congratulate the spanish authorities for their support for the workers in their decision to begin the early implementation of personalised services to those made redundant.
in writing. - i support the need to have a european instrument to assist redundant workers. i am glad that parliament fully supported the setting up of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) as part of the multiannual financial framework for 2014 to 2020. i supported the ford genk application for the mobilisation of eur 570 945 following the redundancies of 512 workers from the ford plant in genk as well as ten belgian suppliers to the plant. over the last number of years we have seen a large number of egf applications on behalf of those working in the automotive industry. given that another 7 160 redundancies approximately are due to impact the region this year, and the inevitable knock-on effects of this on the local and regional economies, the use of the egf in the region will be essential for these workers to retrain and build upon their existing skills in order to re-enter the labour market.
in writing. - i support the need to have a european instrument to assist redundant workers. i am glad that parliament fully supported the setting up of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) as part of the mff for 2014 to 2020. i voted in favour of the carsid application for eur 911 934 for the 939 steel workers made redundant due to the closure of the carsid sa production plant. the charleroi area´s high reliance on the steel production industry, which has in turn been severely impacted by a decline in the construction and automotive sectors as a result of the crisis, requires a fast response and measures to combat long-term unemployment and encourage reintegration into employment. i hope that this will be achieved by the personalised measures to be implemented for the workers.
in writing. – mr barroso may claim, in his defence, that he had to weather the worst crisis in the history of the european union, but he never acknowledged that the financial crisis was brought about by the same kind of policies he spearheaded, and which in turn made it escalate into a destructive economic crisis across the continent. acting at the behest of the majority of the conservative governments that appointed him, mr barroso consistently let selfish national interests and priorities run over the common interests of european citizens. incredibly, he claims to have increased the power of the commission. mr barroso chose to run to the virtually unconditional rescue of the financial sector and its creditors, at the expense of the needs of their victims. he chose to ignore how the architecture of the common currency facilitated and exacerbated the crisis, especially in smaller, peripheral countries. even when he took the first steps to address those flaws, he went down a moralising path that served conservative interests and divided member states, punishing vulnerable citizens with loss of disposable income, public services and welfare entitlements. mr barroso’s sorry legacy should be repudiated.
thar ceann an ghrúpa gue/ngl. – a uachtaráin, dar leis an gcoimisiún ag deireadh 2013 bhí easnamh i mbuiséad an aontais de níos mó ná eur 23.4 billiún i bpolasaithe comhtháthaithe. inniu tá ballstáit ag fanacht ar íocaíochtaí, ar éilithe dlisteanacha agus mar thoradh ar seo tá tionchar thar a bheith diúltach aige seo ar ollscoileanna, institiúidí taighde, gnóthaí beaga agus meánmhéide agus tús éifeachtach na gclár éagsúil i gcomhair 2014-2020. i mo thír féin, tá cosc curtha ar éilithe íocaíochta de eur 51 milliún –eur 24 milliún i gciste sóisialta na heorpa agus eur 27 milliún i gciste forbraíochta réigiúnaí na heorpa. is léir nach bhfuil rud ar bith athraithe, go leor airgid ag dul go dtí na bainc agus gan faic ag dul go dtí na daoine. tá mé ag iarraidh fáil amach an bhfuil aon mheasúnú déanta maidir leis an méid daoine atá ag fulaingt de bharr na moilleanna seo. go háirithe, cé mhéad daoine ar chaill a bpost nó atá i mbaol a bpost a chailliúint i ngnóthaí beaga agus meánmhéide. cé mhéad clár d'fhorbairt réigiúnach, iascairí agus institiúidí taighde atá i mbaol mar gheall ar an bpraiseach seo.
thar ceann an ghrúpa gue/ngl. – a uachtaráin, gheall an chomhairle go raibh siad chun infheistíocht a dhéanamh i ndaoine agus is léir ón dréachtbhuiséad seo go bhfuil an gealltanas sin tréigthe acu agus go bhfuil siad sásta leanúint ar aghaidh sa treo céanna. aithnítear go forleathan go bhfuil an méid déine atá ag teacht ón eoraip ag cur brú ollmhór ar ghnáthdhaoine. tá sé mhíle dhéag daoine i gcontae chiarraí i mo thír féin ag dul agus ag baint úsáid as banc bia. timpeall na heorpa tá na mílte páistí ag maireachtáil i mbochtanas agus tá an scéal seo ag dul in olcas. is fadhb ollmhór í an eisimirce chomh maith leis na céadta daoine ag fágaint ár dtír. is daoine óga atá ag fágaint mo thír, an ghréig, an spáinn agus an iodáil agus an eoraip – iadsan ár dtodhchaí. tá sé soiléir chomh maith go bhfuil tíortha éagsúla ag fulaingt níos mó ná tíortha eile agus ba mhaith liom fáil amach cad atá sé i gceist a dhéanamh chun na difríochtaí ollmhóra idir na ballstáit go léir a shocrú. mar aon leis sin, tá an neamhshuim atá léirithe ag an gcoimisiún i dtaobh na n-iascairí scannalach. in éirinn tá ár bpobal iascaireachta i gcruachás mór agus is léir nach bhfuil mórán dóchais dóibh ann don todhchaí le tuilleadh gearrtha siar atá i ndán dóibh i 2015. tá traidisiún phobal an chósta á scriosadh, ní hamháin ar chúrsaí eacnamaíochta ach táthar ag cur deireadh le traidisiún cultúrtha atá ag dul i bhfad siar. caithfear an bunstruchtúr a chur in ord go luath ionas go mbeidh fás agus borradh fós ann agus go mbeidh luach á chur i ndaoine mar idir an dá linn tá postanna agus slí bheatha daoine scaoilte le fána agus imithe le sruth. mar sin tá dualgas agus freagracht ar an gcoimisiún agus ar an gcomhairle dul i ngleic leis an bhfadhb seo.
i would perhaps suggest that you have this conversation outside the chamber. i am going to give ms in ‘t veld the floor now because she is making a point of order.
the debate is closed. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the report by gabrielius landsbergis, on behalf of the committee on international trade, on customs duties on goods originating in ukraine (com(2014)0597 – c8-0165/2014 – 2014/0279(cod)) (a8-0021/2014).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 23 october 2014. written statements (rule 162)
mr president, what europe needed in a new commission was a change in direction; certainly across the member states the people demanded that change in last may’s elections. the people of europe, i would say to mr juncker, want and deserve an end to the austerity agenda, an end to the conservative, regressive and undemocratic policies that underpin the eu today. they want a social europe that protects public services, that invests in sustainable jobs for our young people and reinvigorates the regions and rural communities. what is on offer today instead is more of the same. forget about the personalities involved, this commission is representative of the old boys’ club that is intent on continuing the socially regressive, undemocratic europe that has become disengaged from the communities and the citizens it claims to serve. sinn fein meps will be voting against the college because we want a fair europe in which member states work together on matters of mutual interest, rather than the two-tier, unequal europe that is represented by this commission.
the chairman of the committee shall be appointed by the president of the commission. going to get up and go to bed with your mother. mr president, i would like to i would like to congratulate president juncker on the way he has divided what could be an unwieldy bunch of 28 independent-minded commissioners into an effective team. i think that is a good idea and, as a sportsman, i also welcome the fact that he has made sport a specific responsibility for commissioner navracsics. i would like to congratulate the irish commissioner, phil hogan, on being given the heavy responsibility of the agriculture portfolio, and i would ask president juncker perhaps to help him reverse the decision of recent days to raid the emergency funds for farmers, as a result of the pressure put on them due to russian sanctions, taking eur 451 million and reducing it to just over eur 80 million. that is not acceptable. i also welcome your commitment, president juncker, in relation to the eur 300 billion and especially the involvement of the private sector, because it is private-sector entrepreneurs, rather than bureaucrats, who create jobs. with regard to trade, i would urge you particularly to place great emphasis on liquefied natural gas (lng) terminals in europe, in order to improve security and diversity of supply, and also on electricity interconnectors, which can be very effective, particularly using intermittent renewables. finally, i want to welcome your commitment to the transatlantic trade and investment partnership (ttip). i would also ask you to ensure that the comprehensive trade and economic agreement (ceta) with canada and the singapore deal are brought to fruition as soon as possible. mr juncker, you have a very ambitious plan. please make the plan a reality from the word go.
in writing. - while some commissioners-designate demonstrated competence, commitment and a progressive outlook, mr junker was dealt a very bad hand by the european council of member state governments. many governments nominated candidates who were obviously picked for the job as thanks for their pedigrees as loyal, party-political servants. we saw serious instances of conflicts of interest and candidates with very questionable commitment to fundamental european values. unfortunately, some of the logical outcomes that should have been drawn at the end of the hearings process were marred by paralysis, as the main conservative group decided to hold some candidates hostage in order to force its most unsavoury candidates through. gender equality also fell victim to the member statesʼ choice to reward political allies over ability. mr juncker himself recognised as much in his speech this morning, describing the appointment of nine women out of 28 as ‘ridiculousʼ. we must rethink the hearings process to prevent it from becoming a rubber-stamping exercise where candidates are frozen in by a threat of mutually assured rejection across party lines. our electorates sent a clear message for change at the european elections. we ignore it at the european project’s peril.
the uachtaráin, chaith mé vote against an bhuiséid that. the council said it was going to make an investment and that it was clear that it was not happy about it and that it was not prepared to do so. the european union is a political union, and it is not a political union. the commission has also been active in developing policies to promote sustainable investment. caithfear poist the creation agus so to give to those who are ag streachailt. the dual responsibilities of the commission are to ensure that the rules are maintained.
in writing. - i abstained on this resolution as, although it contains some good elements, and we have reversed some of the damaging decreases in some budget lines, there are still many problems with the eu budget and its application. damaging delays and misplaced focus mean that once again we have a budget that mostly benefits the elite. there are some important increases which, although i welcome their presence, do not go far enough. also, i am disappointed that money continues to be committed to areas which are simply not valuable to europeʼs citizens. the role of the vprh is just one of these areas where the eu is simply out of touch with what citizens want. on the other hand i am pleased to see that parliament has decided to increase the funding to unrwa, this is clearly an example of the citizensʼ concerns coming to the fore. however on the whole, many items in the budget are simply not what the people need and therefore i abstained.
mr president, syria has become a major humanitarian challenge facing the world today. the war there has killed hundreds and thousands; it has displaced more than 6.5 million people inside the country and it has forced more than three million to flee for their lives beyond the borders. the flagrant violation of international law by all sides in the syrian conflict must be confronted and referred to the international criminal court. the rise of isis, the continued activities of al-qaeda, and the growing strength of boko haram make it clear that there is no room for complacency among the international community when it comes to the growth of extremism. we must unite, we must mobilise to confront this threat and we must do so with a real sense of urgency. everywhere we look at this time we see a world beset by warfare and terror on many fronts, heart-rending reports of escalating casualties and refugee numbers, the slaughter of innocents and the suffering of children and vulnerable adults in northern iraq and syria. the town of kobane has become a crucial symbolic battleground in the war against isis. having been under siege for a month now, it is heart-breaking to see mothers, young children and vulnerable adults involved in defending the city, which has come under sustained attack from isis fighters. over 180 000 syrians have been displaced to turkey by the fierce fighting in kobane alone and yes, the commission has increased its humanitarian budget for the syrian crisis in 2014, but we must question whether we doing enough to stop the isis advance. we must question whether we are doing enough to help the three million refugees, many of them children, who are now spread across jordan, turkey, lebanon, iraq, egypt and parts of north africa. more pertinent is what awaits the people who remain in kobane, a besieged people short of fuel, food, weaponry and without adequate international support. we must not just question, we must act. we have a duty to act, and this union has a moral obligation to help civilians in kobane to do everything in its power, from both a humanitarian and political perspective, to stop the advance of isis and deal with the refugee crisis that is threatening to tear that region apart.
mr president, the compilation of accurate statistics in relation to the numbers of actual foreign fighters is problematic, due to the secretive nature of those travelling and many of the circuitous routes such individuals take in reaching their destinations; but it is happening and there is no doubt about it. we hear various reports of figures, in their thousands or hundreds, i do not know, but certainly it is happening. the phenomenon of individuals travelling from all over europe to the fighting has affected the majority of european states and it is one to which ireland, my own country, gave priority during their recent presidency of the union in 2013. in that context, ireland was successful in gaining the agreement of member states to carry out a review of the strategy for counteracting radicalisation and recruitment to terrorism. a primary point of focus in this review was the foreign fighter issue, and a number of initiatives have been developed to combat this phenomenon, including: community relations, which i believe are very important; media campaigns; enhanced tracking of movements; engagement with third countries, notably turkey; and engagement with internet service providers to curb radical on-line content. it is widely accepted that this problem cannot be resolved by security-related measures alone and that a key issue in addressing it is a programme of proactive engagement with the communities affected. meaningful engagement with these communities is an essential part of the process, in order to avoid any sense of profiling of stigmatisation of sectors of the population. the protection of fundamental rights and recognition from the outset that the majority of people wish to go about their daily lives in peace and to play a productive part in society is enshrined within this engagement. the growth of extremism which we are now witnessing across the reign is a cause of considerable concern, which i know is shared by all of us in this room. the blood lust and inhumanity which isis is displaying in syria and iraq has shocked and appalled all civilised people. the destruction and displacement of the ancient christian communities of northern iraq has been harrowing to witness. all of this taken together harks back to a mentality and a culture which we thought had long been consigned to history. it is a frightening new reality for the world and one which we must address head on.
údar. - a uachtaráin, caithfidh mé a rá go raibh díospóireacht inár ngrúpa faoin ábhar seo aréir agus bhí meascán tuairimí ann. cheap a lán daoine nach raibh úisbéiceastáin inchurtha lena lán tíortha eile a mbímid ag caint fúthu sna díospóireachtaí cánacha seo. mar shampla, tá dul chun cinn déanta acu maidir leis an bpionóis báis a chur ar ceal agus freisin dúradh go bhfuil an tuairisc seo ón human rights watch ceithre bliana ar an bhfód. foilsíodh é i mí na nollag 2011. bíodh sin mar atá, is ceart dúinn is dóigh liom féin díriú go háirithe ar choinníollacha ina bhfuil príosúnaigh pholaitiúla faoi láthair in úisbéiceastáin agus brú a chur ar na húdaráis ansin cearta an duine agus cothrom na féinne a thabhairt dóibh agus go háirithe ós rud é go mbeidh cainteanna an mhí seo chugainn faoi, tá sé sin tábhachtach.
we have a point of order from mr iglesias.
i said at the start of the debate that i would give one blue card per speaker and i would not allow those who were contributing to the debate to ask a question. i am trying to be fair and i have asked the services to assist me in doing that. so far i have. i literally caught the gentleman’s eye and i am taking one blue card. it is due to the time pressures we are under. i hope you understand, but i am trying to be fair to everybody in the chamber.
thank you for your point.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, as the rapporteur for the international fund for ireland in the last mandate, and as the leader of my group in the ppe, it gives me great pleasure to present this resolution on the peace process in northern ireland to parliament this evening. i would particularly like to welcome the commissioner, who is a former colleague, and to congratulate her on her elevation. it gives me great pleasure to be the first to address her. without doubt, the whole peace process in northern ireland can be looked at as a miracle, because people who probably hated one another, and who were willing to go by the gun rather than the ballot, turned away from that. as a result we got the good friday agreement and the northern ireland assembly and executive committee – a system which has worked very well in general over the last number of years. for that, the european union deserves great credit, and people like jim nicholson who have been involved over all that period here in parliament can testify to how important this was. now, however, there is an impasse – and i would call it an impasse rather than an end, because while there are issues which need to be addressed, we hope that this resolution will encourage all sides to come together and to do so in an open spirit. it was particularly great to welcome here over the last couple of weeks the deputy first minister, mr mcguinness and, today, the first minister, mr robinson and the leader of the dup, mr nesbitt, who have all said that europe is seen as a friend of northern ireland. it is in that spirit that we present this resolution, because the people of northern ireland want peace. i visited with my colleagues recently the peace projects which will be ongoing – as the commissioner pointed out – over the next number of years, and on the ground people want these to continue. it is very important now that all political sides come together and resolve the legacy issues and other issues which are holding things back right now. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – yes, there are, as pointed out, legacy issues that need to be addressed. some of these have been addressed over the last few years, and will continue to be addressed. i think this is part of the whole peace process, that people look at the situation, see what happened, and approach it with a view to getting peace and justice for everybody involved. it would not be right to say anything to condemn or be judgmental here in parliament, but obviously at the end of the day, everybody wants peace, everybody deserves closure and everyone wants justice.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, i too would like to welcome the commissioner to parliament this evening. if we look back to our own history, the primary objective in establishing the european union was to end all wars within our borders and to find ways and means of living together. now, for many people, especially those who have no memory of war, this may seem a very simple, a very straightforward, and sometimes even an inadequate objective because they have grown used to living in peaceful times. it is normal, everyday, and we expect it will always continue. but peace, of course, is never a given. it is never fully and finally achieved anywhere. it is always a process and that is just as true in mainland europe as it is in northern ireland. but the process of peace-building in northern ireland is still in its infancy. it is no longer a tiny new-born, but it still requires assistance and support. like any toddler, it can be knocked over, and it can fall over. all it can do then is haul itself back up on its feet, and take the next step, because there is no other way. the eu has acted as an honest broker and has funded a number of peace-building programmes. the last two programmes had as their priorities reconciling communities and contributing to a shared society, and the new peace funds will focus on young people and children. and speaking of young people and children, in my opinion much greater emphasis needs to be placed on some form of integrated education system where we can ensure cross-community interaction between four-year olds – that would be a positive start.
a uachtaráin, aithnítear an próiseas síochána i dtuaisceart na héireann ar fud an domhain. is próiseas inspioráideach agus dóchasach é go háirithe dóibh siúd atá ag déanamh iarracht a gcoimhlint féin a réiteach. cé go bhfuil dul chun cinn déanta, tá gá an próiseas a neartú agus caithfear déileáil leis na rudaí nach bhfuil réitithe agus aghaidh a thabhairt ar gach gné de na comhaontuithe éagsúla. tá sé thar a bheith am bheith dáiríre faoi acht na gaeilge. níl aon dabht ann ach go bhfuil easpa tuisceana agus aineolas ann i dtaobh thábhacht na gaelainne inár gcultúr. caithfidh comhionannas a bheith lárnach i ngach gné dár saol. ba chúis áifeála é dúinn nár glacadh le tograí richard haass mar gur iarracht a bhí ann teacht ar chomhréiteach. ach le tacaíocht pharlaimint na heorpa, táimid muiníneach go féidir linn bogadh ar aghaidh le chéile agus todhchaí dhóchasach a chruthú do mhuintir na héireann ar fad.
madam president, i would like to thank the commissioner for her statement and for outlining the funding that has been provided to support the peace process in northern ireland. indeed, i had the pleasure of visiting some of those projects myself recently with my colleagues, to see at first hand the value that this funding has provided in terms of cross-community support. this is support particularly for young people, people who have become victims of the violence for whatever reason, whether physical victims or victims who got sucked into the conflict and ended up being in prison with convictions, people who if they had their time again would maybe not be in that position. there is some very positive work going on on the ground there and it is very gratifying to see it. i welcome this week the intensification of talks in belfast to reach agreement on the key issues that are outstanding in the peace process. there is an impasse or a stalling, but that is not to take away from the very good work that has been done. the irish government will continue to work with the british government, and indeed with all parties, with a view to achieving a comprehensive agreement for the benefit of all citizens of northern ireland and indeed for the people across the island of ireland. the ongoing efforts to reach an overall agreement will have to address the past and its legacy and only then can we provide restitution to victims and to their survivors. i want to acknowledge the progress that has been made to date from all parties to the talks. there is an understanding that we have so much to gain by working together, and so much to lose if we do not, and i think that has been echoed across the floor here tonight. we are making progress, we continue to make progress. i would like to thank all members for their continued support, and call on all parties to work together for the benefit of the island of ireland.
madam president, i would like to thank the commissioner for outlining the important role of the european union in the northern ireland peace process, and i would also like to thank colleagues who are not from the island of ireland who have participated in this important debate. it has been a very respectful debate – as it should be – because it is about the lives and well-being of people. what i would like to stress here is that while we have the word ‘impasse’ in our resolution, we do not have the word ‘collapse’. what we are talking about here is making sure that this is only an impasse and that there is a political responsibility on the parties in northern ireland and on the parties in the republic of ireland and the united kingdom to get us out of this impasse. i grew up close to the border with northern ireland. i woke up every day as a child hearing about terrible deeds – children, mothers, fathers being murdered; awful, awful stories. my children do not know of that ireland, and i do not want to see that ireland ever return.
a uachtaráin, is cuimhin liom trí bliana ó shin in strasbourg nuair a bhíomar ag plé chás shúdáin theas agus an tír nua á bunú go raibh dóchas againn go n-éireodh go maith leis an tír nua. ach ag an am céanna, dúirt a lán feisirí ag an díospóireacht sin go raibh amhras orthu freisin nach mar sin a bheadh agus go mbeadh cogadh cathartha agus mar sin de ann agus sin díreach atá tar éis tarlú. in ionad dul chun cinn, tá siad tar éis dul ar gcúl, in ionad saibhreas a bheith acu tá bochtanas acu agus go háirithe daoine óga agus leanaí, tá siad i mbéal an bháis de bharr ocrais agus níl seans acu oideachas a fháil. is truamhéalach an scéal é agus dar ndóigh cé gur cheart dúinn leanúint ar aghaidh ag tabhairt cabhair dóibh go háirithe don chosmhuintir, is dóigh liom go bhfuil an ceart ag coimisinéir hahn gur cheart dúinn a bheith níos tofáilte leis an dá ghrúpa chun iad a thabhairt le chéile agus sos cogaidh a bheith acu a leanfaidh.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i too would like to warmly welcome commissioner thyssen to parliament here this evening on behalf of the alde group in the parliament. i too am looking forward to working with her and her secretariat for the next number of years. i tend to agree with ms mcintyre – as i sometimes do – on the item we are discussing here this evening. i am not sure what role we play here other than for information, but nonetheless we are discussing it, so i therefore have just a few comments to make on the amendments that are in front of us. the first one is to allow the cooperation of the contracting parties to extend to social affairs. by doing this, we will ensure that norway, iceland and liechtenstein will be able, for example, to access the progress microfinance facility. as we know, this fund was set up to help microbusinesses. it provides funds of up to eur 25 000 for small businesses, if they are either setting up or expanding. it is particularly targeted at those who have difficulty accessing credit from conventional credit lines. i am very pleased to see this and to see the good outcomes so far in a recent commission report as to how this progress microfinance facility has worked. it has given over eur 182 million to over 20 000 entrepreneurs, and the crucial point is that 60% of those final users were unemployed or inactive, and 30% were women. so it is getting to those who are targeted and, from that perspective, not only do i think it is an excellent facility within the eu, but i am glad to see that it will be extended to the efta countries. the other amendment we are discussing this evening is the amendment to include cooperation concerning the free movement of workers. my only comment on that is that i – like most people in this parliament – believe that this is a cornerstone of eu policy and i will be pleased to see that right extended to the countries in question.
mr president, recently, in all weather, nearly a quarter of a million people took to the streets across ireland to protest at the privatisation of our water and to protect the public supply for future generations. this latest tax on the irish people was expected to raise around eur 0.5 billion in 2015. at the same time, between now and 2032, the irish central bank will take in and destroy eur 28 billion. that is enough to build a state-of-the-art water supply system, but instead, at the behest of the ecb, this broke country borrows billions to destroy in order to pay for the legacy of bailing out the european banking system. today in this chamber we celebrated the fall of that wall in berlin, but let us also recognise that there is a new wall – an even higher and an even longer wall – which is the wall between those who have and those who have not, the wall built and reinforced by the likes of jean-claude juncker. the irish people have suffered enough at this stage. we have sacrificed enough. i am now asking for the support of the supposed solidarity that we have in the european union to destroy these odious promissory notes. we would like to do it with you, but we will do it on our own if we have to. that is all i have to say.
mr president, i rise to condemn the outgoing commission for raiding the emergency fund for agriculture to create a crisis reserve and thus taking 433 million out of direct payments to farmers which equates to 1.3% across the board. i order the new commission to reverse this act of sabotage with all possible haste, in line with the request of the ministers for agriculture to their ecofin counterparts and also a cross-party letter signed by members dess, de castro, nicholson and rohde. this is coming at the worst possible time for farmers, as morale is low due to the russian embargo, milk prices being in free fall and, in my own country, a differential in beef prices of eur 350 between similar cattle in ireland and the united kingdom, leading to an embargo in the last few weeks to protest at various stipulations such as age restrictions, movement restrictions and a grading system that even einstein could not understand! so i order the new commission to look at these issues.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) application made by andersen ireland. andersen ireland was a major employer in rathkeale co. limerick for 37 years and employed over 171 people. the closure of andersen ireland came as a huge blow to the community as its closure will undoubtedly have a significant, adverse impact on the local and regional economy. i welcome the fact that this now means that the eu will make eur 1.5m available to re-train and help find or create jobs for the former andersen workers who were made redundant. i also welcome the fact that a derogation was put in place which reduced the eligibility threshold of affected workers from 500 people to allow the 171 workers who lost their jobs to access this fund. this is another example of the huge potential the european globalisation fund (egf) has in providing assistance and the best opportunities, especially to those who find themselves out of work through no fault of their own.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) application made by andersen ireland. andersen ireland was a major employer in rathkeale co. limerick for 37 years and employed over 171 people. this news came as a huge blow to the community as its closure will have a significant, adverse impact on the local and regional economy. i welcome the fact that this now means that the eu will make eur 1.5m available to re-train and help find or create jobs for the former workers who were made redundant. i also welcome the fact that a derogation was put in place which reduced the eligibility threshold of affected workers from 500 people to allow the 171 workers who lost their jobs access this fund. this is another example of the positive assistance the egf can provide and it should be used as much as possible in order to assist those who find themselves out of work through no fault of their own. ballymena’s jti gallaher plant for example is due to close by 2017 with the loss of almost 900 jobs. it clearly falls into the remit of this fund. a bid for assistance should be made.
in writing. – i was hugely pleased to support this application for use of the european globalisation fund in the case of the 171 workers made redundant from andersen ireland and the further 138 neets who will benefit under the application. while the number of redundancies within the application falls below the threshold required i agree with the irish authorities that the exceptional circumstances warrant derogation in this case, namely the severe impact to regional employment in an already disadvantaged area with extremely high unemployment rates and the high number of women made redundant whose wage was the sole or most significant income in their household.
scríofa. - i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) application made by andersen ireland. andersen ireland was a major employer in rathkeale co. limerick for 37 years and employed over 171 people. this news came as a huge blow to the community as its closure will have a significant, adverse impact on the local and regional economy. i welcome the fact that this now means that the eu will make €1.5m available to re-train and help find or create jobs for the former workers who were made redundant. i also welcome the fact that a derogation was put in place which reduced the eligibility threshold of affected workers from 500 people to allow the 171 workers who lost their jobs access this fund. this is another example of the positive assistance the egf can provide and it should be used as much as possible in order to assist those who find themselves out of work through no fault of their own. ballymena's jti gallaher plant for example is due to close by 2017 with the loss of almost 900 jobs. it clearly falls into the remit of this fund. a bid for assistance should be made.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this application for mobilisation of the egf for 761 workers made redundant from sprider stores and the further 550 neets to benefit under the application. i particularly welcome the full uptake of measures by all those made redundant as well as the solid criteria to be used by the greek authorities to select the target neets and the emphasis on entrepreneurship by granting the maximum amount of eur 15 000 to 200 selected workers and neets hopefully going towards the creation of future employment.
mr president, i voted in favour of the resolution pertaining to the peace process in ireland and i want to take this opportunity to thank the members of the european parliament for adopting this resolution in such overwhelming numbers. i come from a town along the southern side of the irish border. i know at first hand, and my constituents know at first hand, the detriment of partition, of conflict, of the lost lives and lost generations that we have seen as a result of the conflict that took place in our country, but also the difficulties that we have in the fact that there are now, as we speak, two currencies, two tax regimes, two health systems operating back to back. what i would ask is for this parliament's and the european union's support in ensuring that we can develop an all-ireland economy as well as supporting the continuation of what has been a very successful peace process.
mr president, i also would like to take the opportunity to thank parliament for its support for this resolution. i voted in favour of this report on the irish peace process and i think the overwhelming support it received today is a testament to the international concern and backing for the north to overcome the impasse that has been reached in the progress of the peace process. as a member of the committee on employment and social affairs i was particularly pleased to see explicit reference to the need for further economic and social development in order to consolidate the ongoing peace process. this is especially significant given that the tory-led government are currently trying to impose harsh and unfair welfare cuts on the north’s poorest citizens, both unionists and nationalists. we defend and stand with all working class communities in the north, opposing cuts and the conservative ethos of cutting benefits such as disability living allowance to those most in need. i would call on all parties in the north to do the same.
a uachtaráin, cosúil le mo chomhghleacaithe thall ansin matt carthy agus lynn boylan, fáiltím roimh an toradh a bhí againn ar an rún seo inniu agus dar ndóigh thugas tacaíocht dó. taispeánann sé go bhfuil pobal na heorpa agus an taontas i gcoitinne sásta seasamh taobh thiar den phróiseas síochána i dtuaisceart na héireann agus molaimid an dul chun cinn atá déanta ann agus le cúnamh dé, beidh siad in ann leanúint ar aghaidh agus rachaidh an próiseas ó neart go neart amach anseo. maidir leis an leasú ó bhéal a bhí ag na spáinnigh, tuigim cad a bhí i gceist acu ach bhí idirbheartaíocht againn roimh ré nach nglacfaimid le haon leasú mar baineann an rún seo le tuaisceart na héireann amháin agus tá sé sin tábhachtach nach leathnódh sé amach ach b'fhéidir mar eiseamláir faoi cad is féidir a dhéanamh agus cad a dhéanamh a bhaint amach trí gach duine ag teacht le chéile.
in writing. – i was very pleased to support this resolution and indeed co-author it on behalf of my group. the primary objective in establishing the eu was to end all wars within our borders and to find ways and means to live together. there is still a lot of work to be done for the peace process in northern ireland and the eu has acted as an honest broker in that process, particularly through funding of peace building programmes. i am glad the resolution achieved overwhelming support within the house and that the european parliament stands ready to help if needed.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution on the northern ireland peace process because i believe that it is important to support international efforts to advance the peace process in order to bring about a full implementation of the good friday agreement. i also believe it is important to signal the parliament’s willingness to engage constructively, where needed, in this process.
a uachtaráin, agus mar an cainteoir deireanach ba mhaith liom ar dtús moladh a thabhairt duitse as ucht an tslí a dhéanann tú cathaoirleacht ar an bpáirtí seo inniu. freisin bhí áthas orm tacaíocht a thabhairt don tuarascáil seo agus is ceart agus is cóir go ndéanfaimid ár ndícheall mar pharlaimint gach aon chabhair a thabhairt do mhuintir shúdáin theas. nuair a bunaíodh an tír seo níos mó ná trí bliana ó shin anois, cheap a lán daoine go raibh saol nua iontach romhaibh amach ach chun na fírinne a rá bhí imní ar dhaoine eile agus cheap siad go raibh sé an deacair dóibh comhoibriú lena chéile agus sin díreach cad a tharla. dá bhrí sin, molaimid dʼúdarás shúdáin theas an cogadh cathartha a chur taobh thiar dóibh, úsáid a bhaint as na hacmhainní nádúrtha atá acu, ola ach go háirithe, chun saol níos fearr a bheith acu dár saoránaigh. dá bhrí sin, tá áthas orm cabhrú leis agus molaim thú anois arís as ucht an dea-jab atá déanta agat inniu.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on the humanitarian situation in south sudan because this is an escalating humanitarian emergency which is affecting almost half the population. the european union needs to further its humanitarian efforts to ensure that humanitarian assistance is delivered, particularly to the poorest and most vulnerable sections of society who are disproportionately affected by this crisis.
madam president, i want to deal briefly with the very significant problem of cigarette smuggling, which is a real issue across the european union. it is estimated that eur 10 billion is lost annually. it is reckoned also that 11% of all cigarettes sold in the eu are illegal. in my own country, ireland, the figure is about 13%. i want to praise the recent action by the european anti-fraud office (olaf) in an operation called replica, which, in october this year, seized 130 million cigarettes on their way to my country and other countries. what i am looking for this evening is a commitment to much greater cooperation and integration between olaf, the europe-wide anti-smuggling agency, the national coastguards and also the customs and revenue services in the various member states. we need our role here to be more integrated to make sure that we do much more to stop the smuggling of cigarettes.
the next item is the vote on the request for urgent procedure under rule 154 on the proposal for a council regulation amending regulation (ec, euratom) no 1150/2000 implementing decision 2007/436/ec, euratom on the system of the european communities’ own resources (com(2014)0704 – c8-0250/2014 – 2014/0332(nle)) committee on budgets.
we now have two co-rapporteurs on the issue. sorry, mr nart, i did not see you there. you have the floor on a point of order.
thank you for your point, but there are plenty of colleagues in the chamber at the moment and i see many more coming in. but i take your point.
thank you for your reassurance. we will continue with the contributions on this voting procedure. we have two co-rapporteurs, and i will first give the floor for one-and-a-half minutes to mr deprez.
the next item is the debate on– the oral question to the council on employment and social aspects of the europe 2020 strategy by marita ulvskog, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs (o-000076/2014 – (2014/2779(rsp)) – b8-0035/2014),– the oral question to the commission on employment and social aspects of the europe 2020 strategy by marita ulvskog, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs (o-000077/2014 – (2014/2779(rsp)) – b8-0036/2014).
colleagues, we are running very late on this debate, which is a function of a slightly late start, and i know mr etheridge has indicated a blue card. i am going to make a ruling that we will not take blue cards in this debate because of our time schedules with the address of his holiness the pope, so thank you for your understanding on that issue.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, last march the commission produced a document which took stock of progress on the eu2020 strategy, and the document itself makes very sobering reading. we are informed that levels of private debt among households and companies – already high in some member states – have increased significantly during the crisis. it points to rising levels of unemployment and poverty, with the long-term unemployed – those out of work for more than one year – increasing by over 80% between 2008 and 2012. now there are some positives in the report, in that the share of young people in tertiary education has increased and the percentage of early school leavers has dropped. but equally, the share of neets – at 13% in 2012 – is a major source of concern. alarmingly, it also points out that, although significant inequalities already existed in some member states prior to the crisis, those divergences have amplified both within and between member states. from a social perspective it warns that, while gdp and wealth have marginally increased overall, the crisis has constrained redistributive effects. so, on my part at least, all of this gives rise to a growing alarm – even panic – at what is happening across the eu, a continent that i believe is fracturing economically and politically. those of us who support the eu as an entity need to find ways to help and support member states to deal with this immense challenge. some of the challenges are fiscal – are debt-related – and while they are crucial, we are not discussing them here this morning. this morning we are trying to see how we can strengthen the employment and social aspects of the eu2020 strategy. even though citizens will not see an immediate impact, if we can find agreement on proposals to help member states achieve those targets, then i believe we will have done valuable work. so that is why we welcome, for the first time, the use on the scoreboard of key employment and social indicators such as child poverty levels, access to health care and homelessness. but crucially, we ask that the scoreboard be used as an early warning mechanism in order to develop suitable policies, otherwise we are just number-crunching, we are box-ticking, and that is less than useless. we also ask that employment and social considerations be put on a par with macroeconomic ones. i personally support this proposal. i know there are issues about a legal base, but i want to ask the commissioner: what is your view on this, how do you see the possibilities of rebalancing the economic and the social, how can we make it real rather than just talking about it? this is not just about spending money. yes, we will have the details of juncker’s package tomorrow, but we need to be sure first of all that it is growth-friendly investment, and secondly that there is a redistributive effect from this growth. so i am asking the commissioner: how specifically do you propose to deliver on those objectives? i was interested to hear the council speaking earlier about integrating the 2020 objectives into the european semester. you said yourself there is an imbalance there. we need to see how to get rid of that imbalance. finally, job creation is crucial, and in that, alde strongly supports the elimination of bureaucracy and unnecessary burdens for smes. but equally, we must target decent jobs. i agree with my colleague casa: it is crucial to address the abuse of vulnerable people.
in writing. — twenty five years ago, world leaders made a promise: to protect and fulfil the rights of all children. rights to grow up safe and healthy, to express their views, and fulfil their potential. but the reality is that, 25 years on, that promise remains unfulfilled for millions of children throughout the world. today, 18 000 children under the age of five still die every day from preventable causes; as many as 1.5 billion children are at risk of violence annually; and 1 in 3 children in developing countries are malnourished. these are just some of the statistics which prove that, while much progress has indeed been made, much remains to be done. the eu has a key role to play in changing this picture and fulfilling the rights of all children – both within the eu and beyond.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the report on ‘the eu and the global development framework after 2015’ because i believe it is important that we acknowledge what has been achieved with the millennium development goals (mdgs), but also that we develop a strong development framework after 2015 to address what has not achieved with the mdgs. the eu needs to take a strong leadership role in this global development framework as the world’s biggest development aid donor.
mr president, the failings within the europe 2020 strategy are clearly linked to the overriding austerity agenda of the european semester. we have been calling on the council and the commission to end the policy of austerity and to stop putting pressure on salaries and labour. the commission should instead launch new policies which would create jobs and promote training, research and innovation, education, reducing poverty, and the fight against climate change. we are asking the council and the commission to embed europe 2020 targets in a new social and economic governance architecture which sits on an equal footing with the economic goals and is linked to an ambitious social agenda. we have tried to introduce such issues into the resolution but unfortunately they have not been incorporated meaningfully enough, and for these reasons we abstain in this vote.
in writing. — the employment and social dimension of european integration is a key element of the europe 2020 strategy, which aims at ensuring ‘inclusive growth’. four years after its launch, the european commission has begun a review of this strategy. the european parliament, for its part, is preparing a resolution on the employment and social aspects of the europe 2020 strategy. the crisis has highlighted the importance of labour markets, welfare systems and social inclusion in strengthening socio-economic policies, and made the need for reinforcement of the social dimension of the new eu ‘economic governance’ evident. in october 2013, the european commission (ec) proposed a new early-warning tool – the scoreboard of key employment and social indicators – to ensure better integration of employment and social policies into the european semester, and this has been implemented as from the 2014 cycle.
the gue/ngl group is the leader. the president is elected by virtually every member of parliament and this is going to be an important part of the budget for europe. you must not play with that in the himpleachtaí do-ghlactha. however, due to this situation, the laws of the european union on the free movement of workers have not yet been put into effect, especially those which would allow for the creation of jobs. this is all happening in a time when the member states of europe are struggling; in a time when the european union is on the verge of its third anniversary, and in a time when we are in the midst of the construction of the eu. we can't let the same thing happen again in 2015. there are no resources to test the phoist and the fas. sin is an undertaking to thug an chomhairle dúinn. the impact of this situation on the 2014-2020 programme is far-reaching, with no laws, and the financial sustainability of the least-developed parts of society. the commission is also responsible for the implementation of the national programmes, the development of the national programmes and the establishment of the national research centres. people are staying on what was promised to them, and they're not willing to stay on the council because they've taken on too much love. the naked strategy is to test it and then to test it early. if we're going to get air from the 2014 budget now, how are we going to get air from the 2015 budget? it is this that is damaging the credibility of the european union and it is the responsibility of the member states to ensure that the european union is able to pay its debts and to deal with the consequences of its failure. it's just too far; we can't go on in there.
we now continue with the debate on the question for oral answer o-000080/2014 – b8-0039/2014 – 2014/2916(rsp).
it was more a statement, but i will give you the floor to respond.
madam president, may i say to the commissioner that i welcome the proposal that we have an eu year to end violence against women to acknowledge this issue. i also, commissioner, welcome your strategy on equality between men and women to include a chapter on gender-based violence. i think that would be very important. we have all spoken here today about violence against women and asked how we can move forward in this area. one area where we can move forward is to ratify – for everybody to ratify – the istanbul convention. commissioner, you said that only eight countries have ratified this convention. my own country has not ratified the convention. i have spoken to our minister for justice, and we intend to do it by this time next year, when everything is in place. we have had difficulties with constitutional rights and property rights under our constitution when it comes to barring orders. but i think this is the single issue that is in front of us all: that only eight members have ratified the istanbul convention, while twenty have not. i think this is a question for us all here today. if we could do that, we would be one step forward in unifying our fight against violence across all sectors.
commissioner jourová, thank you for your great humanity and your openness in terms of your own experience of violence. when we quote statistics we do need to personalise it, so i am sure it has been difficult for you to do that. but i think it has been appreciated by the house, and thank you for it. the debate is closed. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the debate on– the oral question to the council on the situation in the mediterranean and the need for a holistic eu approach to migration by claude moraes, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (o-000078/2014 – (2014/2907(rsp)) – b8-0037/2014), and– the oral question to the commission on the situation in the mediterranean and the need for a holistic eu approach to migration by claude moraes, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (o-000079/2014 – (2017/2907(rsp)) – b8-0038/2014).
member of the commission. - mr president, the commission is firmly committed to improving working conditions and, in particular, health and safety at work. the new eu strategic framework that was adopted in june reflects this commitment. the european union has a comprehensive body of legislation on health and safety at work in place already. our new strategic framework complements the legal acquis by promoting a holistic culture of prevention. it also provides a framework for coordinating national policies and improving implementation. the framework identifies three main challenges: to improve implementation of occupational health and safety legislation, in particular by enhancing the capacity of small and micro enterprises to put in place effective risk preventive measures; to improve prevention of work-related diseases by tackling existing, new and emerging risks; and thirdly, to address demographic change and the ageing of the workforce. on these points we can make progress only with the active collaboration of all the relevant stakeholders. the commission is working closely with the member states, the european agency for safety and health at work, the tripartite advisory committee on health and safety at work and the senior labour inspectors committee to ensure appropriate implementation of these existing rules. the agency and the two committees are reviewing their work programmes in light of the new strategic framework. i will continue to involve the social partners, including through sectoral dialogue when appropriate. with the assistance of the tripartite advisory committee on health and safety at work, the commission intends to develop a tool to monitor better the implementation of the framework. i take note of your request in the oral question to introduce specific indicators in this regard. several measures are being implemented already, such as the online interactive risk assessment tool developed by the agency and a europe-wide training programme for labour inspectors. a study on improving labour inspections in small and micro enterprises in the area of health and safety at work is currently under preparation. a number of user-friendly good-practice guides are already available with a view to supporting smes and micro-enterprises. in line with the regulatory fitness and performance programme, the new strategic framework sets as an objective simplifying and rationalising the legal framework, in particular for smes, while at the same time ensuring the same level of protection. in this regard, the commission has launched an ex post evaluation of 24 existing directives. the results are expected for the end of 2015. furthermore, the framework highlights the need to address the impact on physical and mental health of changes in work organisation – a point which parliament also underlined. it further acknowledges the need to improve statistics related to occupational safety and to set up a database. statistics are critical to identify the various hazards, and your suggestions will be taken into account. finally, let me mention that the results of the ongoing evaluation of the occupational safety and health directives will be determined to decide about possible new legislative initiatives. occupational safety and health legislation should be evidence-based, and any new proposal will be based on a thorough impact assessment.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i would like to thank the commissioner for her response. however, i think it is important that we underscore what we are talking about here, because every year, more than 4 000 workers die in the eu due to accidents at work. more than three million workers are victims of accidents that mean they have to take more than three days off work. i mean, those are hugely significant figures. we are talking about 11 people every day who die from workplace accidents and over 8 000 who are injured. that is why this question was put to the commission, and while there are a number of specific questions here, and i do not expect the commissioner to answer all of them – i just want to ask, maybe to tease out one or two of the issues that we have raised here. when we talked about measurable goals with fixed timetables and periodic evaluation, i just want to ask: has any progress been made on, let us say, improving coverage of statistics, on reliability, on comparability, on the timeliness? is there any specific progress that we can point to? what actions have been taken in order to promote exchange of good practices? for example, where smes might be mentored or supported by larger enterprises in the contractor-supplier-purchaser chain, have we any examples of that? we have heard a lot of talk about straightforward legislation and user-friendly guides. i think some of those may have been provided by osha, but again, if the commissioner can give me any detail on that? the issue of gender and age-specific disaggregated statistics is very important, because i believe that if we can get our hands on that information, it will deliver better policy outcomes. so again, is there is any progress on that? two final points. in a recent eurobarometer study, workers considered stress to be the main occupational risk – 53% of them. now i know that the european agency for health and safety at work is running an awareness-raising campaign – the healthy workplaces campaign – but, given that it is such a high risk, i think that we need greater intervention on this issue and i think more needs to be done. i just want to ask the commissioner if there are any proposals at all to promote a healthy environment and mental wellbeing at work. finally, you will be aware that during the last mandate the commission were proposing, at least, that we might have a directive on musculoskeletal diseases. that was dropped by the council, but again, if we go to that same survey carried out by eurobarometer, we see that one in every four says that ergonomic risks are very significant. so in that context, again, while i am not suggesting that we might look at a directive – but the last commission thought it was necessary – has the commissioner any thoughts in mind as to how we might deal with that issue in a more effective way?
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – mr president, i welcome the opportunity for this debate on health and safety in the workplace, and i welcome the commission’s declared desire to protect workers. however, i feel we cannot on the one hand introduce measures to protect workers while on the other hand we pursue policies that are leading to precarious and insecure working conditions. part-time and precarious work is becoming the norm, and ireland – my country – has had a 46% increase since 2008 in the number of workers who are underemployed. the psychosocial health impacts this phenomenon has on workers cannot be underestimated. job insecurity and the pressure of irregular hours causes significant stress for workers and leads to sick days. many of these workers are trapped in jobs that do not pay a living wage. these low wages then negatively impact on their ability to access healthcare and nutritious food. so if we are to truly engage with the issue of health and safety for the working population, then we must also tackle the issue of low pay and insecure working conditions.
a uachtaráin, ar maidin sa pharlaimint thug an pápa proinsias i an-óráid dúinn agus insan óráid sin luaigh se dínit, go háirithe dínit an duine. i was in the audience with the pope, and i was listening to the pope's speech. he said it was one of the best ways to tell people what to do, and what to do; but they didn't know what to do, and they didn't know what to do, and they didn't know what to do, and they didn't know what to do. but there is no good reason to give people money when they are safe instead of working, and it is clear that money is not being spent in the back rooms of the house. the only thing that was on the air in latvia was the fact that the tubaiste had been removed from the monarchy and the monarch had been removed from power. my colleague marian harkin called the statistics about people going to the beach to die instead of their jobs to be put on the spot. however, it is clear that it is important to focus on this issue and that a strategy to implement it as soon as possible is needed. if we can do it without doing it, we will do it safely and we will do it in a way that will make the pope happy and we will do it in europe.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i should like to thank the commissioner for her response, and i note her concern about the implementation of these anti-discrimination directives. what i would say to you, commissioner, is that there is a paradox with regard to anti-discrimination legislation at eu level, and it is this: i believe many europeans are generally aware that we have anti-discrimination legislation, and indeed that we have equality in the area of employment. yet, reading your own reports, all available information suggests that there are very low levels of reporting, and indeed, in your report which was published last january, you gave the commonest reasons for this. these include: the belief that nothing will happen as a result of reporting; a lack of knowledge on how to go about reporting an incident; and also negative experiences in relation to inconvenience, bureaucracy and, crucially, the length of the process. so again, your report goes on to say that there is a need to make further efforts at awareness-raising and reporting, and a need to make the complaint system more consumer-friendly, as it were, or customer-friendly. i think we need proposals on how to deal with these barriers on access to justice. we could look, for example, at the length of time during which a complaint could be made, getting rid of the short time limits that are there. we could also look at the cost of proceedings, and i think in all of that we need to link in with national actors on the ground. i think the issue of remedies – and one of our colleagues said a few moments ago that some employers would prefer to pay the costs rather than comply with the legislation – is a very important one, and the practice seems in most member states to be that national authorities apply the lower scale of the sanctions available. i know the commission perhaps cannot intervene directly, but it is an important issue and it is one that makes a difference, because if sanctions are not dissuasive then they are meaningless. on the whole issue of the shift in the burden-of-proof argument, where it is up to the respondent to prove there has been no discrimination, is that working satisfactorily and do you feel that any further action is needed? finally, in the context of the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, we have ratified that and, of course, that has certain implications for our legislation, particularly in the area of reasonable accommodation for disabled persons. do you believe that the ratification of the un convention will be meaningful – that was the second question we asked you – without any further action to make the non-provision of reasonable accommodation a discriminatory action? as ms lope fontagné has already said, it does not need to be costly.
a uachtaráin, ar dtús ba mhaith liom a rá go raibh mé sásta tacaíocht a thabhairt do mo ghrúpa sna vótaí go léir; agus glacadh leo uile. freisin, tá moladh ag dul don rapóirtéir, kay swinburne, as ucht an jab maith a rinne sí san ábhar casta seo. dar ndóigh tá dul chun cinn iontach déanta ag an mbanc seo le blianta beaga anuas, go háirithe ó tháinig an tuachtarán draghi isteach agus tá moladh ag dul dó faoi sin. it is good that the bank has more powers, but also more responsibilities. this revised mechanism should help ensure that we learn from the mistakes that were made at the time of the recession. but in relation to ireland, we are having a banking inquiry at central level shortly, and it has been requested that the european central bank cooperate in that inquiry. that may take one form or another, but i think it is important that they will be seen to give as much information as possible according to their remit, so that the irish people can see exactly what happened and learn the lessons of the recession and the crisis.
madam president, at a meeting last week of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, mario draghi informed members that the ecb would not in fact be participating in an inquiry into the banking crisis in ireland, which is currently ongoing in the oireachtas – the irish houses of parliament. we in ireland know too well the disregard that the ecb has for ordinary families and local communities, not to mention our domestic economy. that was very evident as a result of the troika-imposed austerity measures that have resulted in mass emigration and increased levels of poverty. that the ecb has now put on the record that it also intends to disregard an elected parliament of a member state is simply unacceptable. reading the title of this report ‘the power of the ecb to impose sanctions’, i could not help but wonder: who has the power to impose sanctions on the ecb? because the ecb’s role in exacerbating the irish financial and banking crisis and its failure now to even engage in a parliamentary inquiry into those events is unacceptable and should be challenged by members of this house.
in writing. — the regulation is necessary in order to give practical effect to article 34(3) of the statute of the european system of central banks (escb), which provides that, within the limits and under the conditions adopted by the council, the ecb is entitled to impose fines or periodic penalty payments on undertakings for failure to comply with its regulations and decisions. the fines and periodic penalty payments imposed by the ecb are subject to the following limits: fines: the upper limit is eur 500 000; periodic penalty payments: the upper limit is eur 10 000 per day of infringement. periodic penalty payments may be imposed in respect of a maximum period of six months following the notification of the decision to the undertaking. the decision on the appropriate sanction is based on the principle of proportionality. under the regulation, the executive board of the ecb has the power to decide whether an infringement has occurred and whether sanctions should be imposed; however, the national central banks may initiate and also conduct part of the infringement procedure.
a uachtaráin, tá áthas orm a rá gur thug mé tacaíocht do mo ghrúpa sna vótaí go léir anseo, agus dar ndóigh tá an-jab déanta ag karl-heinz florenz mar a dhéanann sé i gcónaí. freisin, tá moladh ag dul duit féin as ucht an tslí a rinne tú do jab inniu – go héifeachtach agus go neamhspleách. maidir leis an ábhar seo, bhí mé ag an díospóireacht anseo níos luaithe agus tá níos mó dóchais faoin ábhar seo anois ná mar a bhí le cúig bliana anuas, nó níos mó b’fhéidir. is dócha go n-éireoidh níos fearr linn i líoma agus i bpáras amach anseo ná mar a d’éirigh linn i kyoto blianta ó shin. ag an gcruinniú mullaigh cúpla mí ó sin, bhí áthas orm gur tugadh aird faoi leith ar chúrsaí talmhaíochta agus an áit speisialta atá ag an tionscal sin san ábhar seo, ach freisin chun bia a sholáthar don domhan. is maith go bhfuil an tuiscint seo ann anois.
in writing. — climate change represents an urgent and potentially irreversible threat to human societies, biodiversity and the planet, and therefore, must be addressed at international level. the negative impact of climate-change is already visible in natural and human systems on all continents and across the oceans. the eu negotiators attending the upcoming un climate summit in lima must do their utmost to ensure that significant progress is made towards achieving a new global climate agreement next year and avoid a 2°c rise in global temperature. the eu must remain to the fore and broker the best possible deal. the lima summit, and the summit in paris next year will test eu diplomacy. a sort of ‘paris alliance’ for a legally binding climate deal should be established in order to guarantee success. sufficient funding must be granted for climate protection. usd 10 billion have been allocated so far but we must find a way to reach 100 billion.
in writing. — we need to adapt to climate change. adaptation strategies are needed at all levels of administration: at the local, regional, national, eu and also the international level. the ability to cope and adapt also differs across populations, economic sectors and regions within europe. the commission adopted an eu adaptation strategy in april 2013 which has been welcomed ireland and other member states. complementing irish initiatives that are already in force, the strategy supports action by promoting greater coordination and information-sharing between member states, and by ensuring that adaptation considerations are addressed in all relevant eu policies.
mr president, i want to welcome this resolution – this report – and to congratulate mrs mcavan for this work. i think it is important to recognise that we have seen significant progress in the area of malnutrition in the course of the last number of years and, as we go into next year – 2015 – not just in terms of the millennium goals but also in terms of the focus in the european union for the european year of development, we need to prioritise this issue to make sure that there is a strong focus within the commission, within parliament, on making sure we make progress. as other colleagues have said, every single day, 22 000 children die of malnutrition, and 90% of those deaths are within asia and africa. every single death is preventable, and i think we need to ensure that the political will is in place to resolve this issue once and for all. colleagues have spoken about the need to support farmers in the developing world, to make sure that they have the right equipment, the right technology, to make sure they have support. we have also spoken about the need to improve diet, to make sure that there is a sustainable food supply. we have also spoken about the need to ensure that discrimination, especially discrimination against women, is tackled within the developing world, and the position of women in terms of education at home and in the workplace also needs to be tackled. we also have to encourage greater use of breastfeeding to avoid contaminated water; and i think, crucially, a plan needs to be built around a child’s first 1 000 days, which other people have spoken about. the first two years are crucial in terms of getting on top of the problem of malnutrition. i think tackling food price volatility and food price security is another issue that we need to address. even though progress has been made, much more can be done, and if we resolve to do this together, working with other partners throughout the world, i believe that we can address this even further.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, it is hard to read this resolution without becoming disgusted and indeed nauseated to think that in the 21st century we have, as reported here, physical and sexual assault, sexual slavery, trafficking, enforced marriage, women and girls sold in open markets, women and girls bought with price tags for the buyers to choose and negotiate the sale, and then self-appointed courts which condemn women to death on spurious grounds and shoot them in the back of the head. it is time, i think, for a new order at international level. when red lines are crossed as clearly as they are here, there has to be some way of intervening to save the lives and dignity of women and young girls in particular. also of immediate concern are the winter needs for the recently displaced, and hopefully at european level we can do something about that immediately.
in writing. — i have decided not to lend my support to a motion spearheaded by the far-right, and have instead co-signed a proposal to set up a committee of inquiry to investigate breaches of eu law in relation to tax rulings issued by member states. aggressive tax planning by multinational corporations has reached such a scale that its impact on eu member states’ public finances is not just a matter of fairness and justice. it actually jeopardises our very ability to fund and pursue public policy necessary to meet our citizens’ needs. schemes that allow big companies to get away with paying fractions of 1% in tax are unacceptable and insulting to everyone who works for a salary and pays income tax. member states increasingly coordinate budgetary discipline and pro-market structural reforms with their eu partners, yet tackling extreme forms of tax competition remains taboo. in this context, the very least we can do is shed light on these practices and make sure that the rules we have are enforced in the first place.
in writing. — the european commission has faced a censure motion in the european parliament after right-wing, and far-right eurosceptic lawmakers united to put this motion on the table for plenary. a lack of support for the censure motion from most other parties always made it unlikely that a two-third majority required to force the commission from office would be achieved. instead we had nothing more than the populist parties trying to do what is popular rather than what is right. they have proven once again that they are more interested in being celebrates than lawmakers, looking to make headlines not laws. a headline does not provide help to the unemployed youth of europe who are seeking jobs, action does, and initiatives do. so i say to those populist parties who cherish headlines, why not walk the walk, rather than talk the talk.
a uachtaráin, táim i bhfabhar an rúin seo ar chomóradh fiche cúig bliain den choinbhinsiún um chearta an linbh agus táim sásta go bhfuil an seans againn cearta páistí agus daoine óga a chur cun tosaigh ar chlár an aontais eorpaigh. caithfimid cearta páistí a chur cun tosaigh ar fud an domhain agus a chinntiú go bhfuil ceart acu maireachtáil in áit gan chogadh agus na rudaí uafásacha a thagann leis. chomh maith leis sin, caithfimid díriú ar pháistí mar gurb iadsan a gortaíodh agus a ionsaíodh le linn na géarchéime mar gheall ar na beartais déine go léir.
a uachtaráin, is dóigh liom gur ceart agus gur cóir dúinn díriú ar chearta an linbh, go háirithe an bhliain thábhachtach seo – 25 bliana tar éis choinbhinsiún na náisiún aontaithe. cé go bhfuil dul chun cinn maith déanta ina lán slite, ag an am céanna caithfear i bhfad níos mó a dhéanamh go háirithe ó thaobh oideachais de, ó thaobh sláinte de agus ó thaobh cothromaíochta de. maidir le hoideachas, ba chóir go bhfaigheadh gach páiste oideachas a oireann dá dtallann agus a thabharfaidh seans dóibh jab maith a fháil ag deireadh na dála. gan sláinte, ní féidir saol sásúil a bheith ag duine. go háirithe, ó thaobh cothromaíochta de; níl cothromaíocht ghnéis ann idir buachaillí agus cailíní ina lán áiteanna, mar a dúirt charles tannock cúpla nóiméad ó shin. dá bhrí sin tá sé an-tábhachtach dúinne san aontas eorpach a bheith ar an airdeall agus rudaí mar sin a chur i bhfeidhm.
in writing. — twenty five years ago, world leaders made a promise: to protect and fulfil the rights of all children. rights to grow up safe and healthy, to express their views, and fulfil their potential. but the reality is that, 25 years on, that promise remains unfulfilled for millions of children throughout the world. today, 18 000 children under the age of five still die every day from preventable causes; as many as 1.5 billion children are at risk of violence annually; and 1 in 3 children in developing countries are malnourished. these are just some of the statistics which prove that, while much progress has indeed been made, much remains to be done. the eu has a key role to play in changing this picture and fulfilling the rights of all children – both within the eu and beyond.
a uachtaráin, dar ndóigh aontaímid go léir go bhfuil sé an-tábhachtach an margadh aonair a thabhairt isteach go hiomlán chomh luath agus is féidir agus cabhróidh sé sin linn éalú as an gcúlú eacnamaíochta agus jabanna agus fás agus borradh a bheith againn san aontas. vótáil mé leis an ngrúpa sna vótaí go léir, ach le heisceacht amháin. sin an leasú ar an dara cuid de pharagraf 10 – an vóta trí ghlao rolla, mar labhraíonn sé faoi ‘unbundling of search engines from other commercial services’. is dóigh liom féin go bhfuil sé beagáinín róluath a bheith ag caint ar nó ag déanamh rudaí mar sin, mar caithfimid féachaint ar cad a tharlóidh má dhéantar é. go háirithe, ceapaimid go gcuirfeadh sé isteach go mór, b’fhéidir, ar fhiontair bheaga agus mheánmhéide inár dtír féin agus b’fhéidir i dtíortha eile. dá bhrí sin, vótálamar i gcoinne an leasaithe sin cé gur glacadh leis le móramh mór.
mr president, this topic is somewhat related to the previous one about the 25th anniversary of the convention on the rights of the child. the first thing anybody needs in life is to be able to eat enough, and particularly eat enough of the proper foods. as has been said, this is, unfortunately, not happening in many parts of the world and maybe also within the european union. nevertheless, i do not think the european union deserves any criticism, because we have the record of being the biggest donor in development humanitarian aid in the world. at the same time, we can always improve, and certainly, where there are issues which are highlighted in this report, it is very important that we look at them and see how we can improve matters, particularly in helping these countries – third countries in particular – to do things better from the point of view of sustainable agriculture and general practices. so i think this was a good motion, and i was pleased to support it and vote with my group in all matters.
mr president, just one point of order. i was going to raise it during the votes but i did not want to be holding up the house and i did not want to put you, mr president, who has done an excellent job, perhaps in a comprising position. it was in relation to the oral amendment – i think it was amendment no 11 – which we discussed in relation to the impact assessment. we took a roll call vote and then the alde representative stood up and put an oral amendment. that is the way i understood it. normally i would have seen oral amendments being taken before the amendment is put. so i was just wondering: is that an explanation for it, rather, an explanation of vote?
in writing. — with 3.1 million child deaths each year in developing countries, undernutrition is the single biggest contributor to mortality in under-fives. ngos have pushed for the fight against child undernutrition, and provision of universal access to adequate nutritious food, to remain one of the major targets of the post-2015 millennium development goals’ agenda for both the eu and the broader international community. the wfp calculates that eur 2.5 billion is needed per year to reach all 66 million school-age children in developing countries suffering from hunger. the wfp emphasises also that, if women farmers had the same access to resources as men, the number suffering from hunger in the world could be reduced by up to 150 million.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – madam president, i welcome today’s recommendation for the eu’s accession to the convention on international trade in endangered species of plants and animals. the european union cannot be found wanting in its actions, and it cannot allow species like the african elephant and rhino to be consigned to the history books. 22 000 african elephants were killed for their ivory in 2012 alone. 95% of the world’s rhinos have been wiped out in the last forty years, and let us also not forget all the other less well-known species that are illegally traded on a daily basis. the impact that losses like these have on ecosystems is catastrophic. the eu and member states must, of course, comply with obligations under this convention, but it is one thing to ban or limit trade and it is another to effectively enforce it. one cannot ignore the fact that the vast majority of this illegal trade is carried out in the developing world in conflict zones. the eu, of course, should support these countries where they lack equipment and funds for enforcement, but we must also look at the bigger picture. if annual turnover for the illegal trade is estimated to be usd 19 billion – making it the fourth-largest illegal trade in the world – the extreme poverty of many african communities lends itself to this trade. when the tusks of a single adult elephant are worth more than ten times the average annual income in many of these countries, is it any wonder that impoverished people resort to wildlife trade?
colleagues, as you know, our rapporteur ms ayuso was unavailable to speak in the debate. she was replaced by ms herranz garcía who is not available at the moment to speak, so i thank everyone for their contributions. (end of catch-the-eye procedure)
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 16 december 2014. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on implementation of the fuel quality directive (2014/2995 (rsp)).
a uachtaráin, ó a bheith ag éisteacht leis an díospóireacht ón tús, tá sé soiléir domsa ar aon nós nach nglacfar leis na moltaí seo. ní hé sin le rá nach bhfuil na feisirí i bhfabhar feabhas a dhéanamh ar an ábhar seo. táimid ag caint faoina chur siar ar feadh tamaillín mar a dúirt wim van de camp agus nílimid ag caint faoina chur ar ceal ar fad. má thógann an coimisiún an seans sin chun éisteacht leis na pointí atá luaite ag na feisirí anseo anocht agus a thriall iad a chur san áireamh nuair a bheidh siad ag déanamh athbhreithniú ar na moltaí is féidir linn moltaí an-mhaith a bheith againn a sheasfaidh an fód agus a chabhróidh leis an lucht oibre agus lucht taistil chomh maith. mar shampla, luadh go háirithe dumpáil shóisialta. gan dabht ar bith is fadhb mhór é sin. ní féidir linn cur suas leis agus caithfimid gach iarracht a dhéanamh deireadh a chur leis. dúradh freisin go háirithe a mhéid a bhaineann leis an iodáil agus faoi chabatáiste mídhleathach. arís is fadhb é sin. níl sé féaráilte do na hoibrithe agus ba chóir dúinn riail shimplí ach fhéaráilte a thabhairt isteach a dhéileálann leis an bhfadhb sin. freisin tá sé an-tábhachtach go mbeadh páirc imeartha leibhéalta againn do gach aon tír agus bʼfhéidir gur cheart dúinn féachaint ar cad tá ag tarlú ina lán tíortha. i mo thír féin, mar shampla, tá an roinn tar éis foirm foirm iarratais mheastóireachta a thabhairt isteach a dhéanann na gardaí ar na daoine atá ag lorg ceadúnas sular féidir leo gnó taistil a bhunú. is dóigh liom gur fiú féachaint air sin agus bʼfhéidir iad a thabhairt isteach ar fud na heorpa. dá bhrí sin, ba chóir dúinn féachaint ar rialacha comónta a bheith againn agus ansin monatóireacht chomónta a bheith againn ina dhiaidh.
mr president, road transport is extremely important across europe. commissioner, when you see the investment, you are probably looking at ten-t funding and establishing the trans-european networks and transport corridors. this is a signal of just how important road transport is in terms of getting business done, taking advantage of the single european market, and ensuring that goods from outermost regions – like my own country of ireland – can get to the markets they want to access. there have been many contributions here tonight which will show you that there is dissatisfaction with the proposal: it is vague and it is not specific. that is really what the members in my own group, and others i have heard here tonight, want from you. everybody wants to have greater harmonisation of standards. i think that is essential when we are talking about improving road safety: safety of passengers and of individuals. we want to improve the professional standing of transport and prevent unscrupulous firms from exploiting workers. we want to protect workers and their conditions. i think that everybody is united on that, but it is how we go about it that is the problem. i do not think there is too much of a distance between the parliament here and you, madam commissioner. with a little more time spent on this, the views of the members can certainly be addressed. with road safety, the human factor is very much part of it. you cannot eliminate that, but you can always try to prevent it and create situations whereby the human factor can be eliminated. hopefully the success you have had in road safety, where you have been trying to get to a position where we share information across member states as regards driving offences, can be repeated in this area. i would hope that the commissioner will be able to come forward at a later stage, should this be rejected, with proposals which are more specific, and not vague such as those we have had today.
mr president, before the end of this year, the governor of the irish central bank will sell a sovereign bond worth eur 500 million, and then he will immediately destroy that money. i do not know if he will press a button or light a flame, but eur 500 million will vanish. the irish people will immediately start to pay interest on the disappeared eur 500 million and in 24 years’ time will still have to repay the eur 500 million to the bondholders. but this is not a once-off. for the next five years, we destroy eur 500 million per year; for the next five years after that, we destroy eur 1 billion per year; and for the next eight years, we destroy eur 2 billion per year. we pay the interest and the principal to the tune of approximately eur 80 billion to bail out a failed, insolvent bank. and why? at the time, we did it to prevent contagion in the eu banking system. they were desperate times, and desperate measures were called for. but those times have passed. we in ireland are drowning in debt, with our debt-to-gnp ratio at approximately 150%. this illegal, odious bank debt must be dealt with and lifted from the shoulders of 4.5 million irish citizens.
mr president, as we all know, smes – and we constantly hear it – are the backbone of our society, and they will be essential for economic recovery across europe. smes, whether they are employing five, ten, twenty or even fifty individuals, are started by an entrepreneur in general. it is a term we have come to use frequently, but it is a person who has the confidence, the ability and the brains to start a new business: somebody who has ambition and is willing to take risks. i do not think we are doing enough for young people to encourage them to become entrepreneurs, to give them the confidence to know that they too can start a business. we need to invest in our education system; we need to ensure that young people’s minds are open to the fact that they can be entrepreneurs and that they can have the ability to start their own business, even if it is only one or two employees that they may have. we also need to include suitable modules in our third-level sectors and in our colleges and universities to get young people thinking that they too have the possibilities to become entrepreneurs or business starters and employ people as well as themselves in developing our future economies.
in writing. – i voted in favour of emily o’reilly for re-election to the role of european ombudsman. i was pleased to be one of the many meps to sign her nomination. it is evident by the fact that ms o’reilly was unopposed for this position that, in her relatively short period in the job, she has earned the good will and esteem of those of every political persuasion. as ireland’s ombudsman from 2003 and in the office of european ombudsman since 2013 emily o’reilly has won the confidence of ordinary citizens as someone who is ‘on their side’. she has a big challenge ahead of her. the european institutions have lost the confidence of citizens and communities across many member states. in many cases the manner in which the council and commission carry out their roles in secrecy, without transparency and with minimal public consultation, exacerbates this loss of confidence. i am extremely hopeful that emily o’reilly will be up to that job.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of emily o’reilly for re-election to the role of european ombudsman. i was pleased to be one of the many meps to sign her nomination. it is evident by the fact that ms o’reilly was unopposed for this position that, in her relatively short period in the job, she has earned the good will and esteem of those of every political persuasion. as ireland’s ombudsman from 2003 and in the office of european ombudsman since 2013 emily o’reilly has won the confidence of ordinary citizens as someone who is ‘on their side’. she has a big challenge ahead of her. the european institutions have lost the confidence of citizens and communities across many member states. in many cases the manner in which the council and commission carry out their roles in secrecy, without transparency and with minimal public consultation, exacerbates this loss of confidence. the european ombudsman has the responsibility to challenge these cultures within the european institutions. as major decisions will be made in the next few years, including a possible conclusion on the ttip negotiations, the ombudsman will have serious work to do in demanding accountability. i am extremely hopeful that emily o’reilly will be up to that job.
in writing. ‒ i voted for emily o’reilly as ombudsman. ms o’reilly has consistently represented the rights of the citizens of the european union. she has done so with true professionalism and with dignity. i would feel it important that she is allowed to continue the good work that she has been doing within her office.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this motion because the proposal repeals directive 93/5/eec on assistance to the commission and cooperation by the member states in the scientific examination of questions relating to food. the aim of this directive initially was to ensure the smooth running of the scientific committee on food. in 2002, however, the scientific tasks entrusted to the scientific committee on food were taken over by the european food safety authority (efsa) and decision 97/579/ec establishing the scientific committee on food was repealed. directive 93/5/eec has thus become obsolete.
in writing. ‒ i supported mr la viaʼs report because this is an example of how refit is being used to delete obsolete legislation – in this case directive 93/5/eec. this helps to ensure a simple, predictable regulatory framework for businesses, workers and eu citizens. regulation 178/2002 established the european food safety authority (efsa) as the competent body to promote scientific cooperation with member states and to replace the scientific committee on food referred to in directive 93/5/eec. this now means directive 93/5/eec is obsolete and should be repealed.
madam president, the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora is a major international instrument and this motion allows the eu to become part of that. the primary aim of the convention is to ensure that international trade in specimens of wild animals and plants does not threaten their survival. this trade and associated levels of exploitation of some animal and plant species is capable of heavily depleting their populations and even bringing some species close to extinction. because the trade in wild animals and plants crosses borders between countries, the effort to regulate it requires international cooperation to safeguard certain species from over-exploitation. as well as associated cruelty and loss of national heritage, decreased biodiversity, however it occurs, has a knock-on impact on people and industries around the globe and cannot be taken too seriously. the sinn féin meps supported this resolution.
in writing. – i voted against the motion ‘on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the cooperation agreement on a civil global navigation satellite system (gnss) between the european community and its member states and the kingdom of morocco’. the report states that the kingdom of morocco can join the european gnss agreement. the gnss is incredibly expensive, currently securing eur 6.3 billion under the mff. further, the eu gnss agency says on its homepage that galileo is only to be used for civilian purposes, but it states that law enforcement is a civil use. when you allow law enforcement to use the gnss system, it is only a small step to ‘law enforcement agencies’ using the system to track civilians under the guise of law enforcement, like the nsa is using the patriot act to ‘protect the state’.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the use of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for the 608 redundant workers who lost their jobs at whirlpool europe in italy. the application was made on the basis of at least 500 being made redundant over a reference period of four months in a member state. of these workers, 502 were involved in the primary enterprise and 106 in downstream producers. the impact of the crisis saw household consumption fall significantly in italy and household appliances were particularly badly hit. all the workers will attend information sessions while the majority will participate in general training and retraining and avail of counselling and guidance. employees will be able to avail of a eur 3 000 bonus if they hire a redundant worker on a permanent contract or eur 2 000 if this is for a fixed term contract.
in writing. ‒ i supported the mobilisation of eur 1.259 million of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for 777 redundant workers at fiat auto in poland where 829 workers were made redundant as production levels plummeted at the factory, while 250 workers were made redundant by suppliers. the egf monies to be spent include training of different types and also grants for self-employment. there is a significant amount of money available for hiring incentives when companies hire former fiat auto poland workers for 24 months.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the egf application from odyssefs fokas in greece where 600 workers lost their jobs. i am pleased to see the greek authorities using the possibility to include 500 neets in this application also. the high level of youth unemployment in greece means that it can use this option within the egf. the overall fund is eur 10.7 million with a eur 6.44 million contribution from the egf. 70% of this money is going to training, retraining, vocational training, business start-up and occupational guidance, with 30% earmarked for allowances such as job search allowance, training allowance and mobility allowance.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this egf report so as to make sure the workers concerned are given the best possible chance of reintegration into the labour market. however, i do note serious issues concerning the amount requested and the use of the funds. the funds are intended to help with the reintegration of beneficiaries into the labour market instead of providing them with salary replacement after being dismissed and i believe this is not the case with this particular mobilisation. i would like to have seen a much greater percentage of the find going to training, in order to assure a future in the labour market by those affected in this case. it is also the biggest mobilisation of the fund to date, which may have an impact on other mobilisations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this egf report so as to make sure the workers concerned are given the best possible chance of reintegration into the labour market. however, i do note serious issues concerning the amount requested and the use of the funds. the funds are intended to help with the reintegration of beneficiaries into the labour market instead of providing them with salary replacement after being dismissed and i believe this is not the case with this particular mobilisation. i would like to have seen a much greater percentage of the find going to training, in order to assure a future in the labour market by those affected in this case. it is also the biggest mobilisation of the fund to date, which may have an impact on other mobilisations.
in writing. ‒ i am happy to support the mobilisation of the egf for the 5 213 workers who were made redundant by air france in 2013. 60% of workers targeted were men and 69% were aged between 55 and 64. i was extremely disappointed that only 6.28% of the eur 51.8 million support (eur 26 million being the eu contribution) was spent on training and 42% on allowances foreseen under personalised services. in this context i am happy to say that the new regulation has capped those allowances at 35%. however it is positive that up to 955 workers can access grants up to eur 24 000 for setting up their own business. these grants can be paid in instalments once certain milestones have been reached.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this egf report so as to make sure the workers concerned are given the best possible chance of reintegration into the labour market. however, i do note serious issues concerning the amount requested and the use of the funds. the funds are intended to help with the reintegration of beneficiaries into the labour market instead of providing them with salary replacement after being dismissed and i believe this is not the case with this particular mobilisation. i would like to have seen a much greater percentage of the find going to training, in order to assure a future in the labour market by those affected in this case. it is also the biggest mobilisation of the fund to date, which may have an impact on other mobilisations.
the gue/ngl group is the main the president, i would like to thank my colleagues, the rapporteurs and the chair, and the house, and i would like to thank them for the work they have done to find a solution to this problem. it is clear that the 2015 budget has a major difference between a europe that works for the rich and a europe that works for the poor. is léir go bhfuil in the closures tubaisteacha fós slán agus go mbeidh daoine fós ag streachailt because in bpolasaithe déine seo. the commission has repeatedly called for the irish fishing industry to be given a boost by the introduction of a new quota system and has announced that it will allocate eur 908 million to the title ii programme. it is our responsibility to take care of the people who are sick among us. caithimid air to give to those who have not abolished air to give to them self and has been scannerrúil go bhfuil cabhair dhaonnúil níos ísle ná mar a bhí sé i 2014 by gearradh siar faoi cheannteideal 4. the commission also noted that unwra support had been reduced from eur 300 million to eur 286.5 million and that the annual cash payments to the refugees had been increased by a further eur 100 million. in addition, i would like to inform you about the juncker plan. the commission will present a draft budget in january, which will have an impact on the 2015 european budget, and the fact that it will be drawn from payments to the fifg under title 1a and title 1b. issues of this nature are to be dealt with in the following ways. (thoiligh an cainteoir glacadh le ceist card ghoirm faoi riail 162(8)) i was in the middle of a conversation with a friend.
i'm not going to answer that. i haven't just gone through it completely looking at where you have to be to have an unreachable support, but i have to be there. (dfhiafraigh an cainteoir an raibh translation is available. there must be clarity and there must be clarity on what is going on and where the money is going. there is no sin in it. (he said an cainteoir go raibh súil aici go raibh ateangaireacht ar fáil. he said that he had no hope of finding a way to get there.) )
the uachtaráin, is often called nach bhfuil anam ná crei ag poiteoirí agus go háirithe ag institiúidí more similar laws an aontas eorpach. we show our support for the people of moldova, especially farmers and families who are suffering from the policies of president putin. i can't read the fruits and carry them to russia. as the commissioner said, it is difficult to get a job without a job. so we're going to get the gcabhair on our shoulders. taispean se sin go bhfuil creí agus anam againn agus níos fearr fós, is féidir linn is to do gain cur cur cur cur cur in rmhor ar ar fheirmeoirí féin. taispean se sin go bhfuil creí agus anam againn agus níos fearr fós, is féidir linn is to do gain cur cur in rmhor ar ár fheirmeoirí féin. taispean se sin go bhfuil creí agus anam againn agus níos fearr fós, is féidir linn is to do gain cur in rmhor ar fheirmeoirí féin. the commissioner said that we are talking about less than 1% of the results we have in the eu. a friend in need is a friend indeed. moldova is in need and we are proving to be a friend indeed.
madam president, we may not have certainty but we have more clarity regarding president juncker’s proposals on his investment plan. i think it behoves all of us to get behind it, because if it is a success, all europe gains; if it fails, all europe fails. and particularly the council has a major responsibility. i think parliament is going to back it, from what i have heard this morning. it is in some respects rather sad that the president had to come in and ask council to commit to the proposals and to give the guarantees that are necessary. member states also have an obligation to carry out the structural reforms which have been committed to. as our leader, mr weber, pointed out this morning in answer to madam berès, ireland – which four or five years ago was regarded almost as a basket case – did take the hard medicine, despite the suffering of many people, and is now reaping the rewards of structural reform. we have about 4.8% growth this year. more importantly, mr juncker was speaking about trust – that means confidence, it means optimism. 30% of smes in ireland hope to take on at least one extra employee next year. that is what is needed because, as is often said, if every sme took on one extra employee, we would solve the unemployment problem in europe. so, economic growth that is sustainable; projects that are necessary and not vanity.
a uachtaráin, ghlacas páirt sa díospóireacht seo aréir, agus bhí díospóireacht an-taitneamhach againn. anois fáiltím roimh an gcinneadh atá déanta againn, agus dar ndóigh vótálas ina fhabhar – mar aon le 551 fheisire eile. is tromlach an-mhór é sin agus tugann sé dóchas do mhuintir na moldóive, go háirithe feirmeoirí beaga atá ag brath ar thorthaí agus a bhí go dtí seo ag easpórtáil go dtí an rúis. ach tá lámh throm curtha ag an rúis agus ag putin orthu agus ní raibh aon mhargaí eile acu. anois táimid ag tógaint na dtorthaí sin uathu. ní chuirfidh an méid sin isteach orainn go rómhór agus is maith sin. ach mar a dúras aréir, mar a deirtear i mbéarla: a friend in need is a friend indeed. agus táimid tar éis a thaispeáint anseo inniu gur féidir linn teacht i gcabhair ar ár gcomharsa in am an ghátair agus go háirithe ós rud é go bhfuilimid ag teacht chomh cóngarach don nollaig tá jab an-mhaith déanta againn inniu.
in writing. — i abstained from voting on autonomous trade preferences for the republic of moldova because of wider implications for relations with russia. on the one hand, this motion involves the inclusion of small quantities of fruits and vegetables which can be easily absorbed in the eu and provides an opportunity to prevent instability in a country which neighbours eu member states. on the other hand, there is a serious need to consider farmers who are already being hurt by the diplomatic failures between the eu and russia. we should be reminded by this threat of instability of the real and pressing need for the commission and council to act in a more strategic way to effect and deal with this diplomatic crisis.
in writing. — i abstained from voting on autonomous trade preferences for the republic of moldova because of wider implications for relations with russia. on the one hand, this motion involves the inclusion of small quantities of fruits and vegetables which can be easily absorbed in the eu and provides an opportunity to prevent instability in a country which neighbours eu member states. on the other hand, there is a serious need to consider farmers who are already being hurt by the diplomatic failures which have resulted in the russian ban. we should be reminded by this threat of instability of the real and pressing need for the commission and council to act in a more strategic way to effect and deal with this diplomatic crisis.
in writing. — i welcome moldova’s european option, recently reconfirmed by the election won by the pro-european forces, and i encourage the continuation of all necessary reform processes that would bring the country closer to the eu.
mr president, i voted in favour of the 2015 budget and, like many in this parliament, of course i would prefer a bigger budget but we have to remember it is taxpayers’ money. i voted against amendment 4, which asked to at least double the current amounts. this is to be achieved by raising the contributions of those member states with the highest gni or gdp. but ireland, a country which is burdened by debt, has the sixth highest in the eu of 28. we simply could not afford to increase our contributions to the budget so we have to be careful what we are asking for here. i also voted against amendment 5 because, while we do need to do more to support member states, we already do so through cohesion and cap funds, the social fund and horizon 2020. that is all we can do on the budget, unless of course we decrease the amount in some of those funds. i think, as many speakers have said, we need to look at how well we spend our money, how efficiently we spend our money, instead of constantly asking citizens for more. very often, and indeed in nearly all cases, citizens cannot afford it.
in writing. — i voted in favour of this resolution which rejects the commission’s weak draft regulation relating to fair conditions of competition for the road transport internal market. ireland is a small island nation, in which companies are forced to operate within two economic jurisdictions due to an enforced border. the westminster government has imposed an hgv levy which seeks to implement a charge on all heavy goods vehicles that cross the irish border in what is an unfair and unworkable barrier for businesses that operate on a cross-border basis. sinn féin has resisted the introduction of this levy since its inception. we have raised serious concerns about the deeply negative impact that it will have on cross-border and island-wide trade, which currently accounts for gbp 2.3 billion in economic activity per annum. the levy hurts businesses north and south. any legislation emanating from the commission should prevent member governments from implementing such measures.
in writing. — i voted for this motion for resolution as i did not think the commission’s list of serious infringements was comprehensive enough. the onus will now be on the commission to revisit the list of infringements with a view to creating a more realistic, comprehensive list that is less open to interpretation and reduces red tape.
in writing. — i voted in favour of this motion to reject the new fuel-quality standards proposed this year by the european commission. these watered-down proposals from the commission have given into the heavy lobbying efforts of the canadian government and will risk a significant increase of oil derived from tar sands into the european union. tar sands are highly polluting and it is very disappointing to see the european commission bow to oil industry pressure instead of prioritising the climate.
in writing. — i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on ‘draft council directive .../.../eu laying down calculation methods and reporting requirements pursuant to directive 98/70/ec of the european parliament and of the council relating to the quality of petrol and diesel fuels’. if passed, this motion could make it easier for fuel products from tar sands and shale (obtained from fracking) to enter the eu market. unconventional sources of fuel like tar sands, oil shale and coal-to-liquid have a higher ghg lifecycle intensity. this means that in order to make petrol or diesel from these kind of feedstocks, it will cost more energy and therefore emit more greenhouse gases.
in writing. — i voted in favour of this resolution because i do not believe that all fuel types should have the same average emissions value and to me that is crucial. our purpose here is to determine how the 6% reduction target in greenhouse gas emissions from fossil fuels for transport can be calculated. there is no point in having a target if we cannot measure that target with reasonable accuracy. for example tar sands have a carbon intensity of 20% above the level of commercial fuels, while the carbon intensity of oil sand is even higher – approximately 40% above the level of conventional fuels. yes, i understand there are issues in regard to estonia and we should have some kind of transitional arrangement but an outcome of today’s vote could be that there now is an incentive to bring these high-emission fuels to the eu market instead of driving investments into more sustainable low-carbon alternatives.
in writing. — i voted against the motion for resolution on the ‘commission delegated regulation of 20 october 2014 establishing a discard plan in the baltic sea’. a landing obligation means that all fish (up to a certain size – juveniles can be released again) that are caught need to be landed and counted against the fishermen’s quota. the reason for having this is to conserve the fish stock that is left in this highly overfished sea and try to keep the cod species alive in the baltic. this resolution objecting to the entry into force of the landing obligation on 1 january 2015 for the fisheries in the baltic sea would be environmentally unsustainable and would put the industry in this region into jeopardy.
in writing. - the iss has traditionally been a very unilateral security-oriented instrument, with a sole focus on repression without taking stock of the already existing security measures within member states, without virtually any account of fundamental rights, and without any involvement of civil society and relevant human rights organisations. it has been the basis for such instruments as the eu pnr, the data retention directive, europol’s cybercrime centre, the mandate for the strengthening of frontex and the deployment of eurosur; all of which have been problematic. the actors in this field are generally non-accountable, and neither is their exact mandate very clear this resolution particularly asks for the new iss to focus on the foreign fighters’ issues, and the commission seems eager to make this point the focal point of its next iss communication (perhaps to give a new boost to the already-defeated eu pnr directive). i take security seriously but that this iss is so unilaterally focused on immediate repression, without any look at broader geopolitical, socio-economic issues, that it is totally unbalanced and that is why i voted against this motion.
in writing. — the european parliament adopted a resolution on renewing the eu’s internal security strategy (iss). recent attacks in pakistan and australia show that security threats have become more varied, international, multiple and technologically advanced. as a group, the epp insists on closer cross-border and inter-agency cooperation. the new internal security strategy must also address the issue of european jihadists.
mr president, along with my colleagues, i supported the resolution in relation to palestinian statehood. i believe that it is a very welcome first step by this parliament, but i believe that this parliament and europe and our member states need to do much more in relation to supporting the palestinian people and ensuring that the palestinian state is not only recognised but is in fact a viable and operational state. only last summer we saw unprecedented, illegal and absolutely outrageous attacks by israel on the people of gaza. we have a responsibility as people elected by member states across the continent of europe to ensure that those attacks do not happen again, and to ensure that we stand up as communities and nations to israel, because its ongoing disregard for international law is unacceptable. i believe that today we have taken a first step, but it is only a very small step and lots more remains to be done.
mr president, i am really pleased that today the european parliament voted by a huge majority – with only 88 voting against – to recognise the state of palestine. i am also pleased to see a reference in today’s resolution to votes in the irish parliament. so at last we have a common view from this parliament that respects many of the sensitivities involved around the issue. when you see leaders from the epp, the socialists, the ecr, the liberals, the greens, largely in agreement – yes, there are some issues about timing – but they are largely in agreement, that is a step forward. yes, we know our vote today is symbolic but it clearly states the opinion of parliament in favour of recognition of a palestinian state and a two-state solution on the basis of the 1967 borders. there is real urgency about the current situation, and the continuing expansion of israeli settlements. the israelis need security, and the palestinians need their own borders – their own state. i hope that today’s resolution will play some small role in delivering peace to that region.
mr president, i am proud today that i voted in favour of this resolution. it is a step in the right direction for palestinian statehood, and although it is well overdue, resolutions such as this one are part of a growing movement across europe to support a palestinian state. this month the dáil in ireland added its voice to this growing movement by agreeing to the adoption of a sinn féin motion which called on the government to respect palestinians’ right to self-determination and to recognise the state of palestine. with israeli actions such as the recent devastating war in gaza and the aggressive expansion of illegal settlements in the west bank having serious impacts on the progression of talks, it is essential that the international community underlines its support for palestinian statehood. this resolution should send out a strong signal that palestinian statehood is essential to progress a meaningful peace process.
in writing. — i voted in favour of the joint resolution on the recognition of the palestinian state as a principled step in the right direction. recognition of the palestinian state, its people and its borders, and the end of the occupation is a long-overdue international obligation and a positive step towards peace. member states must now formally recognise and thus protect the space of the palestinian state on the 1967 borders with east jerusalem as the capital. palestinian recognition is established in un resolutions and a number of national parliaments of eu member states have called on their respective governments to recognise this. the palestinian people’s right to self-determination has been enshrined in international resolutions for 66 years. we call on all parties to refrain from any action which may undermine the viability and the prospects of the two-state solution. therefore, settlements must end, the apartheid wall must be dismantled and attacks on holy sites, along with the demolition of palestinian property, must stop immediately.
in writing. — my sole goal in voting for this motion was the achievement of peace in the middle east. as israel continues with settlement expansion, the two-state-solution is quickly losing credibility. eu recognition sends a clear message to both israel and palestine that the eu is committed to peace, and that we support moderate voices in the region.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this joint motion for resolution on the recognition of palestinian statehood because i believe that recognition of palestinian statehood by the european parliament is a crucial development in the progress of the peace process. there has been limited success in negotiations between the two parties, and i believe we can do more in the european union to bring a lasting peace to fruition.
in writing. — it is crucial to defend a sector that represents 350,000 workers and that is the backbone of eu industry . the steel industry plays a key role in the european economy. we cannot stand by helpless while production is reduced and jobs are lost
mr president, this feinstein report and the extracts from it have cast a dark cloud over the us’s reputation as a defender of democracy and freedom. it has cast a shadow over security services that are supposed to protect the citizens of the world and, as president obama said himself, the image of the us has been tarnished. indeed the report has thrown up many questions for european citizens, as well as european governments. when you condone the use of torture and extreme methods of interrogation, and when you ignore the very values that you are trying to defend, you give fuel to those extremists who are looking for weaknesses. the fight against terrorism is a fight about values and acting contrary to those values is therefore not just wrong but is counterproductive. the justification of isis and similar terror groups is that they are fighting a just war against a powerful tyrant. torture to the extent that it was spelled out in this report gives fuel to that notion. what message does it send to those who are intent on killing innocent civilians, beheading charity workers and killing aimlessly? the message we send is that there are no limits to depravity. not only do we fail in our standards of humanity, but we encourage others to disregard human life and suffering. we may now face a scenario whereby seemingly dangerous men and women who are currently detained can use this report to prove that they were tortured to the point of becoming psychologically unstable and their admissions and evidence can no longer be relied on. one could question how many other ongoing trials will face disruption due to the revelations in this report. there are those who argue that the end justifies the means when it comes to protecting our lives. indeed the washington post reported that a new poll shows that 51 % of americans described the cia torture methods as justified in that they gleaned information that prevented terrorist attacks. we have the geneva convention, the un convention on human rights and torture conventions. we must not allow these conventions that have been ratified by nearly every country in the world, including the united states, to be set aside and to be rewritten to serve an end. we must not allow standards of humanity at times of conflict to be neglected. we must show leadership in democratic states. we should all lead by example and not stoop to the depraved levels of some terrorist organisations. justice must be seen to be done from this report. the courts must be allowed to respond and to deal with the findings of this report.
a uachtaráin, seo an tríú bliain i ndiaidh a chéile go bhfuilimid ag caint faoi chearta daonna sa limistéar seo den domhan agus i ndáiríre is deacair a chreidiúint go bhfuilimid ag caint faoi sclábhaíocht sa lá atá inniu ann. ach sin díreach mar atá, agus go háirithe nuair a thuigimid gurb í an mháratáin an tír dheireanach ar domhan chun sclábhaíocht a chur ar ceal go hoifigiúil i mbliain 1981. anois trí bliana is tríocha ina dhiaidh sin deirtear go bhfuil suas le 4 % nó níos mó, b’fhéidir suas le 20 % den daonra faoi sclábhaíocht. ní féidir cur suas leis seo agus caithfimid brú a chur ar an máratáin cloí lena rialacha féin agus go háirithe seans a thabhairt do na sclábhaithe atá ag déanamh feirmeoireacht ar thalamh le cianta a bheith ina n-úinéirí ar an dtalamh sin agus freisin an fear iontach cróga biram dah abeid a ligean saor. níl aon chúis go bhfuil sé i bpríosún in aon chor.
madam president, contrary to the last speaker, i was very pleased to support this motion and vote for my group accordingly. i think it is a landmark day, and it is significant that we had the president and the former president here to witness our democratic decisions. the vast majority of members voted in favour of this. of course, there are those who disagree, and they are entitled to their opinions, but democracy is based on the majority. i also think that georgia wants to express its democratic right to look to the west rather than be strangled by the east for evermore. giving them consideration here, at european parliament level, is an indication of our willingness and desire to ensure that all peoples are free, that all governments can make choices of their own, and fundamentally that we are going to support that around the world. this is a good day for georgia and a good day for the european union.
in writing. — this association agreement between the eu and georgia refers to the free trade agreement between the eu and georgia as one of the most ambitious ftas that the eu has negotiated with a third country. it talks about a deep and comprehensive fta, modernising the country’s economy – which concerns privatisation and liberalisation – and commends georgia for undertaking deep and difficult economic reforms. in the irish experience these ‘reforms’ tend to make the rich richer and the vast majority of the people poorer. some of the references to russia are not helpful, given the on-going tensions in the region. integration into nato is not likely to ease tensions. for these reasons i voted against this motion.
in writing. — this association agreement between the eu and georgia refers to the free trade agreement between the eu and georgia as one of the most ambitious ftas that the eu has negotiated with a third country. it talks about a deep and comprehensive fta, modernising the country's economy – which concerns privatisation and liberalisation – and commends georgia for undertaking deep and difficult economic reforms. in the irish experience these ‘reforms’ tend to make the rich richer and the vast majority of the people poorer. some of the references to russia are not helpful, given the ongoing tensions in the region. integration into nato is not likely to ease tensions. for these reasons i voted against this motion.
in writing. — this is a vote on consent for the association agreement between the eu and georgia. if georgia wants to enter into an aa with the eu then it is their sovereign right to do so. however, the agreement is likely to impoverish the people of georgia, with escalating tensions in the region. for these reasons i abstained.
in writing. — this is a vote on consent for the association agreement between the eu and georgia. if georgia wants to enter into an association agreement with the eu then it is their sovereign right to do so. however, the agreement is likely to impoverish the people of georgia while escalating tensions in the region. for these reasons i abstained.
in writing. — by approving the association agreement we are sending a clear message to the government in tbilisi that a commitment to building democracy in the country has to be duly implemented. there will be no excuses for the politically-biased prosecution of former politicians who are being detained. prosecuting the political opposition is unacceptable. we expect the ruling coalition to strengthen the rule of law and build democracy in the country. there is no other alternative.
