on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the dossier on co2 emissions from commercial vehicles is a technical and also very complicated subject on which we have worked a lot. i am particularly grateful to the rapporteur, mr krahmer, who has conducted long and difficult negotiations with the council and the commission to reach a final compromise. the key objective for the epp was to set a target of 147 grams of co2 per kilometre by 2020. i am pleased that this objective has been welcomed and accepted. instead, i have always been against a new target for the period after 2020, because the new test cycle will only be available from this year. the new test called wltp will change the basis for setting co2 targets. the agreement reached with the council therefore does not provide for a target for 2025 but foresees that a possible range is established on the basis of the results of the impact study of the european commission and the results achieved up to 2020. the range will be adjusted and corrected according to the technological developments that we will have until 2020. finally, i believe that a good compromise has been reached on the dossier, also confirming the supercredits for a maximum of 25 000 vehicles for the period 2014-2017. so i hope that tomorrow's vote will be a broadly positive one, so as to give the motor industry a strong and clear signal. (the speaker agrees to answer a question with a blue card (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a blue-card question. but surely: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
member of the commission. − madam president, as commissioner oettinger unfortunately cannot be here tonight, i would like, on behalf of the commission, to welcome the carbon capture and storage (ccs) report from parliament. as we just heard from the rapporteur, a combination of technologies is needed to decarbonise europe, including renewable energy, greater energy efficiency and ccs. ccs combined with renewable energy has the potential to deliver larger emissions reductions than renewable energy alone. following the commission consultative communication on the future of ccs in europe, the role of ccs for power generation and energy-intensive industries will be addressed in the communication on the 2030 energy and climate policy framework that the commission intends to adopt next week. in the long term, support for ccs should be derived mainly from an adequate co2 price signal. further analysis of possible interim support measures needs to be undertaken. we share parliament’s view that it is essential, in parallel, to develop and successfully operate a range of full-chain demonstration projects that would help identify the most cost-efficient technologies. i agree very much with what mr davis just said: what we need to do first in europe is to gather positive experiences from a range of technologies in this field. we need the demonstration projects. they are a critical step towards ensuring the timely deployment of this technology and validating its cost-effectiveness as a climate-friendly technology. funding under the european energy programme for recovery has already supported efforts in this direction. one additional ccs project is also being assessed for co-financing under the ner300 scheme. it should be no secret to anybody, however – and it was implied in what mr davis just said – that we need more interest on the part of member states. we cannot do this without co-financing and co-interest from member states. the commission is very keen to work with the member states on gaining experience in this technology. furthermore, as was also recognised by parliament’s report, the importance of member states’ developing national low-carbon strategies and roadmaps – taking ccs into account where relevant – was highlighted as a possible support measure by some contributions to the ccs consultation launched last year. the commission welcomes the call in parliament’s report for the development of adequate co2 transport and storage infrastructure. the horizon 2020 work programme for 2014 and 2015, which includes co2 storage projects as a priority, and the connecting europe facility, for cross-border transport solutions, could support initiatives in these areas – for instance, in the north sea. here again, member state interest is a prerequisite. we share parliament’s call for closer cooperation with ccs projects worldwide. cooperation is already happening with the us, with canada and with australia. the commission attaches high importance to the proper and consistent implementation of the ccs regulatory framework across europe, with a view to supporting the demonstration and subsequent deployment of ccs in an environmentally-safe way and to enhancing public confidence in this technology. the commission notes parliament’s call for a revision of the ccs directive, particularly in relation to co2 storage liabilities. the review of the directive will start this year. we envisage that it will be a thorough exercise with broad engagement by all relevant stakeholders. the review will aim to assess the effectiveness of the directive’s provisions against the state of play of ccs in europe and its future deployment prospects. we note parliament’s insistence that it is no longer acceptable to invest in fossil-fuel-based power plants or industrial installations without proper regard for how this will be reduced in the future. i would like to reassure the members of parliament that, as part of the review of the ccs directive, due consideration will be given to the assessment of capture and storage readiness provisions. the commission welcomes the suggestions that parliament has put forward in its report as an important contribution to the ongoing debate on the best way to support the development of ccs in europe. let me finish by thanking the rapporteur and all the members of parliament involved for their work and their constructive dialogue on this. i would reiterate, however, that member states need to engage further if this is not to be only a theoretical debate but actually one of the technologies on which europe could take the lead.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i am here to congratulate mr davies on his work. i think it was a very important and rewarding job. as you may know, commissioner, i am often critical of certain european positions on our energy policy. but i must say that when it comes to ccs technology, i am absolutely on his side. i believe that this is an important technology, one that we have been working on to achieve the objectives that europe has set itself of decarbonising our environment and our economy, and i believe that without this technology it will be even more difficult and too expensive to achieve the objectives that we have set ourselves. so there are some points in particular - i will not repeat them, they have been made so well by mr davies - but to recognise that this technology can really enable the european union to meet its low-carbon aspirations at the lowest cost must be something we are all aware of, just as i fully agree that the diffusion of technology should not only be considered in the context of energy generation from coal and gas but also in various industrial sectors, such as those of the chemical industry, the metallurgical industry, the steel industry, cement, refining and so on. i hope that the commission will really take up the subject also in the framework of the 2030 climate and energy framework, because that is a chapter that i find more complex and where i would like to see many sensitive points dealt with with more attention to what is the real world that we are living in at the moment. we have a situation in europe which is still uncertain: the future is unknown. we see that in other countries ccs is being applied with varying degrees of success. in my country, italy, for example, a european pilot project was recently closed, with a great loss, because we had to return the money and we also lost a considerable number of potential jobs. so i hope that these experiences will give greater strength to this potential that we have and that there is a more favourable way of looking at this technology, which as we well know has created a great many problems, first of all what the commissioner mentioned, storage sites. but i think that we as european legislators absolutely need to understand how we can help develop technology in a way that will meet the carbon targets, while protecting and increasing the jobs that are the priority, and supporting our competitiveness. these are our main objectives and i thank you in advance for your efforts and i hope that we can achieve a truly shared objective.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am firmly convinced that the fight against wildlife crime must be tackled first and foremost through a more conscious management of hunting practices. in recent years, hunting has been subject to too many restrictions and complications to discourage even the most passionate hunters. we must not be carried away by distortions of prohibition. they overlook certain aspects of hunting that are of fundamental importance to biodiversity: for example, the fact that responsible and sustainable hunting can help maintain the natural balance, ensuring the health and stability of wild populations, is not often mentioned. to allow this, however, the widespread problem of a lack of homogeneous and comprehensive data, which could allow the evaluation of the most appropriate interventions, must be solved. another positive externality of hunting that tends to be overlooked is its central role in countering the neglect and neglect of many green areas. without the contribution of all those hunters who every year practice their hunting activity in full compliance with the legislation in force, thousands and thousands of hectares of countryside and forests would no longer receive all the care that every passionate hunter is accustomed to, such as mowing and pruning, irreparably causing a loss of biodiversity and an increase in forest areas. proper wildlife management, which in turn implies good hunting, therefore ensures the maintenance of a stable and sustainable ecosystem. the scale of the damage to agriculture and the environment by certain species of wildlife and the consequent impact on the economic activity of agricultural undertakings is alarming in this respect. many of these species are on the lists of protected species but the regulatory provisions for obtaining derogations are sometimes so complex as to hamper the first steps of the requesting authorities, who prefer to continue to provide compensation to farmers rather than risk an infringement procedure. according to a demographic survey carried out in 2013 by astraricerche for the italian national committee for hunting and nature, face italy and arcicaccia, the majority of italians are in favor of regulated, limited, responsible and sustainable hunting. in particular, it is confirmed that there is a very strong statistical correlation between the awareness of the rules, the acceptance of them and the good evaluation of the game. a campaign of proper information and dissemination would therefore be of paramount importance. i am sure that its usefulness would also be fundamental in the fight against wildlife crime. i would therefore ask all political actors to be well aware that to stiffen...{the president interrupts the speaker) {the speaker agrees to answer a 'blue card' question (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
it's a blue-card question. i'm not sure what it is. i listened carefully to what my colleague said. although the subject of the debate is not hunting, i would like to ask him, since we are talking about the protection of species threatened with global extinction, what help he thinks hunting could give in the fight against poaching and the international trade in these seriously endangered species, which are declining day by day, as has also been reported by other colleagues. i also wanted to know the sources of all the data you have brought, since i am from your member state, and i am italian too, but i have absolutely no idea...
answer to a blue-card question. mr president, i agree with the arguments i heard at the beginning of the line. i am not referring to those animals alone, but to what mr zanoni said, that there are people who want to eliminate this world of game. i would like to say that the moment we eliminate the game in europe, we are giving free rein to a whole system of poaching, with the same results as in africa or other countries and nations.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i would also like to thank mr gerbrandy for his speech. we have no more time to lose. every 15 minutes, unscrupulous poachers kill an elephant for its tusks, a total of 36,000 elephants a year. if we keep going at this rate, by 2025, there will be no elephants left on this planet. these death tolls force us to react urgently. the fight against poaching and the illegal trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora must be a top priority for the whole of the european union. wildlife crime is a very serious cross-border criminal activity with an annual turnover of at least 19 billion dollars. the data provided by interpol and the international fund for animal welfare speak plainly: in recent years there have been several important initiatives but they have not been enough to effectively combat this terrible phenomenon. the european union must play its part: help exporting countries protect their wildlife and promote campaigns in consumer countries such as china, thailand and vietnam to stop the demand for illegal wildlife products such as rhino horns, tiger bones and ivory tusks. we need strict, exemplary and effective sanctions against these traffickers who are endangering the existence of these increasingly rare animals and we need national moratoriums on all commercial imports and exports and above all on domestic sales and purchases within the european union. consequently, trophy hunting cannot be considered ethical because it is the cause of large-scale reduction of endangered species. therefore, member states should support the revision of the union legal provisions governing the import of hunting trophies into member states and definitively ban the import permits for trophies of all endangered species. so , what ? zero tolerance for all forms of poaching, including poaching of different wildlife species even within the same territory of the european union. the european union can and must play a crucial role in the fight against poaching: but we're running out of time, so we have to act fast.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur, ms de lange, and the shadow rapporteurs for their hard work in producing this report. the commission fully shares the view that combating food fraud is a priority if we want to maintain a high level of food safety, consumer confidence in food on the european union market and the competitiveness of the european food industry. several initiatives have already been developed by the commission following the discovery of the horsemeat fraud last year. these initiatives aim to increase awareness of food fraud and improve the capabilities of member states to better prevent, detect and deter fraudulent activities along the food chain. in particular, a food fraud network comprising the 28 member states and the commission has been established to ensure that action to fight potential food fraud is effectively coordinated across the european union. a dedicated team has been created within the commissionʼs directorate-general for health and consumers to coordinate actions within the network and to discuss with other agencies – for example, with europol – how best to coordinate strategies in the fight against food fraud. we are also working on further initiatives beyond the five-point action plan presented in march last year. the areas of work that have been identified are very much in line with the recommendations of the report before us today. i would also point out that we are working on a second round of tests to detect the unlabelled presence of horsemeat. the report on which the honourable members will vote this week is very useful to the commission and will provide substantial food for thought for further initiatives. i need hardly add that the commission will keep parliament informed of future progress. concerning labelling the origin of meat, many initiatives are planned in the context of the new legislation on food information to consumers. these include (to complete the mandatory labelling of the origin of beef) a new regulation which has just been adopted by the commission to specify the modalities for mandatory labelling of the origin of pig, sheep, goat and poultry meat. as regards labelling the origin of meat used as an ingredient, a report opening the debate was adopted on 17 december 2013. but while such initiatives might satisfy the demands for the labelling of origin, we must recognise that such measures cannot be considered a tool to prevent fraudulent practices. the horsemeat scandal could still have arisen even if origin labelling had been mandatory at that time for the foods in question. concerning cloning, on 18 december 2013 the commission adopted two legislative proposals addressing animal welfare and ethical concerns relating to the use of the cloning technique. the first proposed directive would ban the use of the cloning technique in the european union for farmed animals and would ban imports into the european union of cloned animals. the second would ban food such as meat or milk from cloned animals from being placed on the european unionʼs market.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 14 january 2014. written statements (rule 149)
in writing. food safety and the protection of consumers' health have always been a key concern of the european union, which has a comprehensive and highly advanced legislative framework in these areas. however, these aspects have been joined by the related issue of food fraud, which has received increasing attention following serious scandals and cases of fraudulent labelling and other food fraud which, in addition to posing serious threats to the health of citizens, have had a serious and far-reaching impact on the eu food chain. the need for better regulation of food fraud at european level, and in particular of its scale, the factors contributing to its occurrence and possible solutions, has thus become clear, in order to protect a sector which, with its 48 million jobs and a value of eur 715 billion per year, is one of the main sectors of the eu economy. the interest is to ensure better and more complete protection of the public health of european citizens and their freedom of choice in the field of food.
in writing. food safety has always been a priority in the european union's policies. in recent years, the phenomenon of food fraud has received increasing attention following cases of fraudulent food labelling and other food fraud affecting the food chain in the european union. these cases of food fraud have had a negative impact on consumer confidence by creating a paradox: food is safer than ever, but consumer confidence is low. the main problem is that the european union does not have a generally accepted definition of food fraud, as the current european legislative framework is largely focused on food safety; the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to provide for the possibility of a national court to impose a fine on the person concerned for the infringement of the provisions of the directive. it is therefore a matter of priority to arrive at a clear and harmonised definition of food fraud at european level. i also believe that the role of the food and veterinary office in detecting food fraud should be strengthened, as should its resources. finally, cooperation between member states in crossborder investigations should be strengthened through the involvement of europol.
the next item is the report by jutta steinruck, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on effective labour inspections as a strategy to improve working conditions in europe (2013/2112(ini)) (a7-0458/2013).
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, last month in prato there was what i have called an announced tragedy, precisely because of a blatant lack of controls at work, which i have always denounced in this house. seven chinese illegal immigrants died horribly, trapped in the fire of the factory where they worked, ate and slept, in total illegality. to combat situations like this, concrete measures are needed, such as the so-called prato rule, which i had promoted at the time, together with the then minister of the interior. this measure provided for the confiscation of the property and the liability of the owner if building abuses were found within a controlled warehouse. however, that measure was withdrawn at the last moment when it was being signed, and i have never fully understood the reasons for that choice. without effective controls and measures and without certain sanctions, we shall never be able to eliminate black and underground work, which destroys our healthy businesses, that is to say those which comply with all the rules and standards of economic, social and safety.
member of the commission. − mr president, the commission would like to thank the rapporteur, ms steinruck, for her commitment in this timely initiative to improve working conditions in europe. ensuring the credibility of the enforcement of the european union’s social legislation is also a priority for the commission. this has to be seen against the background of reinforcing the decent work agenda in europe and in the rest of the world. in this context we also work together with the international labour organisation on various topics, including enforcement of standards. these enforcement issues are, of course, at the core of the discussions regarding the proposal on posting of workers. the commission is very happy that a general approach was reached during the employment, social policy, health and consumer affairs council (epsco) and that the trialogues have now started, which hopefully will lead to a balanced agreement under the current legislature, stopping frauds and the abuse of posted workers. regarding the report under discussion, the commission welcomes the support for its forthcoming initiative to establish a european platform to fight undeclared work. the platform should bring together – along with labour inspectorates – other national enforcement authorities in charge of the fight against undeclared work, such as tax and social security bodies and migration authorities. this platform would give us a good opportunity to come up with new solutions for better implementation by the european union, as well as national frameworks, especially in areas of labour law including posting rules, health and safety and the coordination of social security. the commission is currently making final preparatory steps to adopt the proposal. we are analysing the added value of several options and exploring links between different existing european union-level mechanisms. eurofound should, of course, be involved in the activities of the platform, given its continuing research on undeclared work. at the same time, we are still examining whether integrating such a platform into eurofound would actually be the best solution. the report underlines the fact that quite a lot of work has already been done by the senior labour inspectors committee (slic). the commission confirms that slic is cooperating with the advisory committee on health and safety at work. this cooperation involves, in particular, the exchange of information regarding developments in the member states in the field of labour inspectorates and health and safety at work. we look forward to the adoption of this report. we will continue our work to develop and improve specific tools, such as mechanisms for the cross-border exchange of information, to help member states to ensure workers’ rights.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 14 january 2014. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the report by phil bennion, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on financial participation of employees in companies’ proceeds (2013/2127(ini)) (a7-0465/2013).
member of the commission. − mr president, on behalf of the commission, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr phil bennion, the committee on employment and social affairs and the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, and the european parliament as a whole, for the work done on the report and the resolution on employee financial participation. the resolution provides a comprehensive overview of concrete initiatives which should be considered by the member states and by the commission to encourage and facilitate employee financial participation across the european union. more than 30 years of research support the conclusion that companies that are partly, or entirely, owned by their employees are more profitable, create more jobs and pay more taxes than their competitors without employee share ownership. employee share ownership also strengthens corporate governance and has a positive impact on employee motivation and also on retention. also, companies with employee share ownership do not relocate as easily as some other companies do. on the contrary, companies partially owned by employees are more strongly embedded in local communities and regions. furthermore, since employees are long-term stakeholders par excellence, broadening employee shareholding is also a source of long-term financing which can help to stabilise capital markets. the resolution also rightly emphasises the particular importance of employee share ownership for small and medium-sized enterprises. smes constitute the vital texture of our economy, and employee share ownership can help sustain the success of commercial and social enterprises. for all these reasons i welcome this resolution as an important contribution to the execution of the commission’s inclusive growth strategy to ensure that we emerge faster and stronger from the economic and financial crisis. the commission takes note of all the recommendations in the resolution, which comes at a very timely moment indeed. the commission is now implementing a pilot project on the promotion of employee ownership and participation. the purpose of this project is, firstly, to identify the reasons underpinning the wide divergences in approaches across member states. we will focus on the main drivers behind the cost and administrative complexities that are hampering a large-scale introduction of financial participation schemes, in particular in cross-border scenarios. secondly, we will analyse in detail the possible regulatory and non-regulatory actions that might be proposed or undertaken by the commission. it goes without saying that we will consider parliament’s recommendations very carefully.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 14 january 2014.
the next item is the report by vilija blinkevičiūtė, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on social protection for all, including self-employed workers (2013/2111(ini)) (a7-0459/2013).
member of the commission. − mr president, honourable members, ms blinkevičiūtė’s report raises a large number of topical issues and presents many important policy recommendations. most of them are, quite rightly, addressed to the member states, given the limited competences of the european union in the area of social protection. however, there are also a number of appeals to the commission. it would not be possible for me to respond to them all in a few minutes now, so let me just stress in very general terms that the commission is committed to promoting adequate social protection for all women and men in ways that are compatible with a high level and quality of employment and social cohesion. this is also what we underline in the social investment package adopted almost a year ago. furthermore, the latest annual growth survey underlined the widespread need to strengthen the efficiency and financial sustainability of social protection systems, while also insisting on the need to enhance their effectiveness and adequacy in meeting social needs and ensuring essential social safety nets. we will continue to cooperate closely with the member states, notably through the social protection committee, to pursue this goal. let me also briefly mention some very recent developments which go in the same direction as this report. in december, the commission proposed a quality framework for traineeships, to be adopted as a council recommendation. it will not be legally binding, but it would give an important signal, also covering the social protection of trainees. another important development is the common approach agreed in council on the directive to facilitate and improve the enforcement of the 1996 posted workers directive. this opens the way for negotiations with parliament which, i hope, can still be concluded during the current parliamentary term, so that posted workers can soon benefit from better protection of their rights. furthermore, in november, trialogue negotiations were successfully concluded on a directive that will facilitate the acquisition, and improve the preservation, of occupational pension rights of mobile workers. while the directive formally applies only to cross-border mobility, we know that most countries intend to apply its standards to all workers who leave a job. so, for instance, women who interrupt their careers due to caring obligations are also likely to benefit. allow me also to mention another initiative. the commission will soon propose further measures to prevent and deter undeclared work through improved cooperation between member states’ enforcement authorities. such cooperation could help all workers benefit from appropriate social protection via sharing of best practices on prevention and deterrence measures. the commission will respond point by point to the specific requests that are addressed to it in the report soon after its adoption.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 14 january 2014.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, i would like to begin in lithuanian. man labai malonu kartu su jumis įvertinti lietuvos pirmininkavimo rezultatus. didžiuojuosi, kad mūsų maža jaunos demokratijos šalis, neseniai atkūrusi savo valstybingumą, įrodė, kad ji gali atlikti europos sąjungos pirmininkavimo užduotis taip pat gerai kaip ir bet kuri valstybė narė, nesvarbu didelė ar maža. lietuva įveikė šį išbandymą. atlikome visus darbus, kuriuos turėjome atlikti, ir net nuveikėme daugiau nei buvo tikėtasi. po šešių lietuvos pirmininkavimo mėnesių turime stipresnę, patikimesnę ir labiau savimi pasitikinčią europos sąjungą. when i addressed you in july i said that the lithuanian presidency would be about a credible, growing and open europe. i stressed the need to regain credibility with the citizens of europe by delivering on the outcomes they have been promised, by following through on what we have committed to do, and by showing we can work effectively together in the interest of our citizens. i spoke of the need to restore growth to our economy and to make it competitive, with sustainable jobs for young people in particular. and i reminded this house that europe has always been at its best when it has been an open europe: a europe which has stood up for peace, democracy and human rights, and a europe which, after 50 years of conflict and division, has striven to reunite. so what have we achieved in these six months? despite the exceptional efforts of the irish presidency, reaching the final agreement on the multiannual financial framework (mff) and the 2014 budget was not easy for us. the deal struck in november involved hard choices on all sides. no one got everything they wanted. i pay tribute to all those in this house who played a part in forging that agreement – not least to mr lamassoure and ms jensen. i think that together, we showed what can be done when we apply our collective ingenuity to the task of making europe work for our citizens. we delivered – on time – a modern, predictable, forward-looking and long-term budget, a budget that makes a difference to people’s lives, to every household across europe. it is a budget that shows that europe is part of the solution. yes, it is a rigorous budget, in keeping with those that national governments are having to implement at home, but even if modest in size, at 1 % of european gdp, it represents an injection of nearly a trillion euros into the real economy of europe. it addresses the urgent investment needs of hundreds of thousands of towns and regions across europe. it recognises the social cost of the economic crisis, bringing badly-needed extra help to those living below the poverty line or desperately seeking a job. it is a budget for smart growth, targeted on strengthening and sustaining the economic recovery which is already underway. it provides us with the means to prevent our young people being denied a future. it gives europe the capacity to fight cybercrime. it addresses the tragedy we have seen too often at lampedusa, strengthening our border and asylum management system. at home, it brings relief to the victims of catastrophic floods and drought. also, beyond our borders, it provides the largest programme of development and humanitarian assistance the world has ever seen. in putting our house in order, we delivered a budget fit for purpose and right for our time. however, delivery requires more than a budget. as you well know, the lithuanian presidency also faced the task of completing negotiations with you on separate programmes required to implement the mff. i am pleased that we managed to reach agreement on nearly all of these. only a very few remain for the greek presidency to complete. delivery on that scale is demanding on any individual. so i would like to put on record my thanks and admiration for the tireless efforts that your committee chairs, rapporteurs and members have put in, and for the skill and experience they bring to their task. europe’s voters need to hear the message that they are well served by their legislators. everyone benefits from the programmes which have been in place since the start of this year – horizon 2020, creative europe, cosme and erasmus+, to name but a few. they provide evidence for the claim that europe is building its way out of the crisis, that europe is delivering for its citizens, and that europe is working. credibility is not just about delivering sustainable growth; it is also about restoring confidence in the european union’s financial system and regaining the trust of financial markets. that is why we pulled out all the stops to make progress on creating a functional banking union. the agreement reached just before christmas on the single resolution mechanism provides a blueprint for repairing insolvent banks. this is vital for securing economic recovery and financial stability. the bank recovery and resolution directive will stop taxpayers having to bail out banks again, while the deposit guarantee scheme means that depositors will be guaranteed up to eur 100 000, not by taxpayers but by the banks themselves, and that they will get their money back within seven working days. this is the way to restore the trust of global markets and to help boost the union’s economy. the commission’s annual growth survey shows that growth is gradually returning; financial markets are stabilising; consumers and businesses are more confident about the future; and we have the good news that ireland has exited the bail-out programme. during our presidency, a total of 141 legislative and 283 non-legislative dossiers were concluded. that is more than twice what, on average, a presidency is capable of achieving. nevertheless, there will be those who remain disappointed that their particular dossier did not progress as far as they had hoped. however, let me single out some of the areas in which we did make a breakthrough, although there was little hope of this at the beginning of our presidency. firstly, the interinstitutional task force made significant progress towards agreeing on single stock plans under the reformed common fisheries policy. this has always been a contentious area, and multiannual plans for the sustainable management of european fish stocks and our fishing industry would represent a historic step forward. secondly, we all wanted to see progress on a proposal on the statute and funding for european political parties and foundations, so i am glad that our negotiators appear to have made a breakthrough on this politically sensitive and legally challenging subject. it will serve as a strong basis for our trio partner greece in seeking final agreement before the end of the term of this parliament. lastly, the lithuanian presidency has reached a landmark agreement on the posting of workers directive, which is key for the improved provision of cross-border services and protection of workers’ rights. we also moved forward with the digital agenda and further deepened the single market, creating opportunities for small and medium-sized enterprises, which are the true engines of our economies. in the field of energy, the december council endorsed two reports – on the internal energy market and on eu external energy. it set the guidelines for completion of the internal energy market, which is scheduled to take place at the end of 2014. it is important that, for the first time, we have a separate instrument in the mff for strategic energy links. trade has always been vital to growth, to creating jobs, and to sustaining families and communities. here, too, there were breakthroughs: with canada, on an ambitious comprehensive economic and trade agreement (ceta); with the united states, with whom we finally got down to serious negotiations on the transatlantic trade and investment partnership (and agreement here would be game-changing for all, benefiting every family in the eu); with the world trade organisation, in bali, where we rediscovered our hope that multilateral trade deals can become a vehicle for global growth; and with georgia and moldova, both of which, despite relentless and unacceptable pressure from moscow, signalled their determination to integrate their economies with the european union. the outcome of the vilnius summit triggered a historic change, giving fresh impulse to the eastern partnership. ukraine will never be the same again. together with commissioners füle and ashton, with your envoys, pat cox and aleksander kwaśniewski, and with a massive show of support from members from every corner of this house, we put heart and soul into demonstrating to our eastern neighbours that our offer of partnership was – and is – genuine and that europe is their centre of gravity. by not signing the association agreement, ukraine’s political leadership defied the expectations of its own people, who were unwilling to let go of their european dream. who in the world could fail to have been moved by the image of ordinary people of all ages in kiev’s freezing euromaidan peacefully confronting rows of riot police; and, among them, a solitary pianist playing on an upright piano painted in the blue and yellow stars of the eu flag? taking their future into their own hands, unwilling to be subdued by the berkut militia units, these demonstrators refused to give up their quest for a fairer life and the right of all people in sovereign states to choose a better future for themselves. the spirit of the maidanci, who have taken to the streets to defend their european choice, represents a test for all of us. it is a test we cannot afford to fail. while commentators in europe – and even in this parliament – complain that the eu has lost its way, we are seeing precisely the opposite sentiment coming from the euromaidan. the vilnius summit served as a wake-up call. the eu is still a model and a centre of attraction for many in the world, beginning with our closest neighbours. aspirations towards the european union in our eastern neighbourhood, as in the western balkans, are not just a show of democracy: they are a rallying call for the democratic values that this parliament represents. once again, the european union is a lighthouse of hope – for freedom, democracy and human rights. in conclusion, 2013 was designated the european year of citizens. we all know very well that the interests of citizens can be best served and their trust gained when we deliver results – and i think the lithuanian presidency has delivered. from the outset, the european parliament has been our partner. i would also like to thank the members of the european commission for making the partnership a success. i believe that the experience of the last six months has given lithuania new strength and new confidence. faced with intolerable external pressures in the run-up to the vilnius summit, we came to appreciate the value of european solidarity. in extending every best wish to the incoming greek presidency, i can say this: we discovered that success in a council presidency has nothing to do with the size of the country. it has everything to do with hard work, efficiency, and determination to build a consensus. we came prepared, we learned along the way, and we have given it everything. thank you all for your cooperation. (applause)
president of the commission. − mr president, madam president-in- office, honourable members, with the conclusion of the lithuanian presidency, the european union ended the year 2013 on a high note. the successful closure of ireland’s support programme proves that, when adjustment and assistance go hand in hand, we can overcome even the most serious kinds of crisis in a eurozone country. spain’s exit from its specific banking programme shows that we can effectively address grave concerns about the financial institutions, even in a larger economy. it proves that, through reform and increased responsibility, we can put the banking sector on a sound footing once again. with the accession of latvia, the eurozone is expanding – another unambiguous sign of renewed confidence in the euro. these are encouraging signs for the european union and especially for member states that still face hard times and challenging transitions. i believe that europe as a whole should take heart that the situation can be, and is being, turned around. it is hugely important to note that, at the start of this new year – a crucial year for europe – we are in a far better place than we were at any time since the start of the financial crisis. we owe this only to combined, concerted and continued efforts at national and european level. honourable members, i want to pay a sincere tribute to the lithuanian presidency. through a lot of hard work and commitment, the lithuanian team has been able to push forward a number of delicate and decisive initiatives. for the months ahead, our top priority remains the banking union. over the past five years, we have undertaken a fundamental reform of the way banks are regulated and supervised. we want a thriving and responsible european banking sector, at the service of the real economy, where banks – not taxpayers – carry the costs of their own mistakes. today, europe’s banks are better capitalised, better regulated to manage risks, and better supervised. we are now at the beginning of the end of public bank bail-outs, with the welcome agreements reached by the co-legislators in december on the bank resolution directive and deposit guarantee schemes. banking union is a crucial sign of our commitment to a genuine and deep economic and monetary union and to restoring decent lending conditions throughout the euro area, and it is an essential part of decoupling bank risks from sovereign debt. so it is now imperative to work for agreement on the single resolution mechanism, which is the last building block needed for a genuine european banking union. the council set out its position in december, opening the door for negotiations with parliament. as you know, the commission would have preferred a system based fully on the community approach. the commission has rigorously defended an article 114 legal base for its proposal. like parliament, we are concerned that the introduction of an intergovernmental dimension to addressing the transfer and mutualisation of funds will undoubtedly add further unnecessary complexity. but at the same time – and we have to face reality – there appears to be no other approach which will obtain the necessary support in council. so the question is not whether we are happy with the council position. the question is rather whether we can afford to waste the opportunity to reach a final agreement before the end of this parliamentary term. can we afford to put at risk the emerging signs of returning confidence? this is what is at stake. so i believe we should now work hand in hand as parliament and commission to achieve our goal of a single resolution mechanism, which is the indispensable final piece of a european banking union. for that, we need to fight to the limit to ensure that the intergovernmental dimension is kept to the absolute minimum of what is politically necessary. we should also be very vigilant in making sure the outcome remains fully compatible with, and upholds the primacy of, eu law. 2013 was also very much the year in which we proved the maturity and the effectiveness of the economic governance framework as we have developed it since the start of the crisis, including the tools of the ʻtwo pack’ implemented for the first time. this european semester cycle offered less drama than previous editions but more genuine debate and, in the end, more gratifying decisions. we can build on these experiences and the policy results when we further focus on growth and jobs in the months to come. we have at the same time continued to deepen the debate about the future of our governance framework, notably at the december summit, with a real in-depth discussion about contractual arrangements that could expand the partnership between member states and the european union, deepen the effective solidarity between countries and reinforce the sense of ownership of reforms within member states. this must certainly include paying more attention to the social dimension of economic and monetary union, which is the topic of a communication from the european commission and of two ministerial debates under the lithuanian presidency. as part of the european semester, we have proposed a new scoreboard to allow for better and earlier identification of major social and employment problems. from the beginning, this has been an integral part of what our reform efforts are all about. there is now broad support across europe to fine-tune our approach further, to focus our attention even more and to work more closely with the social partners in order to improve results. earlier in the lithuanian presidency we reached an agreement that forms the very basis of the european union’s role and ability to make sure reforms lead to more jobs and better opportunities: the multiannual financial framework. i remember well the extensive discussions we had, between the council and parliament, and also how we were together able to make the final deal. i want once again to thank all the leaders in the european parliament who worked with us to conclude that historic agreement. as i have always stated, our response to the crisis has to go beyond fiscal consolidation and structural reform. they are indispensable, to be sure, but we also need investment, and for many of our regions the european budget is the first – and even in some cases almost the only – source of public investment. so it is vital that we make progress and do not delay its implementation. one aspect remains especially urgent, and it is one in which european institutions and actors have strongly taken the lead but where cooperation with member state governments is essential: youth unemployment. the commission has been giving top priority to all initiatives aimed at tackling youth unemployment, but implementation by the member states remains crucial. by 31 december 2013, 17 out of 20 member states in which the youth unemployment rate is above 25 %, and which are therefore eligible to benefit from the youth employment initiative, had submitted their youth guarantee implementation plans, so three member states are still missing. an important contribution to fostering action on the ground was the agreement reached on the european social fund regulation, and in particular on the youth employment initiative. now that the framework for the youth employment initiative is set, it is crucial that national authorities proceed with speedy programming of activities in order to ensure quick and effective implementation. also, to further link up europeans with job opportunities across the european union, the commission will later this week present the way we aim to strengthen the eures network. i call on all member states and social partners not to slow down this issue, which is so decisive for our credibility and for the future of our young people. also regarding the social agenda, let us not forget that we successfully concluded on the posting of workers issue under the lithuanian presidency as well. this was a very important agreement and an important step towards encouraging people to use their right of free movement, and to do so in a way which is – and is seen to be – socially fair. honourable members, the lithuanian presidency gave priority to the vilnius summit so that we could move forward with the eastern partnership. indeed, it was a very important and, i would say, historic summit, and we were able to make progress in our relationship with our eastern partners, especially by moving towards economic integration and political association with those who are ready and willing for it. it also confirmed how challenging the situation in ukraine is, and why we should not give up on our commitment to those countries in our neighbourhood that want to link up with the freedoms and the way of life they see in the european union. indeed, one of the most important moments of the vilnius summit was on the streets of kiev. the summit was not only in vilnius; it was also on the streets of kiev. we saw europe at its most popular: a beacon of hope and values and a guarantee of human rights and liberties. around diplomatic tables, we saw europe at its best: united in defending ukrainian citizens’ dignity and opinions and ready to support their sovereign right to decide on their own destiny and to improve their chances of a better, more prosperous and more democratic future. at a time when we have so many people disappointed in the european union, i think that to see young people – and sometimes not so young people – in the freezing kiev nights, holding so high the flags of the european union, confirms how important the european union and its values are, not only for us here in our member states, but also for the rest of the world. other elements of the eastern partnership were also pursued. the european union-georgia association agreement was initialled, and so was the association agreement with moldova. visa facilitation was on the table, and the joint declaration of the vilnius summit made clear that we will enhance cooperation in strategic areas in the future as well. the tragic events of lampedusa – i had the occasion to witness the dramatic consequences personally on that island – and the unforgettable deaths of 350 people signalled and symbolised the difficulties of individual member states in dealing with complex migration issues in a globalised world and pushed us all towards a renewed effort in this area. in the task force we have worked out a holistic strategy to respond to such problems, recommending more than 30 concrete actions in the areas of cooperation with third countries; regional protection, resettlement and reinforced legal migration; the fight against human smuggling and organised crime; proper management and better surveillance of sea borders; and solidarity with member states experiencing especially high migration pressures. at the same time, we have prepared the ground for debates that may often be less visible but are equally important for the future economic welfare and political relevance of the european union. at the december summit the european council, for the first time ever, discussed concrete defence issues which are so important for our leverage as a political actor and international player. this is a theme i have raised in all my state of the union speeches before you in this parliament. everyone underlined the need for a credible, reinforced and refocused common security and defence policy as a strategic, geopolitical and economic imperative, and there was a consensus on the wish for more cooperation among member states and with our allies, especially nato, and on the obligation to maintain a technological lead in our defence capabilities and our industrial base. from 2001 to 2010, in a rapidly changing and often threatening global context, eu defence spending declined from eur 251 billion to eur 194 billion, meaning that we must do more with less money. we can only do that together. security issues in the broader sense – from energy policy in both its internal and external dimensions, which also remains high on the agenda for the months to come, to cyber security and data protection – are at the heart of the european union’s raison d’être. we share the problems and suffer the threats together, so we are increasingly destined to work out the solutions together. i hope this common european destiny in these and many other areas will be realistically highlighted and strongly defended in the months to come, when the future of the european project will be debated and decided on, and especially during the european elections. we are not yet there, as we will discuss tomorrow a number of important files, and the preparatory work of the commission and the presidency will need to be followed up and brought to a conclusion before the end of this parliamentary term. we still have a lot of work to do, even if – when you think of where we were some time ago and where we are now – we have reason to be confident. let us not forget that, not so long ago, some people were predicting the implosion of the euro and even the disintegration of the european union. and yet now, with consumer and investor confidence resuming, growth – even if it is timid growth – is expected. the recession is behind us, but we should avoid any kind of complacency. with such high levels of unemployment in some of our member states and with many of our companies, especially smes, still lacking the financial means to invest and create jobs, we cannot yet say that we are out of the crisis. but with determination and resolve we can overcome the current challenges. in recent months we have again done a lot of the groundwork in order to do so. 2014, i am sure, will be a year of positive change for the european economy. let us work together for that to happen sooner rather than later.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is enough to recall that in just six months 241 legislative acts were adopted, which is two and a half times the average of the previous six months, to highlight the excellent result achieved by this presidency. but the lithuanian presidency has not only stood out in terms of the quantity of concrete results and achievements, but above all in terms of the quality of the work that has been done. lithuania has fully earned the confidence and appreciation of this parliament thanks to the skill and passion of its government and its experts. this was mainly due to the strong europeanism with which the presidency has carried out complex legislative processes, often made even more difficult by eurosceptic and sometimes anti-european political tendencies. the commission has already adopted a proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use. if the funds allocated by the european union for the next seven years can be used from the first days of january, it is also and above all due to the perseverance and commitment of a presidency which has succeeded in making the value of european integration prevail over the selfishness and myopia of some member states. the lithuanian presidency's key role, however, has been in a number of other areas, from the single resolution mechanism for banking crises to the directive on the deposit guarantee scheme. as regards my role as rapporteur, i thank the lithuanian presidency for having broken the political deadlock on the directive on non-financial reporting by companies. i therefore conclude by renewing my congratulations to the lithuanian presidency for reaching very important political agreements which will serve to strengthen the financial, economic and social security of the union, contributing to the development of a strong and inclusive europe.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, if you will allow me, i will focus my closing remarks on the most frequently debated topics in this debate. i will speak firstly on the economic situation and the banking union, because i believe that we have to look at this issue in the perspective of recent history and of the near future. i remember very well our debates a year ago, both in this house and outside in the capitals of europe, where there were actually many who predicted the implosion of the euro, the falling apart of the european union and a never-ending economic doom for europe and its citizens. we know that today the situation is different. the recession is over, growth is gradually returning to our countries and the most affected member states are one by one exiting the programmes and returning to the financial market. on top of this we have latvia as the 18th euro area member state, and we in the commission, of course, extend our good wishes for lithuania to become, very soon, the 19th member of the euro area. this change was achieved by the hard work of our citizens in the member states, who also bore the heavy load of the financial consequences of the crisis. but the gradual restoration of confidence was also achieved by changes in our economic governance, by the improved regulation of our banks and by the structural reforms implemented under the european semester. now we need to put the last piece of the new economic construction in place: the completion of the banking union and the conclusion of the negotiations on the single resolution mechanism. as you well know, the commission would have preferred a system based fully on the community approach. we have been rigorously defending the article 114 legal base for this proposal and, like you, are also concerned that the introduction of the intergovernmental dimension to address the transfer and mutualisation of the fund undoubtedly adds further complexity to the system. but at the same time, we also have to be aware of the fact that this approach was supported unanimously by all the member states in the council. it was supported unanimously in the european council and it had the support of the european central bank as well. therefore we should now work very hard together on how we can make sure that the intergovernmental dimension is kept to the absolute minimum of what is politically necessary. we must be very vigilant to make sure that the outcome of these negotiations remains fully compatible with and will uphold the primacy of european law. we all know that we need to complete these very difficult negotiations before the parliamentary recess. the commission is ready for close cooperation with the co-legislator to complete this very important work and add this last piece of the puzzle for the new european economic construction. if you will allow me, mr president, i also would like to thank the lithuanian presidency for finalising the mmf negotiations. thanks to this, europe has its investment budget. it has the possibility to help finance very important measures such as the youth guarantee, especially in those countries which are most affected by youth unemployment. here i also have to agree fully with what mr swoboda said and with his appeal to the member states to spend better and to spend more of what is actually allocated for them in the european union budget. absorption is still very low, and we – and here i mean all of us: the member states, parliament and the commission – must make sure that this improves significantly under the new mmf. the commission is working very hard with the member states on partnership agreements to make sure the eu budget is focused on the right priorities; that timing for the spending of eu funds is much better; and that we will have the ability to intervene jointly in time before absorption becomes a real problem in our member states. so let us use the eu financial instrument better for consolidating the recovery and for boosting growth, especially in those countries which suffered the most in the crisis. i know that the lithuanian presidency did its utmost to achieve a successful eastern partnership summit, and i think that – as we heard from many of the honourable members – we made really good progress on many fronts and many issues. i believe that people in georgia and moldova clearly appreciate that. i would also like to stress that we are offering ukraine a true partnership, a true european perspective. what was on offer from the other side? i believe that the ukrainian citizens know the answer to this question very well and demonstrated it very clearly on maidan square in kiev and in other ukrainian cities. i agree with president grybauskaitė that, thanks to this offer and to this clear demonstration of the will of the ukrainian citizens, ukraine will never be the same again. to conclude, i would like to re-emphasise the statements and the comments of mr lamberts on, as he put it, pleasant surprises. i have to say that i was not that surprised, because i know how much lithuania invested in the high-quality preparation of its presidency – in the preparation of its team – and i would like to congratulate you on how well all this was put together and how the lithuanian presidency prepared a strong gender-balanced team for the execution of its priorities under the lithuanian semester. i also share the feeling of mr lamberts when it comes to my colleague, commissioner šemeta, who is doing a great job with his calm, hardworking determination on what are very difficult files. so if you will allow me, mr president, i would once again like to thank madam president and her team for the great job they did, the enormous effort they made and the very impressive result they achieved.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, i would like to thank the members for all the remarks we have heard on our cooperation through the whole six months, on our preparations and on doing our best together. without their support and that of the commission, we would not have been able to deliver. delivery was important for europe in order to stabilise growth and guarantee stability for the next seven years – and we delivered. now we need to base our election campaign on talking with our citizens and convincing them that the european parliament and the european institutions and governments can be helpful – and are helpful – for their future. i would like to reply to the two main criticisms of us which were made during the discussion. firstly by mr watson, who repeated remarks made at the beginning of our presidency. i was not able to reply last time, but now i am and i would just like to remind him that this house revoked mr uspaskich’s immunity three times – this house, three times. there is nothing discriminatory about it. one might also criticise this house’s decision, but a lithuanian court found mr uspaskich and some partners guilty of financial fraud and tax avoidance, so my reply is that i hope it will not be your watchword to protect financial and tax avoidance at the european elections. with regard to the remarks on the polish minority, i want to remind the house that lithuania fully complies with all international norms. not one international organisation responsible for the protection of minority rights has ruled that lithuania violates any of the international norms on ethnic minority protection, including the framework convention for the protection of national minorities of the council of europe. i would therefore say to mr tomaševski that his personal target and the goal of his political career is to discredit lithuania – inside lithuania, in this house and internationally.
the debate is closed. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the report by robert rochefort, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on a consumer programme 2014-2020 (com(2011)0707 – c7-0397/2011 – 2011/0340(cod)) (a7-0214/2012).
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, consumer protection should be a key principle of european action, as laid down in the treaties, whereby the union contributes to the defence of consumers' rights and interests, starting with health, safety and information. the reality of the facts is unfortunately quite different. there is a bloc of countries that does not want these guarantees. the history of the so-called 'made in' mark of origin is plain to see, as are the enormous difficulties in achieving full traceability of the agricultural and food chain. there are those who want to go against the interests of consumers, with obvious harm to both the citizens themselves and to the companies that operate in a regular way, in the light of the sun, that is to say, ensuring compliance with certain criteria of quality, safety and health. without a strong and determined will, this programme, which will take us to 2020, is likely to remain mere propaganda. the financial allocation for its implementation is very low and a large part of it is spent on technical and administrative assistance, not on concrete measures and actions. finally, i would like to see a clearer definition of the role of certain so-called european consumer organizations, which often seem to be more concerned with the interests of large groups and countries than with the interests of the category they are supposed to represent and protect.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i very much agree with one of your opening remarks. the regulation we are talking about seems to be a small thing, but it is in fact a very important solution for the future of the union. we must look at the consumer for what he is: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and so we can't take them by the hand, lead them as if they were babies, into virtuous behavior. we must give consumers certain rules, and therefore create the conditions in the environment so that they can learn in time what the characteristics of what they decide to consume are. their awareness is the trait we must favour in building the consumer of the future. what has been done in this regulation to this end is very important, including the resources that have been allocated, which will have to grow in the future, to arrive at the new tools, starting with the net, that must be made available to them, to help us in our work and them in their behaviour.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, if more than half of europe's citizens admit that when they buy or consume, they feel neither safe nor protected nor informed, then there is a lot to be done. but unfortunately this programme, while positive, has too little resources. i think that more needs to be done, especially by updating and making a big change in relation to the fact that we need to accompany the level of consumer protection with the growing development of the digital market and e-commerce, which today certainly offers more opportunities - more choice of products and services and possibilities to achieve more savings - but also poses many other problems, legal and technical, and also involves risks and dangers for the uninformed consumer. the consumer's strategic agenda must therefore be more closely linked to the digital agenda and the 'e-buyer' must be trained and equipped. one last note: the commission has also taken the view that the programme should be extended to cover the whole of the community, and that the programme should be extended to cover the whole of the community. vulnerable consumers, children and the most vulnerable citizens need europe to protect them more, to protect their rights even in advance.
mr president, i have come to you because for 23 months, since 16 february 2012, two italian navy gunners, massimiliano latorre and salvatore girone, have been in custody in india on charges of killing two fishermen during a pirate attack on the italian vessel enrica lexie. the incident took place in international waters and italy immediately claimed jurisdiction over the case. but the kerala authorities have resisted after arresting the two italian soldiers in a ruse and started a process that has been marked by delays, twists and uncertainties. after giving assurances that the two soldiers would not be sentenced to death, last week, mr president, some members of the indian government indicated that the death penalty would not be ruled out. president. - mr massimiliano latorre and mr salvatore girone are two of my colleagues, but they are also two european citizens who were wrongly arrested, who have been unjustly detained in india for almost two years, and who are facing the death penalty for a crime they did not commit. what is europe doing? president, get on the phone, get on the phone, get on the phone, and get high commissioner ashton to solve this case. this parliament asks it, italy asks it, the families of the two moroi ask it.
the rapporteur. - mr president, after almost two years of work, we have finally voted on the agreement at first reading, signed with the council, on the proposal for a regulation on the definition, designation, presentation, labelling and protection of geographical indications of aromatised wine products, a proposal to update a regulatory framework for these products dating back to 1991 and now outdated in the light of technological and commercial developments. as rapporteur, i would like to thank once again all those who have worked on the report - the shadow rapporteurs, the commission, the council - and to express my satisfaction with the result achieved. the text resulting from the negotiations and the vote improves the applicability, legibility and clarity of the eu legislation on aromatised wine products, introduces a quality policy and lays down very precise rules on protection against any form of false and misleading indication.
mr president, i would like to thank my colleagues and the president for this agreement. it is a document which, in my view, clearly paves the way for a circular economy and that is the importance of this morning's vote. we still have a lot of work to do, but we'll get there.
in writing. - i voted in favour of parliamentary immunity for my party colleague and delegation member lara comi, together with the vast majority of meps. the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights has recommended that the european parliament should defend the immunity of our colleague from forza italia, regardless of the merits of the case against her (whose reasons i consider to be inconsistent).
in writing. − members of the european parliament may not be sought, detained or prosecuted for opinions or votes expressed in the performance of their duties. that is why i am supporting the immunity request.
mr president, with the crisis, the budget cuts and the constant intensification of world competition, it is appropriate that community funds be used in a targeted, well-targeted and effective way, certainly to the benefit of the local economy but with added value for the whole european economy. it is time to choose the sectors and objectives to be financed in a targeted way, to optimise synergies, instruments and investments, especially in the field of research and innovation - we are talking about horizon 2020 and the structural funds - and then to encourage regions to forge alliances between themselves, especially with research institutes and universities, involving businesses, especially smes, and of course local administrations.
mr president, i supported the winkler report because it provides a sound guide for the commission and the member states to use the structural funds effectively. smart specialisation strategies are the precondition for member states and regions to receive funding from the european regional development fund under the research and innovation goal. it is therefore right to avoid the usual mistakes, to draw on past experience and to make investments pay off: in short, to use these funds in a really structural way. smart specialisation strategies must be based on a broad concept of innovation, not just technological, but also include other measures to stimulate private capital, namely the possibility of finding private international investors. unfortunately, we must acknowledge the serious responsibility of many regions in planning for the next period, because the regions were not consulted before deciding on the areas where innovation was needed, without wasting resources on short-term activities. it is essential that the regions cooperate with each other in accordance with this strategy, thus benefiting from the knowledge of other regions, thus strengthening the european union's competitive position at world level.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that in a period of economic recession and therefore of budgetary constraints such as the present one, it is absolutely vital that the european union improves its capacity for innovation. the past shows that in the absence of an integrated global strategy, efforts in this area have not achieved the desired results. it is no longer the time for a rainy day in several sectors which are often not connected: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. to ensure that the structural funds are used more efficiently, 11 thematic objectives and several ex ante conditions have been introduced. to receive erdf funding under thematic objective 1, regions will henceforth have to invest in research, development and innovation on the basis of so-called smart specialisation strategies.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report analysing 'smart specialisation: networking excellence for effective cohesion policy'. i believe it is essential to promote innovation strategies at regional and national level which set clear priorities for creating a real competitive advantage. i also share the views expressed in the text, which finally focuses on the potential of small and mediumsized enterprises, which europe too often still underestimates.
in writing. - i express my full support for the report, which deals with a subject with which i am often confronted in my region. it is an indisputable fact that under the pressure of the productive and social crisis, the budgetary difficulties and the sustainability of welfare systems, local governments have often given up on meeting the most difficult challenges of structural reform, to resort to techniques of diverting funds in response to occasional emergencies. the report takes the opportunity of the new framework for the ops to introduce stricter criteria, which give the union greater guarantees on the strategic finalization of the funds allocated; the first is the sharing of good practices (swot matrix, management control) from the private sector, an approach that enhances the vocations of the private production system. finally, i would like to stress the urge to the regions to develop synergy strategies which take advantage of the values of comparative advantage, in particular reindustrialisation policies. i consider particularly serious, at a political level, the inability of local authorities to use the resources available, which leads to the regions spending less than half of the funds allocated. the introduction of stricter specifications will undoubtedly stimulate the development of appropriate strategies and policies.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution on my own initiative, tabled by my group. european funding has not always been used to its fullest potential, due to the absence of an integrated overall strategy to concentrate funds on specific objectives and, above all, to optimise their use. the so-called 'smart specialisation strategies' are therefore necessary, and an ex ante conditionality is a necessary condition for access to erdf funding for r & d. it is essential to identify priorities according to the needs of the various territories, to develop research and innovation strengths and to link them to business needs, avoiding fragmentation of efforts and funding. it is equally important to encourage cooperation with businesses, universities and research centres and higher education institutions.
in writing. - in a time of deep crisis and difficulties it is unthinkable to allow waste or wrong investments. the difficult economic and budgetary situation means that it is no longer possible to distribute 'rainy' funding to many sectors, which are often not linked to each other. in future, greater care will be needed in the choice of objectives to be financed. what do you mean, "what"? by identifying priorities and linking up the relevant actors, paying particular attention to possible synergies between the various promotion instruments at all political levels and developing cooperation with other regions.
in writing. − in the current period of economic crisis and recession, it is crucial for the european union to improve its innovation capacity in a sustainable way, through the adoption of an increasingly integrated global strategy. we support this report, which has identified, with a view to ensuring a more efficient use of the structural funds in future, 11 thematic objectives ('thematic concentration') and several ex ante conditionalities for the allocation of funding. as europe's regions are all different, the smart specialisation strategy will have to be designed to provide opportunities for each of them. efforts will need to focus on cross-sectoral and technology-comprising activities that develop the cross-cutting impact on the entire regional economy. this strategy will have to ensure that synergies and more incentives for investment by the private economy, at local and regional level, or by international investors, arise from the different regional, national and eu concepts and instruments. the strategy should therefore also include measures to stimulate private capital, i.e. the possibility of attracting private international investors, and regional strategies should be documented and include well-thought-out monitoring and evaluation systems.
in writing. - research, development and innovation. these are the key words for the period 2014-2020, when europe absolutely must return to economic growth. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council at the next meeting of the european council in brussels. the newly adopted text stresses that, in order to receive erdf funds, regions will have to adopt operational programmes focused on smart specialisation strategies. this will be considered a prerequisite for access to european funding and in the absence of a regional and/or national strategy for research and innovation, projects may not be funded, depending on the area of specialisation that may be adopted by region.
in writing. − in a period of economic recession and thus budgetary constraints and steadily increasing global competition, it is vital that the european union sustainably improves its capacity for innovation. in order to ensure that the structural funds are used more efficiently in future, i have therefore decided to vote in favour.
in writing. − innovation and sustainability are the keywords for the european union of the future. however, these two elements only take on practical meaning if they are integrated into an organic, comprehensive and far-sighted strategy, which aims to solve concrete problems rather than defining far-reaching, incremental actions that are far removed from the real problems of european citizens and businesses. for these reasons, i support the elements proposed for the new ris 3 strategy, namely the carrying out of swot analyses identifying specific priorities for research and innovation, the inclusion of measures to stimulate investment, accompanied by reference frameworks and national multiannual plans for priority european projects. all this is accompanied by a system of rational control and surveillance. i agree with the points made by the rapporteur that the strategy should bring about concrete improvements: identify the strengths of each region to invest in, and to connect all relevant actors, from private individuals to local authorities, smes and research centres, in order to manage the promotion programmes and instruments available more efficiently; the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union.
in writing. − past experience has shown that the union's investments, both in general and in research, development and innovation, in the absence of an integrated overall strategy, have often not delivered the expected results. the period of severe economic crisis has also contributed to the obsolescence of the 'rainy day' method of distribution of finance. it is therefore of paramount importance that the union improves its innovation capacity in a sustainable way and exercises greater caution in the choice of objectives to be financed. for these reasons i voted in favour of mr winkler's report, convinced that 'smart specialisation strategies' can make european cohesion policy more effective.
in writing. - i consider the text to be well developed in all its parts and therefore intend to support the trzaskowski report with my vote.
in writing. - i voted in favour of these amendments to the approval procedure which make it more appropriate, in terms of efficiency and transparency, to the subjects to which it applies. the improvements proposed in the recitals, the non-legislative resolution and the amendments make the procedure more consistent with the objectives it seeks to achieve.
in writing. this report concerns the way in which parliament gives its consent in procedures where this is required under the treaties (consent procedure). i think that the amendments made by this text are positive and therefore i think it is right to give my favourable opinion to the rapporteur's work.
mr president, i voted in favour of the report because i believe that the commission's confirmed target of reducing co2 emissions from vehicles to 147 grams per kilometre is a valid and environmentally competitive target. i believe that the requirements of environmental criteria must be combined with the regulatory certainty of the profitability of the investments undertaken so far. i think it would have been better to strengthen the principle of supercredits, as it is a system which does not require additional resources and therefore does not burden the taxpayers. the automobile industry is in a state of crisis, a very serious crisis affecting employment and the competitiveness of this sector in europe and the world. i am convinced that ambitious environmental objectives must be measured against the feasibility of the market, especially in the light of objectives such as those on commercial vehicles which are, after all, recent and still competitive.
in writing. − i supported mr krahmer's report because i agree with the reduction of the co2 emission limit for new light commercial vehicles from the current 203 g/km to 147 g/km by 2020. this reduction is all the more necessary since light commercial vehicles have a longer life than passenger cars. so producing cleaner vehicles and more reliable methods for co2 emission controls. the regulation is an important tool for combining the implementation of medium-term reduction targets with sufficient predictability for the relevant industry sector.
in writing. − we have approved mr krahmer's proposal to set a co2 emissions target for light commercial vehicles from 2020 onwards. this is the ambitious target of 147 g co2/km, which was already set by the commission in 2011. there is no reason why this strategy should be changed, either from the environmental or the economic point of view. in addition, producers must be given planning assurance so that they can intervene in good time at the design stage to adapt their production to the new standards required. i also think it is important that the 'super credits' have also been retained in the proposal adopted, i.e. those additional credits which any manufacturer can obtain for each vehicle produced which emits less than 50 grams of co2 per kilometre.
in writing. - i did not intend to support the krahmer report on the reduction of co2 emissions from new commercial vehicles with my vote, as i believe that it would lead to a further increase in costs for the automotive sector, which is already suffering severely from the current economic crisis.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the krahmer report on the revision of the co2 regulation for light commercial vehicles. this is a very important regulation, but i hope that it will soon be accompanied by the final adoption of the twin regulation on co2 emissions from passenger cars, which has been the subject of much controversy and a difficult process in the eu council of ministers. the adoption of this regulation strengthens the objective of a significant reduction in co2 emissions from light commercial vehicles by setting an initial target to be reached by 2020 (147g co2 per km) and by prefiguring subsequent targets, the feasibility of which will be decided by the european commission. the regulation also provides for a penalty mechanism for over-running by manufacturers. the regulation adopted today is of course a delicate compromise, and therefore one that can be improved (with more ambitious targets), but one that has the merit of confirming the european union's global leadership in the fight against climate change and contributing to the achievement of significant european-wide targets for the global reduction of co2 emissions.
in writing. - in its measured and realistic approach, the report covers a wide range of issues, including those beyond the regulation under discussion. it is essential to apply a global and result-oriented approach, from wldt alignment to overall environmental budget assessments. to date, fragmentation and contradictions have characterized the approach to these problems, both between member states and at local level; the following measures have been introduced by the regions and metropolitan areas, outside any framework of reference, with paradoxical results: roadworthiness plans that exclude promising vehicles but allow for other higher emission vehicles; urban transport systems converted to electricity, environmentally sustainable, but powered by energy produced in outdated, high-impact power plants. it also seems reasonable to offer general guidelines for development beyond 2020, also with regard to economic and production aspects, thinking not only of vehicle manufacturers (who in any case benefit from exemptions or supercredits), but above all of small commercial and craft enterprises that see this necessary instrumental good increasingly onerous due to fuel costs, or r & d costs or regulations transferred from the producer to the consumer. the report contains indications and measures which are acceptable and i therefore vote in favour of it.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this proposal for a regulation because i believe that the european union must take its responsibilities in terms of carbon dioxide emissions and must do its best to lead the world in reducing them. the negotiations between parliament and the council have led to a good text and my vote is intended to confirm the work done. finally, i believe that gradual implementation is the best way to make an impact while giving all the time to the players concerned to adapt.
in writing. - i welcome this draft law on co2 emission limits for new light commercial vehicles. by 2020, emissions will have to be reduced from the current 203 g/k to 147 g/km. the commitment to the environment is essential: however, it should be remembered that a regulation text that is very much oriented towards environmental sustainability can be very challenging for manufacturing companies. that is why i and other colleagues have fought for more realistic targets and reached a modest compromise which has resulted in a regulation which is at least close to the one the commission has put forward.
in writing. − the report concerns the amendment of regulation (eu) no 510/2011 to meet the 2020 target of reducing co2 emissions from new light commercial vehicles. i am voting against the text because this policy is a kind of 'harm reduction' to prevent the adoption of more harmful proposals, and it is not binding on the recovery of the european motor vehicle industry, for which it is, on the contrary, restrictive.
in writing. − as early as 2011, the european parliament and the council adopted a regulation aimed at reducing co2 emissions from new light commercial vehicles. we agree with the rapporteur that this long-term target of 147 g co2/km, to be applied from 2020, should not be changed. this is an ambitious goal that was only agreed in 2011: we therefore intend to confirm the technical feasibility of this, as there has been no change in environmental or economic conditions to justify a change in the level of ambition at this stage. we believe that manufacturers also need planning certainty: further changes at this stage would only undermine this legitimate need for certainty. a change in the target would also undermine the overall credibility of the long-term objectives. although some studies suggest that the 2020 target could be more ambitious, we consider that another factor to be considered is the current economic situation, the financial crisis. we therefore do not think it appropriate to impose on european manufacturers additional economic burdens by setting more ambitious targets.
in writing. − i have expressed my favourable opinion on the report on co2 emissions from new light commercial vehicles because it is in line with the europe 2020 objectives. the proposal for a revision of this regulation aims to reduce co2 emissions by an average of 147 g/km by 2020. the text proposes to move towards this target by following several stages in which maximum carbon emission values are already set in the production of new light commercial vehicles registered each year in the european union.
in writing. − the fight against co2 emissions, in this case from light vehicles, required some updates compared to the text introduced in 2011. i appreciate the work done in the commission by the rapporteur and therefore support the text which has come to the house today.
in writing. - the european parliament, in plenary session today, gave its favourable opinion on the report by mr krahmer on co2 emissions from new light commercial vehicles. the draft law approved will reduce the carbon dioxide emission limit for new light commercial vehicles sold in the union from the current 203 g/km to 147 g/km by 2020. this objective, applicable to companies producing more than 1000 vehicles per year, is an incentive to produce more environmentally friendly models, with a view to a general reduction in co2 emissions in the european transport industries. the technical and structural feasibility of the objective does not impose a significant economic and financial burden on the undertakings to which the regulation is addressed. for this reason, and because of the obvious positive environmental externalities, in a context where 'green' issues are on the agenda, i thought it appropriate to express my favourable opinion of the honourable member's resolution.
in writing. − it is necessary to continue to make light commercial vehicles on the market increasingly environmentally friendly by progressively reducing their polluting emissions. the text adopted today goes in that direction, introducing more reliable methods for monitoring co2 emissions.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because i believe that the commission's confirmed target of reducing co2 emissions from new light commercial vehicles to 147 grams per kilometre is a feasible and environmentally competitive target. i believe that this report is consistent with regulation (eu) no 510/2011 adopted by the parliament and the council in 2011 and in line with the european objectives for the future. in fact, despite the fact that the automotive sector is experiencing a crisis affecting employment and its competitiveness worldwide, these targets are still competitive in that they allow manufacturers using 'innovative technologies' to use flexible mechanisms (i.e. a credit of up to 7 grams of co2 on the average of the entire fleet).
in writing. - i believe that the long-term target of 147 g co2/km from 2020 is already quite ambitious and has only recently been approved, and i therefore support the rapporteur's and the commission's proposal, also because a change would risk creating further uncertainty for operators in the sector, and manufacturers in particular, who have already made heavy investments on the basis of the existing target, while a change in the latter would place a further burden on businesses, which are just beginning to emerge from the severe economic crisis that has afflicted europe for years. as regards supercredits, i believe that they are an important tool to stimulate the spread of low-co2 vehicles and therefore i believe that they should be maintained, also in the light of the fact that other forms of low-pollution power supply have a very residual spread compared to the total market volume. finally, as regards eco-innovation, i fully support the commission's endorsement, since innovation must be the driving force of the european economy and this proposal is a good incentive to do so.
in writing. − mr president, in 2011 the european parliament and the council adopted regulation (eu) no 510/2011 which aims to reduce co2 emissions from new light commercial vehicles. pursuant to article 13 (1) of the regulation, the commission is required to confirm the feasibility of the long-term target of 147 g co2/km for the average emissions of new light commercial vehicles from 2020 and to define the modalities for achieving that target. in this connection, i voted in favour of mr krahmer's report, which, in support of the commission's proposal, confirms the technical feasibility of the 2020 objective.
mr president, an effective consumer policy can help to improve the lives of our citizens but also to make the european economy more competitive, precisely because consumers are at the heart of economic change, because their choices encourage innovation and efficiency. with eur 97 million available for this programme, it will be necessary to continue to ensure a high level of consumer protection and to support the europe 2020 strategy objectives for growth, competitiveness but also for the digitalisation of the internal market, especially as regards retail. better, safer, more transparent regulation will only increase consumer confidence in products, operators, services, technologies and sales methods, all to the benefit of the european economy.
mr president, the 2014-2020 consumer programme also responds very well to the challenge of cuts in resources, which has affected all european policies. the aim of this programme is to strengthen consumption, on the assumption that growth depends predominantly on the volume of consumption. this programme appropriately focuses on the quality elements health protection, consumer rights protection, transparency with more information. the aim is to ensure, through the measures put in place by this programme, that the consumer benefits from the single market through informed choices. i believe that the elements of extreme appreciation are contained in the attention paid to product traceability, because through it content is given to the "made in", which otherwise would be an empty container. two elements of doubt. the first is traceability in e-commerce: the second is the out-of-court settlement of disputes. i reserve my assessment of these two uncertainties for the midterm review, but my vote today was overwhelmingly in favour. i thank my colleague mr rochefort.
in writing. - we voted in favour of this proposal which aims to ensure a high level of consumer protection, thanks to an annual budget of eur 25 million for seven years. part of these resources will be used to support the work of consumer organisations at european level, each of which recognises the importance of disseminating information, assisting consumers in exercising their rights and contributing to the preparation of legislative measures.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the rochefort report on the 'programme for consumer protection 2014-2020'. i think this text is very balanced. the commission has also proposed a budget of eur 188 million for more effective consumer protection policies.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the new consumer protection programme which will run from 2014 to 2020. the strengthening of consumer participation in the european market and consumer confidence in it should be considered as a priority. i agree with the three objectives that have been set: binding legal obligations, assistance on cross-border issues and complementary activities at national level. as regards the organic allocation of eur 188.8 million, i agree with the european consumer associations that they would have liked to see more money available.
in writing. - we support this report which aims to ensure that a high level of consumer protection is maintained within the european union and to enable consumers to make better use of their rights. it should be stressed that the regulation in question must enable the union to meet the new challenges of consumer policy up to 2020. the commission should also be able to use the information provided by the member states to assess the impact of the proposed measures on the environment and the environment.
in writing. − the participation of european consumers in the single market is of paramount importance as consumer spending in the eu stands at around 56% of the union's gdp. given the need for economic growth, it is clear that consumer protection plays a crucial role in the recovery. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, including the countries of the former soviet union, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe. the commission has also adopted a communication on the european consumer agenda.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on a consumer protection programme (2014-2020). this proposal aims to establish a framework for the financing of union initiatives in the field of consumer policy for the period 2014-2020 and should enable the union to respond to the new challenges posed by consumer policy up to 2020. the appropriation for this purpose is eur 175 million for 7 years, or eur 25 million per year at constant prices (i.e. eur 197 million for 7 years at constant prices). i am convinced that this proposal is a useful instrument to ensure that a high level of consumer protection is maintained within the european union and to enable consumers to make better use of their rights.
in writing. − the commission proposal for a regulation aimed to establish a framework for the financing of union initiatives in the field of consumer policy for the period 2014-2020. it should nevertheless be recalled that the regulation in question must enable the union to respond to the new challenges posed by consumer policy up to 2020. the matter is very important, as the long debate which has led to the amendments to the text today shows. i therefore support the compromise reached.
in writing. − the commission proposal for a regulation aims to establish a framework for the financing of union initiatives in the field of consumer policy for the period 2014-2020. it is compatible with the amounts envisaged by the commission in its proposal for a budget for the europe 2020 strategy, which provides for an allocation of eur 175 million for 7 years, or eur 25 million per year at constant prices (i.e. eur 197 million for 7 years, at constant prices). the regulation is due to enter into force in january 2014. i support the rochefort report and fully share its rationale, as it aims to ensure that a high level of consumer protection is maintained within the eu and to enable consumers to have easier access to information on their rights. the report as a whole approves the four objectives proposed, in continuity with the previous programme, and for that reason i support it.
in writing. - i have decided to vote in favour of this proposal for a regulation because it sets out as priorities: the safety of products placed on the market, consumer education and information, consumer rights and collective redress procedures and adaptation to new legislation. in addition, the measure contains references to stimulate the creation of genuinely reliable websites for comparing product prices, to improve traceability and to meet the specific needs of vulnerable consumers.
in writing. − i believe that the commission's proposal for a framework for financing eu consumer policy initiatives for the period 2014-2020 will ensure a high level of consumer protection and enable consumers to make better use of their rights. however, in my view, it is not entirely without criticism. firstly, the proposed average annual amount has been reduced and this could lead to a decrease in the efficiency of the proposal. the report also calls for the establishment of a european union-wide network of national and regional authorities responsible for the implementation of the eu's external borders. with regard to objective 1, i believe that the rapex system needs to be updated and i agree with the rapporteur that it is necessary to take greater account of the globalisation of the production chain and the increasing interdependence of markets in relations with third countries, by concentrating administrative and enforcement cooperation on countries that produce a significant number of notifications. finally, i would like to stress the importance of dispute settlement mechanisms in ensuring that they are used by as many people as possible, saving time and money for public administrations and private individuals.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the moreira report on the management of certain community tariff quotas for high-quality beef, pigmeat, poultrymeat, wheat and rye and bran, germ and other residues, which concerns the necessary adaptation of the legislation to the new rules on delegated acts.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this proposal. the negotiations were long and complex, both in substance and method, and my group found the right balance with the rapporteur. i think that the european parliament must always be very careful when it comes to delegating power to the european commission through delegated or implementing acts.
in writing. - i strongly support mr moreira's report and therefore i shall vote in favour. the amendments to the main text will not penalise italian farmers as has unfortunately happened in the past and will allow greater flexibility in the sectoral annexes.
in writing. - the report concerns the alignment of regulation 774/1994 with the new articles 290 and 291 of the tfeu, without changing the aims and subject matter of the regulation. the measure concerns the management of certain community tariff quotas for certain types of meat and cereals (beef of high quality, pigmeat, poultrymeat, wheat, barley and rye, bran, germ and other residues). i am voting in favour of the text as it contains only technical adjustments, necessary for alignment with the system of delegated and implementing acts following the lisbon treaty and entered into force by regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
in writing. - mr moreira's text on the opening and administration of certain tariff quotas for high-quality meat, pigmeat, poultrymeat and other foodstuffs is nothing but an amendment to the regulation on the opening and administration of these tariff quotas in line with the procedures of the lisbon treaty. the current commission proposal aims to align regulation (ec) no 774/94, which gave the commission the power to adopt the necessary implementing measures and to amend the regulation in the event of adjustments to the volumes and other conditions of the quota system, in particular by decisions on the conclusion of agreements with third countries.
in writing. - the current commission proposal was aimed at aligning council regulation (ec) no 774/94 opening and providing for the administration of certain community tariff quotas for certain meat and cereals with articles 290 and 291 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu). i welcome the amendments to the report that have been voted on.
in writing. - i believe that an essential element that must be preserved is the mandatory labelling of the origin of processed products. the labelling of origin is of enormous importance for the european market and for consumers. since it has been shown that certain 'low-quality' products are mainly produced in certain regions or countries, this obligation would allow the distribution of quality products on the market and would ensure that the consumer makes an informed choice of the product. on the other hand, labelling must not impose an excessive economic or administrative burden on undertakings: the label must be a symbol of quality, not the result of a bureaucratic process that exceeds the limits of what is feasible. for example, a label should not indicate the origin of each individual ingredient in a product. for these reasons i believe that the commission should continue along the lines set out in its legislative proposal by making the indication of the origin mark compulsory for meat of processed products. at the same time, however, it must balance this obligation with the results of its impact assessment, avoiding excessive costs and administrative burdens for undertakings.
in writing. − i support this report as it will be mutually beneficial for the parties involved. imports of olive oil and other agricultural products from turkey will be another step towards solidifying cooperation and improving political and economic interests, and most importantly a step closer to the accession of turkey to eu.
in writing. - i support the moreira report, which amends the existing legislation to bring it into line with the new rules on delegated and implementing acts.
in writing. − the introduction of delegated and implementing acts has required some minor adjustments to some acts already in force, as in this case. it is therefore for the sake of legislative consistency that i voted in favour of this measure.
in writing. the report concerns the amendment of regulations (ec) no 2008/97, (ec) no 779/98 and (ec) no 1506/98 concerning imports of olive oil and other agricultural products from turkey. this variation concerns the commission's powers and competences and relates only to technical adjustments. i am voting in favour of the text as it aims to bring the existing rules into line with the system of implementing and delegated acts introduced by the treaty of lisbon (articles 290 and 291 tfeu).
in writing. - i voted against the report on the import of olive oil and other agricultural products from turkey. here again, as in the past, we are again discussing and deliberating on very sensitive trade issues relating to relations with non-eu countries. as was the case with morocco first and mercosur later, just to mention the most striking cases, i strongly disagree with the deliberate choice to open our borders to third countries without first providing adequate guarantees to our producers - in the case of olive oil - . we cannot imagine that our producers, who are already suffering from a severe economic crisis, are paying the price of competition on the downward side.
in writing. - i voted against the report by mr vital moreira, the portuguese member of parliament, who proposed amending the regulations to facilitate the import of olive oil and other agricultural products from turkey. as a member of the eu-turkey joint delegation, i am aware of the importance of improving relations with turkey in a broad sense, but i believe that the european union, its producers, its consumers and the control bodies are not yet prepared in this case. i believe that the opening up of the european market to a product such as olive oil of dubious quality and traceability cannot be allowed, because it would not only increase the already many difficulties caused by the fall in prices for italian producers in the southern regions, but also pose a direct risk to the health of consumers.
in writing. mr moreira's text on the import of olive oil and other agricultural products from turkey concerns the amendment of the regulations in question concerning the import into the community of agricultural products originating in turkey. those regulations confer on the commission powers enabling it to adopt measures for the application of the import arrangements for products originating in turkey. again in line with the procedures of the lisbon treaty, the amendment of these regulations represents eu legislative coherence on the basis of the changes imposed by the treaty.
in writing. - the council, parliament and commission have concluded trilogue operations which allow the finalisation of the procedure for this proposal for a regulation, now aligned with the new procedure for implementing acts and delegated acts of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the risks arising from the use of certain substances in the production of certain products. parliament will, however, be left with the ultimate right to object to a draft delegated act. the risk is clear: the internal market will be exposed to imports of oil of dubious quality and traceability from non-eu producers, the products themselves will be exposed to counterfeiting and consumers to total misinformation. i voted against the adoption of the measure, in disagreement with my group, because i believe that turkey is not a loyal trading partner and that it is not possible to encourage the import of olive oil and other agricultural products from that country by creating a further reduction in prices on the european olive market.
in writing. - i believe that the european union has a duty to defend the interests of its regions, while this proposal undermines the economic health of puglia, my region, and of many other european mediterranean regions whose economy is based primarily on agricultural production, such as olive oil. a reduction in customs duties on the turkish market could have serious effects on the economic and social fabric of these regions, which are already experiencing a period of financial difficulties linked to the serious crisis that has hit europe, with very serious consequences for a large number of entrepreneurs and agricultural employees, who would face a large influx of foreign products. in addition, the reduction of duties would also have negative consequences for the whole european market, which would be affected first and foremost in terms of quality. the new products, which would enjoy easier access to the european market, might be competitive in terms of price, but would still fall far short of the quality standards guaranteed by products from many southern european regions in general and from puglia in particular.
in writing. i have expressed my support for the report by mr moreira on imports of olive oil and other agricultural products from turkey. the vote today brings this proposal for a regulation into line with the new procedure for implementing and delegated acts of the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
in writing. - i supported mr bartolozzi's report because i fully agree with the need for clearer rules on the indication of origin and the promotion of the quality of wine products. a long process that has led to a good result: the text improves the applicability, legibility and clarity of eu legislation on aromatised wine products, introduces a quality policy and lays down very precise rules on protection against any form of false or misleading indication, in order to protect consumer safety and the production process itself.
in writing. - flavoured wine products play an important role for the agricultural sector in the european union. they represent a significant share of the european wine sector and constitute a market of great importance from a qualitative and quantitative point of view both at european and international level. the european union accounts for around 90% of the world's production of aromatised wine products with traditional production roots in many member states. i welcome the main elements of the european commission's proposal for a regulation, supporting in particular its aims of simplification and improvement. in particular, i agree with the general approach of the proposal, which is aimed at both harmonizing the regulation in question with the development of legislation on wine quality policy and bringing it into line with the treaty on the functioning of the european union. i therefore welcome the commission's intervention to modernise a legal provision which has so far ensured the smooth functioning of the market for these products but which must be adapted to the regulatory developments in this field. i agree with the rapporteur that there is a legal requirement to provide a complementary and comprehensive framework for geographical indications for processed products.
in writing. - we voted in favour of the report by mr bartolozzi, which sets out the rules for the traceability of aromatised wine products such as vermouth. a product which represents a significant share of the sector's market, both in terms of quality and quantity. not only that, but on a global scale, the european union produces 90% of all the flavoured wines sold worldwide. it is therefore understandable that it is important to define precise rules on geographical indications for all products, whether from eu member states or from third countries.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the bartolozzi report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the definition, designation, presentation, labelling and protection of geographical indications of aromatised wine products. the text is balanced and aims to update the existing regulation by bringing it into line with the rules of the common organisation of the market and the treaty of lisbon.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal for a regulation, considering it necessary and timely to update an outdated regulatory framework in the aromatised wines sector in the light of the most recent regulatory developments, such as the lisbon treaty and comitology, wto rules, including the trips agreements, and the 2008 wine sector reform. the commission has therefore updated an important regulation on which the whole discipline of this important part of european wine products is currently based. among the many provisions, the criteria governing the recognition of new geographical indications, the ultimate guarantee of the recognition of products linked to territories, are also revised. the overall objective of the updating is therefore to improve the quality of these products in order to guarantee and protect the safety of consumers against any abuse and, at the same time, to protect the sector's production from unfair competition.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal because it is a text which improves the applicability, legibility and clarity of the european union legislation on aromatised wine products, which introduces a quality policy and which gives very precise rules as regards protection against any form of false or misleading indication as to the provenance, origin, composition, content of wine or alcohol, production methods or essential qualities of the products. this regulation will be of particular relevance to the sector. flavoured wine products play an important role for consumers, producers and the agricultural sector in the european union in general. they represent a significant share of the european wine sector and constitute a market of considerable importance from a qualitative and quantitative point of view, both domestically and internationally. this regulation, and the new rules on the protection of geographical indications, will ensure that the safety of consumers and the safety of the industry are protected at the same time.
in writing. as a great enthusiast of providing information to consumers to help them make choices, i voted in favour of this proposal for a regulation. i believe that only through transparency, which in economic models corresponds to perfect information, can we achieve the ideal of homo oeconomicus, who makes informed choices and maximizes his own well-being. in this specific area too, i appreciated the increase in detail to be provided so that the consumer can buy and allow supply and demand to meet where it is most appropriate for them to meet, reducing disappointment, dissatisfaction and above all fraud and deception.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the bartolozzi report because i believe that aromatised wine products are a resource of great importance for the eu, which manages 90% of world production. i think that the rapporteur's decision to accept the commission's proposal for a regulation simplifying regulation 1601/91 and making it clearer is the most appropriate one. in particular, i agree that the european parliament should introduce a number of technical amendments regulating the flavouring, sweetening, colouring and possible addition of alcohol in these products. finally, the privileges granted to national supply chains which distort competition should be reduced and progressively eliminated.
in writing. - i vote in favour. the provisions concerning the definition, designation, presentation, labelling and protection of geographical indications of aromatised wine products needed updating, especially in the light of technological innovation in recent years. however, i would like to stress that it is very important to take account of traditional production methods as well. the new measures applicable to aromatised wine products should also contribute to achieving a high level of consumer protection, to preventing misleading practices and to achieving market transparency and fair conditions of competition.
in writing. the report concerns the replacement of the existing regulation (eec) no 1601/91 by adapting it to the rules of the cmos and the treaty of lisbon. i am voting in favour of the text as the agreements reached concern the definition, designation, presentation and sales denomination of aromatised wines, aromatised wine-based drinks, aromatised wine-product cocktails and the labelling and protection of geographical indications of aromatised wine-product products.
in writing. - as an italian mep, i am particularly interested in everything to do with the wine sector. it is a source of pride and deep pride to see how this sector has managed to weather the shock wave of the economic crisis. these are people who get up every holy morning and work hard to make quality products. it is precisely because of my respect for these workers that we must work to make sure that the european union simplifies their lives by streamlining procedures and clarifying ineffective rules. at the same time, the european institutions have a duty to protect the quality wine sector from external attacks (though unfortunately there is no shortage of internal ones) that undermine the market. the report by mr bartolozzi calls for rapid restructuring of the sector by phasing out ineffective and costly intervention measures and reorientating expenditure to meet consumer demand and make european wine more competitive.
in writing. - today, a further step forward in quality was taken by updating regulation (eec) no 1610/91 on the general rules for aromatised wine products. this is an important issue for the european union, which accounts for about 90% of world production, with traditional production taking root in many member states, especially in the central and southern parts of the continent. this is in the wider context of the simplification of the common agricultural policy, in parallel with the adoption of the single cmo regulation. the aim is to provide consumers with clear information on the nature of products by providing them with a complete picture of geographical indications, definition, designation, presentation and labelling, as well as traditional production methods.
in writing. − flavoured wine products play an important role for consumers, producers and the agricultural sector in general in the european union. they represent a significant share of the european wine sector and constitute a market of great importance from a qualitative and quantitative point of view, both domestically and internationally. we therefore welcome this proposal for a regulation laying down general rules on the definition, designation and presentation of aromatised wines, aromatised wine-based drinks and aromatised wine-product cocktails, since, as well as the protection of geographical indications for these products, it applies to all products placed on the market of the european union, whether produced in the member states or in third countries, as well as to those produced in the union for export. we share the main objectives of: improving the applicability and clarity of eu legislation and introducing a well-defined quality policy for these products; some sales denominations will then be updated in the light of the possibility of increasing the level of wine instead of adding alcohol directly, in order to ensure that the consumer is properly informed and the definitions used are updated to technical developments.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of mr bartolozzi's report, and i intend to support the proposal to improve eu legislation in the wine sector. a specific policy to inform consumers about the technical development of these drinks leads to a better knowledge of the quality they have achieved on the market. the proposal also introduces the need for appropriate labelling of the elements characterising the processing of aromatised wine products, which will improve readability and food information to protect consumers.
in writing. the proposal for a regulation on the definition, presentation, labelling and protection of geographical indications of aromatised wine products aims to simplify and modernise the legislation in this field. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the information on the quality and origin of the product is clearer and more consumer-friendly. in addition, by this regulation, the eu brings the rules on aromatised wine products into line with the requirements of the world trade organisation.
in writing. - i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on the work he has done on this important dossier, which represents an important step forward for consumers, producers and the wine sector in the european union in general. i support the report.
in writing. the regulation adopted today, for which i was rapporteur for the s&d group, aims to update the regulatory framework for an important agricultural product such as aromatised wines. the legislation in force so far dates back to the 1990s and today's vote, while not changing the general purpose of the legislation, introduced amendments to align the specific rules on flavoured wines with the framework regulation (eu) no 1169/2011 on the provision of food information to consumers. clear rules have also been introduced which take account of developments in production methods and the evolution of relevant markets in order to ensure high quality schemes for the products sold and to allow consumers greater clarity and legibility of labelling in order to ensure fully informed purchasing choices.
in writing. - in view of the latest techniques and the increasingly demanding consumer demands, mr bartolozzi's proposal for a regulation simplifies and updates the regulation governing aromatised wine products. the draft regulation concerns primarily measures relating to the designation, presentation and labelling of aromatised wine products, providing for the possibility of indicating the vine variety in the absence of a geographical indication. as regards the technical specifications, the proposal aims, inter alia, to reiterate the exclusivity of the designations established to ensure adequate information for the consumer and to extend the list of sweeteners provided for. the legal aspects of the proposal also call for the provision of rules on geographical indications for aromatised wine products, supplementing those for wine products. i therefore voted in favour of mr bartolozzi's report because i believe that this sector plays a major role for consumers and producers in the agricultural sector in the eu and in italy, representing a significant share of the european and italian wine sector and a qualitatively and quantitatively important market both domestically and internationally.
in writing. the proposal for a regulation on aromatised wines and other wine-based drinks is of great importance for the whole sector in europe, particularly for italy which represents quality products and brands. the legislation affects a whole family of products, of which over 70% of those marketed in the european area are produced in italy. the main objectives are to improve the applicability and clarity of eu legislation on aromatised wine products and to introduce a well-defined quality policy for these products. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that regulation of organic products, information to consumers on labelling, the definition of flavouring, alcoholing, sweetening and colouring processes are important. the existing rules on geographical indications will be aligned with the agreement on trade-related aspects of intellectual property rights (trips agreement) within the wto. i believe that the need to adapt this legislation corresponds to an adaptation to the obligations already assumed by the union, and does not contain rules which have prevented the evolution of the sector and the consolidation of tradition. i hope that the sector, which is affected by this legislation today, will not be penalized by subsequent tax legislation on indirect taxes and excise duties.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mr bartolozzi on the geographical indications of aromatised wine products. after some two years of negotiations, a text was reached which improves the applicability, legibility and clarity of the european union legislation on aromatised wine products and introduces a quality policy with very precise rules on protection against any form of false or misleading indication of the origin, composition, content of wine or alcohol, production methods or essential qualities of the products. the new rules on the protection of geographical indications contained in the regulation have taken a step forward in ensuring that the safety of consumers and the production activity in the wine sector are protected at the same time.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this proposal because i believe that it will be essential to spread carbon capture and storage technology in order to reduce substantially the emissions from major industrial plants, while also allowing the continued use of fossil fuels with much lower consequences on global warming. unfortunately, in recent years most projects have been withdrawn or have not met the strict and inflexible requirements that have been set. this proposal is in the direction of agreeing an eu target to concentrate efforts and encourage a part of the existing funds to be able to reach the target set for 2035.
in writing. - i do not share the position taken in the davies report on the implementation of 'carbon capture and storage technology (ccs) '. as i do not think that the arguments put forward are sufficient to justify investment in ccs, i did not intend to support this text with my vote.
in writing. - i am in favour of the report, which provides a clear direction on a matter of urgent revision, without however intending to assume any contrary view. for example, we are aware that the provision of ccs innovation funds, even if obtained from the sale of emission allowances, can be interpreted as a subsidy to fossil fuel consumption and therefore a disincentive to invest in renewables. however, it is undeniable that renewables, also because of their excellent performance, have benefited from important measures and that episodes of retroactive taxation are strongly opposed by the commission and by a large part of this house. nor can we, in discussing ambitious emission reduction targets for 2050, ignore the iea's estimates of the share of fossil fuels in the energy mix up to 2030. ccs technology is proven, economically and environmentally efficient, and simply requires a stable framework with minimal prospects to encourage its industrial deployment. it would be unjustifiable to pass up this opportunity. as the back-loading story has shown, we must reduce the risk of succumbing to complacency, with the result that we find ourselves with a production system that is inadequate to global competition when the negative economic cycle comes to an end.
in writing. - the european union is well advanced in this area. however, the current crisis period has not allowed the directive adopted in 2011 to be fully operational. this report attempts to capture the situation and i agree with my colleagues, including the italian mrs gardini, who stressed the importance of not underestimating environmental issues even in economically unfavourable times and of seeking the resources to encourage the most virtuous behaviour. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the introduction of a european standard for the measurement of the emission of pollutants from the engines of motor vehicles is a welcome step towards the creation of a european standard for the measurement of pollutants from the engines of motor vehicles. ccs is the only tool to achieve significant reductions in co2 emissions from industrial sources while keeping costs low and production levels high; it also supports environmental protection. this technology can significantly reduce emissions from fossil fuel power plants. the development of ccs technologies in the eu must therefore be encouraged.
in writing. - five years ago it seemed highly desirable that the european union was destined to become the world leader in the diffusion of carbon capture and storage (ccs) technology. if global co2 emissions are to be significantly reduced by 2050 at the lowest possible cost, the spread of ccs technology will be essential. it serves to reduce emissions from major industrial plants and may allow some continued use of fossil fuels with much less global warming. parliament must ensure that technology is put into practice which has a key role to play in combating the threat of global warming. i support the report.
mr president, ehealth is a great challenge and also an opportunity. as i also stressed in the report on age-related diseases in women, which i was rapporteur for, ehealth can improve access to medical care, which is often not available in hard-to-reach areas, and can improve the quality and frequency of specialist care required by the health conditions of older people, who are often isolated for reasons of mobility. let us not forget that public expenditure on health is increasing, partly because of the ageing of the population. so e-health could save money and improve health care at the same time. accessibility is therefore: but of course also security, legal certainty, control of the online health service, which must be guaranteed and certified; this is obviously for efficiency of service and patient confidence.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution because, although equality should be a fundamental principle in the european union, there is still discrimination concerning the access to the healthcare system. as a matter of fact, the healthcare system is in many cases restricted as a result of financial constraints. i do believe that the ehealth system could play a key role in reducing these inequalities. nonetheless, member states must invest in affordable, high-quality health systems. moreover, some patients are obliged to undergo medical treatment outside their country of residence and this is not acceptable. also, i would like to highlight that every citizen should have the opportunity to use it tools or the skills needed to take advantage of ehealth services and we have the duty to make this possible.
in writing. − the increasing demand for health services due to an ageing population, the mobility of patients and health professionals, the increased expectations of citizens regarding the quality of healthcare and increasingly tight health budgets have led to major challenges for health systems in the european union. e-health, in my view, could be part of the answer to these challenges as a tool to improve access to health services by citizens as well as to reduce waiting times and, above all, to contribute to the achievement of safe, effective and quality healthcare. to achieve those objectives, it is necessary to achieve the interoperability of european health systems and to define at union level certification and authentication schemes for healthcare providers to cooperate with each other, across language and competence boundaries, in order to provide quality services based on patient safety. in order to give citizens and healthcare professionals confidence and belief in the benefits of ehealth applications, it is necessary to provide them with legal certainty: data protection, confidentiality, accountability are key to the establishment of successful ehealth services.
in writing. - the development of the so-called 'ehealth' as analysed in the ayuso report is certainly important, but i believe that this text, by calling for greater investment in this area, does not take due account of the state of health of health budgets in countries such as italy, after the implementation of austerity policies. that is why i abstained in this vote.
in writing. - if i may make a historical reference, i would remind you that the first telemedicine service was set up more than 80 years ago in australia, faced with the problem of providing medical care to a territory the size of france. it was the royal flying doctors' corps. we see how our communities have long faced the practical and logistical challenges of health care: in this sense, the uncoordinated flourishing of telemedicine applications should be seen as a sign that societies and markets are anticipating policy. some technologies, such as cloud-based file management, or devices for the treatment of chronic diseases such as diabetes, are now widely available, partly as a result of the growth of a specific consumer market. the report deserves a favourable vote, with reference to the recommendations on the effects of economies of scale for italy alone, the superior council of health estimates at 14 billion per year the possible savings resulting from the digitization of medicine especially on the empowerment of health service users, a necessary condition to overcome the constraints of the aging population and the maintenance of advanced health coverage for the entire population.
in writing. − i voted in favour because ehealth is an innovative tool for improving the quality and effectiveness of healthcare provided to the public in the european union. although access to high-quality healthcare is a recognised fundamental right, the increasing demand for health services resulting from an ageing population and increasingly tight health budgets have put eu health systems in a difficult position. e-health could be an ambitious solution to these problems, as a tool to improve working conditions in healthcare, reduce waiting times and facilitate access to healthcare services for people living in remote or sparsely populated areas. nevertheless, achieving these objectives requires health service providers to cooperate across language and competence boundaries, technical standardisation, interoperability of european health systems and the definition of certification and authentication schemes at eu level. finally, in order to give citizens confidence and belief in the benefits of ehealth applications, it is necessary to provide them with legal certainty and privacy protection.
in writing. i voted in favour of this own-initiative report. e-health can be a valid way to address the great challenges that our societies are already facing: the european union is committed to the development of a european health system that is based on the principles of the european union's health policy, and to the development of a european health system that is based on the principles of the european union's health policy. e-health can help reduce waiting times, improve access to care for those living in remote areas, provide more information about services that are covered. however, such a system requires a high use of technical standards to ensure interoperability of health systems through the use of certification and authentication that ensure consumer confidence through legal certainty.
in writing. − the ehealth action plan 2012-2020 is of key importance, especially considering the challenges associated with healthcare today. in particular, the ageing of the population requires a thorough rethinking of the health system in the various member states. the introduction of digital and electronic tools in healthcare is part of the solution to the problem. at the same time, i would like to stress the importance of data protection, since health data, particularly those of elderly people, are particularly sensitive and it is necessary to ensure that the rights of citizens who are patients are adequately protected.
in writing. − in a europe that is about to open up its frontiers in health matters, it is essential to standardize the electronic and computer systems as well: one-click healthcare is not just a slogan, it's a reality. i am thinking in particular of the younger generations, who are familiar with the medium, but also of our elderly who are now used to using computers. let us adapt and adapt to european regulations. it is a way of ensuring quality health care even at a time when budgets are becoming ever tighter. the password must be: the european commission has launched a new initiative to promote the sharing of good practice and knowledge by creating a simple and appropriate interoperable system. with this game we have the opportunity to respond to the increasing expectations of the citizens regarding the quality of health care. this is a big opportunity.
in writing. − we believe that ehealth is a tool for improving the quality and effectiveness of healthcare in the 21st century, and a way of making it more universal and more accessible to all. it can improve access to health services for people living in remote or sparsely populated areas, as well as working conditions, reduce waiting times and, above all, contribute to the achievement of safe, effective and quality healthcare. however, european healthcare providers need to work together across language and competence boundaries to provide quality services that are patient-centred. to this end, technical standardisation, interoperability of european health systems and the definition of certification and authentication schemes at european union level are needed. in order to give citizens and healthcare professionals confidence and belief in the benefits of e-health applications, legal certainty should be provided. data protection, confidentiality, privacy or liability are some of the issues that need to be addressed if ehealth is to be successful.
in writing. − new technologies are an integral part of many sectors, including health. they are an unparalleled tool for improving the quality and efficiency of the health system, and represent a growing commercial sector. the challenges are many: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union. they require a coordinated and integrated approach at european level, with a focus on ehealth. the 2011 directive on the enforcement of patients' rights in cross-border healthcare has taken a step forward in this direction, creating a european ehealth network. the european parliament supports the commission in developing the sector, in particular through training of professionals and research.
in writing. - drastically reduced waiting times, access to services even from a distance, safe and competent assistance. these are the pillars of the text on the ehealth action plan 2012-2020. we must renew health care in europe, adapting it to the new century using the technology available. ehealth can be the answer to the demand for more healthcare by citizens, improve access to health services and ensure greater patient safety. the cooperation of the different national and local health services will be necessary and therefore work will have to be done to harmonize the certification system of the different european health systems.
in writing. − ehealth is a tool for improving the quality and effectiveness of healthcare in the 21st century, and a way of making it more universal. although access to quality healthcare is a recognised fundamental right, the increased demand for healthcare services resulting from an ageing population, the impact of chronic diseases, the mobility of patients and healthcare professionals, increased expectations of citizens regarding the quality of healthcare and increasingly tight health budgets have led to major challenges for eu health systems at the present time. i support this report in the hope that it will provide the union with the necessary tools to meet this challenge.
in writing. − while access to quality healthcare is a recognised fundamental right, the increased demand for healthcare services resulting from an ageing population, the impact of chronic diseases, the mobility of patients and healthcare professionals coupled with increasing public expectations of quality of healthcare and ever-tightening health budgets have brought major challenges to eu health systems. ehealth can be part of the answer to these problems and, more generally, to citizens' demands for improved cross-border healthcare, ensuring access to safe, effective and quality health services, including in remote or sparsely populated areas. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the technological and financial development of ehealth tools must be based primarily on the effectiveness and usefulness of the tools themselves in terms of improving the quality of life. the real challenge for 2020 is that ehealth is an effective reality especially for patients, including the elderly and disabled, for doctors and healthcare professionals, as well as for patient associations. they are the ones who will benefit from them, and to do so they must not only be convinced of their usefulness but also know how to use them.
in writing. − ehealth can provide an important tool to meet the challenges of an ageing european population, the mobility of patients and healthcare professionals, and ever-decreasing national health budgets. it is already a global reality: since 2010, the global telemedicine market has grown by 18,6% and in 2012 eight member states had operational e-prescribing systems, five had partially operational systems and four were in the process of launching national programmes. i appreciate the balanced approach taken in the text: on the one hand, the advantages in terms of access to services (quality, safety, cost reduction) are emphasised. greece is an excellent example, with a national electronic prescription system saving 30 million per month. the report takes into account a number of risk factors for the health and the patient's interest, such as the achievement of a high degree of interoperability of national systems or the respect of the patient's privacy: the latter must be clearly informed and guaranteed that their privacy is not infringed, eliminating any legal uncertainty in this respect.
in writing. − the development of 'ehealth' can provide an answer to the demand for more and better healthcare by citizens, as a tool to improve access to healthcare services for people living in remote or sparsely populated areas, as well as to reduce waiting times and, above all, to contribute to the achievement of safe, effective and quality healthcare. to achieve these objectives, healthcare providers need to work together to ensure, across language and competence boundaries, quality services that safeguard patient safety.
mr president, food safety and consumer confidence must be our priorities. this can only happen if there is transparency and full traceability. parliament has repeatedly called for the labelling of the origin of meat in processed foodstuffs: it is therefore important that the labelling of origin is also mandatory for meat used as an ingredient. we must vigorously combat food fraud, which has increased in recent times and has had a negative effect on consumer confidence. it is enough to think of the scandal surrounding the use of horse meat instead of beef. and so is public health. it is also important to define fraud at a harmonised level in the european union, since there is no common definition.
in writing. − i voted for this report because it is necessary to regain consumer confidence in the single market for foods, as the agri-food sector is one of the biggest sectors in the eu economy, providing 48 million jobs and worth eur 715 billion annually. i would like to point out the importance of inspections and the effectiveness of unannounced inspections, which should be made regular and mandatory by member states. additionally, there is a need for member states to improve coordination between different health authorities, given that a lack of adequate information exchange often paves the way for dishonest actors in the supply chain.
in writing. - i have approved this proposal because i believe it is essential to pay increasing attention to food fraud, also in the light of the many cases of fraudulent labelling that have been highlighted in recent years. high-profile cases, such as the horse meat scandal, have had a strong negative impact on consumer confidence in the food chain. more cooperation between member states is needed to tackle fraudulent food trafficking. in addition, penalties should be increased to at least double the economic benefits of fraud.
in writing. - i supported the de lange report which analyses fraud in the food chain and the controls involved. i fully share the positions contained in the text, especially after the intense battle i have fought personally against agropiracy and counterfeiting, which have affected the typical products of our territories and our consumers. finally, the european parliament calls on the commission to pay greater attention to this phenomenon and to take more decisive measures to combat it, and for this reason i can only support the initiative.
in writing. - i support this resolution with my vote in favour, considering it essential to instill new confidence in european consumers in the safety of food products throughout the supply chain. in the current context of free movement of goods, consumers are alarmed by reports of the increasing number of food fraud cases, even beyond their own borders, and are well aware that these can pose a direct threat to their health. these concerns have a negative impact on the agri-food sector, where a single scandal can damage the global image of this key sector of the european economy. along with increased sanctions and controls to combat fraud, an organic review of current eu legislation providing more information to consumers and providing for mandatory clear but comprehensive labelling on the origin and composition of all food products, including processed food, is now a necessity. the ambitious but increasingly timely objective, given the increasing globalisation of food production, must be to achieve full traceability of the food chain at all stages of production. such legislation would be a guarantee for consumers, as well as rewarding virtuous producers and quality products, a symbol and a real resource for europe.
in writing. - it is only an own-initiative report, so it has no legislative value, but it shows how close the european parliament is to the needs of the people and how quickly it can respond to the needs of the moment. in fact, it was only a few months ago that the news of improper use of horse meat in certain preparations was reported, and parliament reacted immediately by preparing a report to introduce the concept of 'food fraud', which had not existed until now. in fact, unless there were other cases (public health problems, for example), there was no legal basis to punish food counterfeiting or adulteration of food. when i voted in favour i thought it was time and i hope that the commission will now follow up just as quickly.
in writing. − the report deals with fraud and controls in the food chain following recent irregularities in the eu; the commission therefore proposes a number of practical measures to combat this phenomenon, which seems to have been exacerbated by the economic crisis. i am voting in favour of the text because among the proposals i support are: the setting up of a team to combat this phenomenon; the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules. other positive aspects are the sanctioning of non-compliant companies and finally the increase in the traceability of food ingredients through a clear and transparent labelling system.
in writing. − in recent years, repeated food fraud, as a result of fraudulent food labelling, has led european citizens to a complete lack of confidence in food safety. as my colleague has said, the products most at risk are olive oil, fish and organic products, all of which are commonly consumed. in particular, these frauds have weakened the competitiveness of exemplary farms, such as those in southern italy, which for generations have based their activity on products synonymous with quality and transparency. the report will strengthen controls throughout the supply chain: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal. this will be an attempt to regain the confidence of the consumer, who has been discouraged by the many food scandals that have occurred. these are the reasons why i voted in favour of the report, to support and give a voice to all those citizens who, like myself, have felt deceived by these false labels, substitutions and counterfeits.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the de lange report, which was adopted by a large majority in the chamber. in recent months a series of food scandals have led to the need to impose harsher sanctions on those who commit food fraud, to the detriment not only of consumers but also of honest producers. in addition to the well-known fraud in relation to horse meat, marketed as beef, i also dealt with rabbit meat as chairman of the committee on petitions. i have received from the italian trade association anlac a report concerning the existence of a parallel import market in italy for rabbits, mainly from china. this trade chain would use certain community countries such as spain and hungary as bases for a trade triangulation. the illegal imported rabbits, often containing antibiotics, would then be sold in italy and the european union as products of italian origin, unbeknownst to italian and european consumers. if this were true, it would be unacceptable harm to consumers and producers: the eu has a duty to investigate and act.
in writing. - as i have already stressed this morning in my speech on the european consumer programme, food fraud is one of the most important issues still to be resolved. all sorts of fraud are certainly deplorable, but in this case we have a not insignificant aggravating factor, due to the fact that here we can have dangerous consequences also from the point of view of human health. the best way to combat this phenomenon would be, on the one hand, to have more frequent and thorough checks and, on the other, to provide for legislative measures that can adequately counter it. the basis for all this must also be the need to achieve a real traceability of the supply chain, from the origin to the consumer, in order to prevent the continuous circumvention of overly permissive rules, which leave room for numerous fraudulent behaviour. italy has long been fighting to protect its production, but it has often found itself alone in europe fighting a battle that goes far beyond the borders of our continent. our country may be the one most affected by this phenomenon, but i believe that this is a matter which must fundamentally concern the whole of europe, because consumers in all other countries are also suffering the damage in the end.
in writing. - the report by mr de lange on the 'food crisis, fraud in the food chain and related controls' sets out the list of food products most prone to counterfeiting and outlines any measures to be taken to protect farms and consumers to ensure food safety. the eu does not have a specific legislative framework on food fraud, focusing instead on consumer protection, and consequently there are fewer controls than there should be. the text therefore seeks to draw attention to those products which are most at risk, such as olive oil, fish, milk and organic products, and which consumers are called upon to purchase with greater care.
in writing. - i approve the report.
in writing. - the food scandals, most recently the horse meat scandal, have seriously damaged consumer confidence in one of the key sectors of the european economy: the agri-food sector. to prevent further cases, it is first necessary to provide a harmonised definition of 'food fraud' which does not yet exist at european level. the control instruments provided for in the amendment of regulation (ec) no 882/2004, for which i am the rapporteur, will also need to be strengthened, including the creation of a european fraud authority. finally, the penalties for fraud in the food chain should be tightened up. member states must therefore take action to implement a coordinated european strategy on food fraud in order to protect the public health of consumers.
in writing. - recent cases of food fraud, such as the sale of horse meat sold as beef, show that the eu needs to strengthen controls and review both the operation of the production chain and food labelling legislation. it is worrying to note the steady increase in cases of food fraud exploiting the weaknesses of an increasingly complex and cross-border production chain.
in writing. − food safety and consumer interests have always been at the heart of the work of the envi committee and the european parliament. added to these aspects is the related but distinct issue of food fraud, which has received increasing attention in recent years following cases of fraudulent food labelling and other food fraud affecting the eu food chain. examples such as road salt used in food, the marketing of common eggs as organic and, more recently, the equine meat scandal seem to indicate that there may be a persistent or structural problem. these cases of food fraud have already had a negative impact on consumer confidence in the food chain, creating a huge paradox: food is safer than ever, but consumer confidence is low. i share the reasoning behind the report and i voted in favour of its adoption. however, i voted against my group on certain amendments to promote the indication of the origin of products on the label and the short food chain of 'km 0 products'.
in writing. - i have decided to vote in favour of this report because the attention paid to the phenomenon of food fraud and the call for more decisive action to combat it are absolutely agreeable. i particularly appreciated the recognition that free trade agreements and the creation of so-called long chains played an important role in the food crisis, while short chains (local and regional) can provide greater transparency. the requirement that the negotiation of trade agreements with third countries should not involve any change in european legislation on food safety is also a positive one.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution because i believe that labour inspection plays an important role in protecting employees’ rights. it is the responsibility of companies to ensure legal working conditions but unfortunately they do not always do so. irregularly employed workers suffer from consequences such as the fear of having an accident or being caught, which in turn affects the productivity of companies and the economy as a whole. we need to win the fight against unsafe working environments. also, in this time of economic crisis, undeclared work has negative consequences for member states’ economies and creates social and financial insecurity. for all these reasons, all member states must commit to taking the necessary measures on this issue at national level.
in writing. - i have endorsed this report with my colleagues from the epp, as we all believe that more must be done to combat the use of undeclared work, which has increased considerably as a result of the economic and social changes of the last decades. the shadow economy is harmful to the economy of a country as a whole, because it affects the quality of products and services, as well as the productivity of companies. it also promotes unfair competition in the single market through the loss of tax revenue as a result of tax evasion and non-payment. the report voted by parliament specifically aims to help labour inspectorates operate more effectively, enforcing workers' rights and preventing abuse by employers.
in writing. - while i agree with the content of the report and the text in many respects, i find the paragraphs calling for the labour inspectorate's intervention in cases of undeclared work involving illegal immigrants to prevent the initiation of expulsion procedures for illegal immigrants to be extremely problematic. that is why i voted against.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution which clearly and unequivocally reaffirms the importance of labour inspections in improving working conditions. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's social policy is not distorted by the introduction of new forms of work, such as parttime work, temporary work, or the creation of new jobs.
in writing. − the report's content denounces an insufficient and weak control mechanism towards companies that provide their services in an eu country other than their own; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the member states are able to comply with the directive. these points are acceptable, but the text contains some paragraphs concerning workers from third countries (including illegal immigrants): it shall be specified that the controls carried out by the competent authorities must not result in expulsion proceedings or penalties in the event of irregularities. given the ambiguity of the content, i shall abstain.
in writing. − the european union is increasingly confronted with undeclared work and the shadow economy, which have damaging consequences for the economy as a whole, affecting the quality of products and services, the productivity of firms and promoting unfair competition in the market. we support this report which highlights the role of labour inspection systems in the fight against undeclared work in the eu. at present, in many member states, all forms of action against undeclared work are facing difficulties due to the reduction in funding. to have effective labour inspections, europe needs more than non-binding regulatory instruments: we have a great deal of work to do in this area, and we have to do it in a way that is not too difficult to do. this must start with strengthening fundamental social and labour rights in the single market and a commitment to promoting fair competition and workers' rights. this principle should be enshrined in the primary law of the union by adopting a protocol on social progress, in order to protect fundamental social rights from any adverse impact of national reforms and austerity measures.
in writing. - the so-called 'black' labour is a scourge that affects all the countries of the union, from worker safety to tax evasion. it is a highly sensitive issue that must be combated at community level. of course, inspections by the competent bodies to check that workplaces and workers are in good order are the first step, but the funds for such checks do not seem to be sufficient. the aim of the text is to highlight the role of labour inspection systems in combating undeclared work and to increase the funding for inspection bodies.
in writing. - the economic and social changes of the last few decades are having a major impact on the world of work. the globalisation of the world economy has had a negative impact on traditionally safe and fair employment relationships. subcontracting, outsourcing, precariousness, work intensification and job insecurity are undermining the quality of employment in europe. this deterioration in industrial relations is accompanied by a phenomenon of non-respect for labour law and workers' rights. the european union is increasingly confronted with the problem of undeclared work and the underground economy. i hope that what has been agreed today will be able to remedy the many problems with workers' rights.
in writing. - immediate action is needed to increase the resources needed for labour inspections in the member states, the only way to combat undeclared work, shadow selfemployment and social dumping in the long term. national controls also play an important role in implementing social legislation and ensuring a level playing field in the eu.
mr president, we voted today on a resolution on worker participation in the profits of companies. it is an important first step for worker profit-sharing or ownership of enterprises, towards truly inclusive growth. particularly in times of crisis, employee participation develops a sense of belonging to the company, motivation, pride, internal meritocracy. the following are essential to overcome the conflict between owners and workers: all row in the same direction; the responsibilities, choices and strategies are shared; in particular, redundancies and relocations can be avoided; the continuity of the enterprise is defended and the work is defended. it is therefore important that the commission does everything possible to promote forms of employee participation and to ensure that each member state takes this important step.
mr president, the report by the committee on the work of mr bennion contains, in my view, an excellent proposal which i voted in favour of with great conviction. it calls on the member states to consider introducing measures to promote and encourage companies to allow workers to participate in the profits, but also in the capital, of the companies themselves. this could benefit not only large companies but also and above all small and mediumsized enterprises and the workers themselves, with a benefit in terms of the psychological dimension of the worker's contribution. at present, as the crisis has shown, workers are automatically only participating in the losses of the enterprises, through dismissals, forced transfers, reduction of working hours and so on. it is important, however, to imagine that the worker can feel that he is an active part not only of the company's growth but also of its decline. i believe that this is the way forward and it is no coincidence that the party in which i am active, the new centre right, has just made a proposal to the italian government in this regard. i think that is an important point to be made in this house, which today supports this strategic direction.
in writing. - i am pleased with the vote on what was the first report i have been given the task of drafting since i took up my duties as a member of the european parliament. i was asked by the econ committee to draw up part of the report, the main responsibility of which was with the envi committee. this is an interesting parliamentary initiative which may have important developments in the course of the next parliamentary term. i believe that the identification and definition of a common framework for the activation of employee participation in the activities of enterprises can be an interesting means of reviving european, and especially italian, enterprises, with particular reference to small and medium-sized enterprises.
in writing. - while the idea of workers' financial participation in the profits of the firm is acceptable, i believe that the bennion report actually goes beyond this aim, laying the foundations for the extension of the german model of joint management of enterprises to the whole of europe: i therefore did not intend to vote in favour of this text.
in writing. - in his laborem exercens, published before the crisis hit the western economies, blessed john paul ii had already denounced the risks to human dignity inherent in the processes of dehumanizing the dimension of work, from a value inherent in the development of the human personality to an intangible good, which can be traded like any other commodity. one of the barriers to this is the forms of employee participation in enterprises, the lighter forms of access to the owner company, the forms of joint management as a result of the company bargaining. the report clearly refers to a specific weltanschauung, that of natural law and the social doctrine of the church, in its historical application of the social market economy. as a popular european, i can only vote in favour. the only caveat, rightly noted in the report, is to ensure that the financial participation of workers is not subtly distorted in order to reduce the cost of labour. it is not by chance that the labour market reforms currently under discussion emphasise these aspects as complementary to the anchoring of a future recovery in a climate of social cohesion and of productivity incentives through flexibility, defined largely at the level of supplementary bargaining.
in writing. − in this resolution, the european parliament urges the member states to open up the employee financial participation (efp) schemes to all workers without any discrimination and taking into account the specific situation of small, medium and micro enterprises. the new european guideline also includes a notice that vet may be a form of employee bonus, thereby facilitating participation in capital or specific bonds, depending on the financial product used and the type of company. there is no doubt that a modern industrial relations system is the essential condition for economic growth, development and social cohesion. where companies (e.g. in germany) have promoted and adopted participation, both in financial and managerial terms, very positive economic and productive results have been achieved. in fact, the direct involvement of employees in the life of the company considerably increases the sense of responsibility, both in those who are in charge of the company and in those who work in the company. the full and direct awareness of the difficulties which may arise from the crisis gives those involved in the enterprise and those who share in it a more penetrating view of the causes which have led to it. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european parliament is given the opportunity to express its views on the matter.
in writing. - this topic has its pros and cons and before reading the report i was rather puzzled: while employee participation in the company's profits is an incentive to work better and to feel part of the organization, it could also be an excessive responsibility for someone who does not control the entire production process and therefore cannot, for better or worse, be held responsible for the overall result. let me put it this way: i do not think the worker can be held responsible for the success or failure of the sale of the product he helped to assemble. i also think that the title of the report is rather ideologized: the participation in profits must involve risk-taking and therefore also participation in losses. i must say, however, that my group has been able to put forward the right amendments and the report has changed towards being acceptable to my views.
in writing. - i believe that the financial participation of employees in the profits of a company is an opportunity and a tool that should be further explored and used. it is undeniable that such a measure would make employees more responsible, and they would feel more involved in the dynamics of the company's development. i believe that the old paradigm, that of the opposition between labour and capital, is now considered obsolete, both by history and by economic evolution: the reality is now very different, and the challenges are different. the fate of workers and firms is often already tied in two ways, and economic difficulties and the crisis strike both sides. i think that closer participation and cooperation could be useful, especially in certain areas. i believe that every worker should be proud to participate directly in the fate of a company, that is to say, to share fully in its developments. if they are positive, the worker will also be rewarded, while if they are negative he may perhaps be able to understand better the difficult situation in which a firm may find itself. this does not mean that we are all owners and workers. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr bennion's report on the financial participation of employees in the profits of the firm because i believe that the participation of employees in the decision-making process encourages small and mediumsized enterprises and guarantees jobs. in a european union seeking smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, encouraging the financial participation of employees means creating the basis for more lasting relationships within the company itself, ensuring its integrity and boosting its revenues and investments, in essence ensuring stability and smart growth.
in writing. − the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth stresses the need for 'inclusive growth' that, among other things, promotes citizens' empowerment through employment, investment in skills, the fight against poverty and the modernisation of labour markets and social protection. employee financial participation (evp) provides a tangible means of developing these issues by involving workers more closely in the decision-making process of the companies in which they work, helping to strengthen good governance and guaranteeing a share of the financial benefits of a successful enterprise. i agree with what has been discussed and presented in this house.
in writing. − i believe that the financial participation of employees in the profits of a company is an essential tool of the strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, involving workers in the decision-making process of the companies in which they work, helping to strengthen good governance. such involvement brings economic benefits to workers, but also training opportunities and a long-term approach to one's job, as such involvement develops a stronger mutual relationship between employee and employer. this is particularly true for smes, where employees may wish to invest in shares of the company, capitalizing on its expansion, while providing greater stability and certainty for the company and its related income. unfortunately europe is still lagging behind on this issue, but i agree that action at union level can be affected by disparities at national level, but i believe that the eu can at least provide some general guidelines and orientations that will facilitate national decision-making. finally, i support the proposal to launch a study on methods of promoting financial participation by employees of companies operating at transnational level, in order to make the european market truly single in this respect too.
in writing. - mr bennion's report aims to highlight the positive role that employee financial participation schemes can play in developing the participation of employees in the governance and financial success of the companies in which they work. in particular, the report highlights a number of observations and recommendations on worker financial participation which can help to define a voluntary framework for advising enterprises, employees, social partners and national authorities on how best to develop and facilitate such participation.
mr president, the crisis that has hit europe in recent years has particularly affected certain categories of citizens who are absolutely vulnerable, such as the unemployed, the disabled, single-parent families and, above all, young people. it also made it clear that flexibility in working life was not always accompanied by the right protections, and that is why we have ended up with a social protection system that is often anchored in old logics and patterns, and which has ended up protecting only employees and has given no guarantee to atypical workers and selfemployed workers. i therefore strongly support this resolution and hope that the commission will work to ensure that the member states reform their social protection systems, with social and pension rights and protection for the so-called 'unsecured'.
in writing. − i strongly support this report because i believe that all workers, including the self-employed, should have access to social security, and because the eu institutions need to take steps to combat all forms of discrimination in the labour market. most importantly, with this text we call once again on the member states to guarantee adequate social security for the most vulnerable groups, even in times of crisis.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, together with my colleagues from the epp group, because i believe that societies need effective social protection to face the challenges of globalisation and adapt to change. in particular, social insurance, which depends on work, is a key element of social security systems, but is not yet guaranteed to all residents.
in writing. - while sharing the report in its more general objectives and in the desire to prevent exploitation and unfair competition, the text calls for the introduction of a minimum income: i therefore decided to abstain.
in writing. − as a result of the crisis, the production structure of the countries most affected is undergoing a profound transformation: the report rightly denounces the need to adapt our social security systems to the new forms of work. the system of social protection, which was conceived in the light of a fordist model, has now entered a crisis and is threatening to exclude whole generations. it is no secret that many new selfemployed people are more of a necessity (often following the loss of a previous employed job) than a free decision: according to unioncamere, some 50,000 new italian entrepreneurs would have taken this path in 2012. the widespread abuse of selfemployment and precarious work institutions in several member states is also alarming, as is well summarized in points (d), (f), (j) and (k). the call to the member states, within the framework of the union's powers of coordination, to review social security systems, adapting them to the new structures and new ways of exercising selfemployment, represents an investment in preventing the explosion of an unprecedented social crisis, as well as a moral and civil imperative. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution which clearly reaffirms the importance of ensuring a social protection system for all, including the selfemployed. the difficult economic situation has already had a negative impact on the social services provided, with a reduction, or at least the risk of reduction, of the funds made available for this purpose. the call is therefore primarily for member states to do more to implement structural reforms and measures to create jobs, while recognising that rights can be fully guaranteed when the economy is functioning and producing wealth. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the problem of unemployment, and it is therefore necessary to adopt integrated strategies and at the same time to make greater efforts to combat undeclared work, which is a real scourge for the economies of certain countries.
in writing. − social security for workers is one of the most important elements of the european social model. the transformation of welfare systems must be able to guarantee social rights on the one hand and adapt them to the changed socioeconomic conditions in europe on the other. in particular, selfemployment (whether parttime or not) is the most important area to work on because of the lack of adequate consideration in many national laws for the specific characteristics and special needs of the selfemployed. in my region, veneto, the very large number of micro and small enterprises has given me a thorough insight into the limits of a system of protection for workers such as the italian one, which is unable to take account of the specific characteristics of selfemployed workers. that is why the resolution is moving in the right direction.
in writing. − this own-initiative report recalls that social protection is at the heart of the european social model and that its main function is to promote social inclusion and social justice and to ensure a high level of education and healthcare for all. it also establishes a european definition of selfemployment and the abuses associated with it. i share the objectives set by the flagship initiative of the europe 2020 strategy entitled 'an agenda for new skills and jobs', which recognises self-employment as an important factor in job creation and requires member states to eliminate measures that discourage its development. for this reason i voted in favour of the measure to extend social protection to selfemployed workers who do not have adequate social protection, especially in the case of sick leave entitlements.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mrs blinkevičiūtė on the social protection of workers. social protection is at the heart of the european social model and its main function is to promote inclusion and social justice, protect incomes and ensure high quality education and healthcare for all. the text particularly welcomes the recognition of the importance of selfemployment in job creation and calls on the member states to eliminate all measures which discourage its development.
in writing. - mr president, the next programming period will be crucial for the eu. we must learn from past mistakes. it is clear that national, local and regional budgets are under increasing pressure in the current economic climate. as a result, cohesion policy funding is becoming increasingly important for many member states, regions and local communities. it is essential to ensure a more efficient use of resources: the partnership agreements and operational programmes must be used in accordance with the real needs of the territories and the people. it is therefore essential that new projects can be started as soon as possible: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives, such as the youth guarantee, to set an example. moreover, local authorities cannot be left alone: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. i found the vaughan report unclear in many of its passages and therefore decided not to support it with my vote.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this own-initiative report which assesses the data provided by member states to assess their preparedness for the new programming period 2014-2020. in view of the scarcity of national and regional resources, it is important to ensure the best use of the cohesion funds, avoiding dispersion and waste. it is not to be overlooked that the regions which have maintained good relations with their member states throughout the preparation and implementation of cohesion policy are those which have been able to ensure that their interests and needs are met through the use of funds. therefore, especially at this stage, it is essential to pay the utmost attention to the issue of governance and partnership and to the programmes that the states will have to conclude with the european commission.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the vaughan report because i believe that dialogue between the member states and the regions must be intensified. priorities are essential to ensure that funding is targeted to specific objectives. i believe that cohesion policy funding is an increasingly important resource for member states and regions, given the chronic budgetary constraints, and that is why parliament has always been in favour of greater involvement of these actors in the 2014-2020 negotiations. it is also important that this assembly undertake an analysis of the previous 2007-2013 programming to develop new strategies, also highlighting that not all states are on an equal footing, due to the new administrative provisions and thematic objectives. i am convinced that this system will finally put the member states and regions at the forefront of the implementation of the new cohesion policy and will enable them to maximise the leverage of this huge investment package.
in writing. − the new programming period for cohesion policy follows the guideline of the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020. in most member states, the regions have competence in cohesion policy matters and must therefore adopt new operational programmes as soon as possible in order to benefit from union funds. the resolution calls on the member states to support partnership agreements to ensure innovation and regional integration, but above all it stresses the importance of launching new regional programming for 2014-2020 as soon as possible.
in writing. - in a climate of economic crisis such as that of recent years, cohesion policy plays a very important role for many european regions. although the worst is over, the right incentives for recovery must now be given to the regions most in need, and i therefore agree with the rapporteur that the european structural and investment funds should be allocated to projects as soon as possible in early 2014. it is true that member states are at different stages of the preparation process, but for some the delay is mainly due to changes they are making to their preparations compared to the previous funding phase, in order to target them more selectively and efficiently, facilitating innovative, smart and sustainable growth. however, i agree with the rapporteur that the member states lagging behind should reach agreement as soon as possible on their partnership agreements and operational programmes so that these programmes can be launched as early as possible in 2014 and lead to concrete results in the shortest possible time.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because the green paper 'a european strategy on plastic waste in the environment' has launched a broad reflection on possible responses to the public policy challenges posed by plastic waste, given the widespread use of this material. it also highlighted how better management of plastic waste is a challenge that can also be an opportunity to help achieve the goals of the roadmap to a resource efficient europe, as well as helping to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and imports of raw materials and fossil fuels. finally, specific measures for plastic recycling can also benefit competitiveness and create economic opportunities and jobs. i have recently put a question to that effect.
in writing. the plastics industry in europe generates an annual turnover of around eur 300 billion and employs around 1.54 million people. however, the data on waste generated are not yet consolidated. in the absence of reliable data on the production, collection, sorting, recycling, recovery and disposal of plastics, it is difficult to develop a targeted and effective policy, in particular as regards actions against illegal waste streams. it is clear that the environmental impact of plastic is still underestimated. i agree with the rapporteur that funding research and development into better recycling, collection and sorting techniques, particularly with regard to reuse and sustainability, will give impetus to the implementation of more advanced and effective waste management systems. in my view, an important step towards regulatory harmonisation of waste streams should be the creation of specific european legislation on plastic waste, with related objectives, and the strict implementation of the current rules. in the context of this framework, it would also be essential to raise awareness among citizens through information campaigns on the ground, aimed at promoting public awareness, such as the european day for plastic waste.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report which takes an in-depth look at the problems and strategies for dealing virtuously with the disposal of plastic waste in the environment. the first is the need to draw up specific and harmonised eu-wide rules on the disposal, reduction and, above all, recycling of such waste. secondly, setting ambitious targets for recycling and recyclability of waste. finally, a different assessment of plastics, which should no longer be regarded as 'waste to be disposed of' but as a factor of economic growth. the report adopted calls in concrete terms for a drastic reduction (and where possible, their complete elimination) of the most dangerous plastics and single-use bags; i believe that this objective should be given greater prominence in protected areas, national parks and all environmentally vulnerable areas. we will soon be able to support the recent proposal for a revision of the packaging directive, which will oblige member states to reduce the use of the most environmentally harmful plastic bags. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council on the basis of a proposal from the commission.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution on an important sector, plastic waste, which represents a turnover of 300 billion a year and 1.5 million workers, which is a considerable figure for the european market. it is important to set reasonable and achievable targets that make a realistic contribution to reducing plastic waste and thus the impact on the environment. i agree that new targets should be set for packaging, which already accounts for 40% of waste. another aspect that deserves attention is the need for industry to make greater efforts to make product information more transparent, indicating whether it is recyclable, compostable, biodegradable or recoverable plastic, perhaps also through the use of information and awareness campaigns. in this area too, stimulating better consumer behaviour is essential to achieving ambitious objectives of the common good.
in writing. - let's ask ourselves if we're doing the right thing: did we pick the right dumpster? or if, overthinking, we threw the trash in the wrong bin? it is a small effort, a mental sacrifice which costs us nothing but means a great deal at european level. it means jobs, it means savings, it means less pollution. we must start from civic education to build a common path to achieve the goals which this report shows are still far off. plastic is too valuable a resource to end up in landfills or simply be burned. let us make it clear to the european citizens: awareness can only be achieved through effective information campaigns. at the same time we are asking industry to cooperate in the transparency of information, without, however, undermining their work with bureaucratically perfect labels that are unreadable to any ordinary person. only by making life easier for citizens can certain results be achieved.
in writing. - the environmental impact of plastics is a problem that is still underestimated. at present, there is no specific eu legislation that provides for the efficient recycling of certain types of plastics in a coherent and shared manner. we are making progress in the sustainable economy and it is through my vote in favour that i intend to join my colleague in the search for better recycling techniques. i believe that this precious commodity, rather than end up in the incineration process or in landfills, should be incorporated into a mechanical recycling system consisting of work to produce new objects.
in writing. - it is undeniable that plastic, as waste, is a major problem to be tackled: we are still a long way from optimal recycling and reuse, the only way to ensure less use of landfills and incinerators. i am of course in favour of supporting the recovery and recycling of plastics and this should also be achieved through facilities and incentives, which can also contribute to a general change in the mentality of waste management. i do not believe in the drastic measures, the taliban-style, to be clear, which often creep into the corridors of these buildings: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of life in the community. i am in favour of maximum waste sorting, because i believe there can be an economic advantage as well as an environmental one: however, the benefits so far have been very modest, especially compared to the initial forecasts. we must therefore be honest and direct with the citizens, and tell them what their final economic benefit is, in addition to the environmental benefit which should concern us all.
in writing. − reducing plastic waste in the environment is one of the eu's 2020 environmental protection targets. the existing legislation needs to be adapted to facilitate the use of new recycling methods and member states should be encouraged to raise awareness among citizens of the need for separate waste collection. the 2020 target is to reduce plastic waste by 75%, reusing it in the best way, avoiding waste and limiting pollution.
in writing. − continue the path of gradually reducing the most dangerous plastics, by definitively banning certain types of plastic bags by 2020. the european union must act as soon as possible to make up for the lack of specific community legislation on plastic waste.
in writing. the report highlights that eu law on plastic waste must primarily aim at reducing the release of non-biodegradable plastics into the environment. it is essential to continue investing in research, both public and private, and horizon 2020 can "provide opportunities to address this important societal need and bring considerable benefits to both the environment and citizens, from the creation of new economic activities to the reduction of marine litter and health risks". it also notes that the correct implementation of eu waste legislation could save €72 billion a year, increase the eu's annual turnover in waste management and recycling by €42 billion and create over 400 000 jobs by 2020. i share the reasoning behind the document and voted in favour, convinced that the protection and respect of the environment are ambitious objectives for europe and can in reality be translated into an opportunity for economic recovery for europe and for the competitiveness of companies which invest, with adequate strategic planning, in the prevention, reuse, recycling and recovery of waste.
in writing. - i have decided to vote against this report because the demands on the commission seem too stringent and, in particular, it provides for the phasing out of certain types of plastics and products and for their disposal in landfills.
in writing. - i am in favour of this report, which aims first and foremost to reduce plastic waste and promote its recycling. considering that the plastics sector in europe employs around 1.6 million people, it is clear that there is a need for member states to have transitional periods and then to achieve ambitious and stable targets for recycled plastics free of hazardous additives. in addition, this new eco-sustainable policy could create some 162 000 jobs in the eu if the recycling rate is increased to 70% by 2020. these changes will help to facilitate the transition to a sustainable economy.
in writing. − the plastics industry represents a significant share of the european market, employing more than 1.5 million people, with an annual turnover of eur 300 billion. however, the pollution it causes has enormous economic, environmental and health costs for member states and european citizens. i share the focus on the need to adapt european standards to the obligations of the waste framework directive by adopting the concept of a circular economy for plastics, an action line that would help achieve the 2020 strategy targets of a 75% recycled plastic share. greater transparency (e.g. through labelling) for the benefit of consumers is also essential, but this should not, in my view, place an additional economic burden on businesses. i also share the idea that local authorities have the primary responsibility to run awareness campaigns to encourage a sustainable plastic waste economy, as this is the level of governance at which disposal is managed. finally, the problem of international traffic causes a number of negative externalities which can only be eliminated by ensuring clear rules on controls of international flows.
in writing. − regional quality labels can be an important lever for the growth and development of the european agri-food sector. i believe, as the resolution also states, that this instrument can be useful in promoting all the local economies of excellence, even beyond the agri-food sector. by reasoning from a 'network' perspective and promoting 'value chains', regional quality brands can be a very effective vehicle for territorial marketing for the revival of all productive sectors, including tourism.
in writing. - we have approved this report for the establishment of a territorial quality label to enable rural areas to be better protected and, above all, better promoted in the context of an even more globalised economy. such a mark presupposes first of all an adequate definition of the territorial reality and would have a control function in order to facilitate the organisation and placing on the market of local products. what we voted for is above all an appeal to the european union to give itself this kind of label to support and protect our quality production, particularly in the agri-food sector.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the andrieu report which analyses the establishment of a 'regional brand' aimed at enhancing homogeneous territories, with particular reference to disadvantaged areas. i think that the text is very balanced and that the proposals contained in it will be of great benefit to the development of future agricultural plans for our territories.
in writing. - i certainly welcome the resolution in question, which calls for the european union to have a quality label of territorial excellence, to be applied transversally to all products, goods and services in a rural area. the territorial marks of excellence can contribute to the development of territorial economies by coordinating sets of food and non-food goods, promoting quality services that are inextricably linked to each other and rooted in the unique historical, cultural and anthropological heritage of each territory. rural areas need to be able to look at globalisation not as a threat of disintegration but as an opportunity for development: to do this, we must provide them with all the tools best suited to their promotion and conservation, the transmission of their traditions, history, identity and specific characteristics which, as such, can promote their competitiveness and attractiveness in a global context. i hope that the adoption of this resolution will encourage the european commission to draw up as soon as possible a proposal for the establishment of a regional quality label, without forgetting the potential tourist vehicle in which this label can be invested, promoting tourism which is geared to respecting and preserving local cultures and is socially and environmentally sustainable.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal because it has the advantage of not only dealing with the agricultural sector but also of raising the question of rural development as a whole. the territorial quality label is intended to be an "umbrella label" that recognises the efforts of economic operators not only in the productive sectors but also in the service sector, in order to move away from a sectoral approach to development that segments economic actors, and instead to aim at an intersectoral enhancement capable of providing added value and employment opportunities. this is an important step towards boosting rural economies. in fact, territorial trade marks can contribute to the development of territorial economies by basing the concept of quality on baskets of quality goods and services linked to each other, anchored to the specificities of each territory and its historical, cultural and geographical heritage. these baskets of goods and services will be able to create territorial rents and to offer new economic opportunities on local and international markets.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution in which parliament stresses the importance of regional quality labels, which can contribute to the development of local economies and represent an important lever in a difficult time like the one we are living through. i agree with the idea of supporting protected designations of origin (pdo) and protected geographical indications (pgi), because they allow joint action by producers and other interested parties while promoting the local territory and markets.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of the report because i believe it is important that regional policy should also be geared to rural areas, so as to support innovative and structural projects. the territorial excellence labels together with the large-scale rural development programmes make it possible to have a really positive impact on employment rates and on the competitiveness of farms in the most 'depressed' rural areas, reducing the risk of unemployment or extreme poverty in the countryside.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by my colleague on the creation of a european quality label, because i believe that this project can make an important contribution to the protection of small rural areas and the quality of their products. a brand that refers to territorial areas would ensure, on the one hand, greater economic development for regions that focus on the quality of products and, on the other, would act as an incentive for the revival of production. this eliminates the prerequisites for the use of relocation, the consequences of which would affect production and involve a reduction in jobs. it will be essential for companies to cooperate with each other, to grow together and develop their potential, to strengthen their image and territorial identity. new governance strategies aimed at developing the regional brand through collective reorganisation and the creation of partnerships between companies and institutions would also be useful, thus promoting the maximum sharing of projects that enhance the value of local products. the creation of the regional quality label will serve the interests of those who operate within the territorial realities, will facilitate the introduction of quality products into the european market and will undoubtedly highlight the differences in quality and origin.
in writing. - although this is a simple own-initiative report, i believe that the idea of having a regional quality label, which should serve as a guarantee of the excellence of a territory, should be supported. it is originally intended for agriculture, and with particular reference to areas, such as mountainous areas, which are commonly referred to as 'disadvantaged'; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected, and that the environment is protected in a way that is compatible with the common market. i believe that a regional brand, which is not limited to the agricultural sector but also involves the craft and tourism dimension, for example, can be a useful tool for enhancing and making a territory known, highlighting the peculiarities of an area. as i said, we're still in the embryonic stage, but i think it's really worth investing in this.
in writing. − the development of regional economies and new opportunities on local and international markets also depend strongly on the use of quality labels in the different regional territories. the development, promotion and safeguarding of a trademark is therefore a genuine project in the interests of a region, since wealth and development may depend on it. the text just voted shows the interest in promoting new development models and a better identification of territorialised agri-food systems.
in writing. - i have decided to vote in favour of the report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr andrieu's report, which calls for more dynamic forms of participatory management to implement integrated territorial development projects based on partnerships and joint synergies involving both public and private actors. in particular, the text highlights the important role that regional brands can play in promoting the quality of goods and services specific to each territory, contributing to the development of territorial economies and new opportunities on local and international markets.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive to the council. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are finally about to adopt one of the most important and complex legislative packages of this parliament. i would therefore like to express my warmest congratulations to all those involved and, in particular, to the rapporteurs and friends marc tarabella and philippe juvin. i think that the right balance has been struck between the need to simplify procedures and the need to ensure a high level of legal certainty. the objective of creating a new legal institution, the concession system, which will introduce clear rules in the sector, boosting its competitiveness and increasing its transparency, has been achieved. in the area of procurement, key aspects have been clarified to stimulate the sustainability of public procurement, for example through clearer provisions for the identification and suppression of abnormally low tenders. it is now up to the commission, mr barnier, to ensure that the directives are correctly transposed, and i hope that this will be done swiftly and uniformly.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive to the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too believe that this is one of the most important measures taken by this parliament after two years of negotiations involving mr baldassarri and the rapporteurs, and i too intend to give an opinion on it in the house. we have modernised the governance framework on these issues - i think that is an important fact - and if public works - commissioner barnier will know this better than we do - absorb 19 per cent of gdp for goods, services, works, etc., it means that this is a lever for growth that we must know how to use intelligently and so the commission is rightly delegated. we have taken a step forward in terms of transparency, because we are guaranteeing a better service at a lower cost, and i believe that the choice of the most economically advantageous offer is certainly a rationalization of the system. i would conclude by saying that the most important aspect is greater protection for small and mediumsized enterprises, which is really important at european level.
the s&d group is therefore calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment. the work has been very demanding and complex but necessary negotiations have been carried out to regulate properly the concession sector, one of the most important areas of economic activity in which the single market has yet to take hold, thanks also to the work carried out by mr juvin. this proposal immediately aroused controversial reactions upon its publication. there has been a lot of criticism, motivated by fear of possible outsourcing and privatisation. we have worked to ensure that this directive does not become a tool for privatisation or forced outsourcing. the text we shall be voting on tomorrow is a simplified and balanced text, one which will ensure legal certainty, transparency and avoidance of possible forms of abuse. the new rules will also ensure effective market access for all economic operators, especially smes. in doing so, however, the autonomy of the public authorities is not in any way affected. the public administrations remain free to decide whether and how to make substantial use of the concession instrument. but there have been other regulatory advances. this instrument includes important clauses on social, environmental and subcontracting matters. this was made possible by the work carried out jointly with the other important instrument, the public procurement directive, together with my colleague marc tarabella. there is no doubt or room for interpretation in this respect: economic operators awarded a concession will have to comply with all social and environmental obligations under european legislation and collective bargaining. finally, a last point, which should not be underestimated, concerns the so-called protection of services of general economic interest. these are services which, by their very nature, play a fundamental role in promoting territorial cohesion. national authorities remain free to define these services and how they should be organised and financed, and in this context the exclusion of the water sector from the scope has been successful. in the end, these are important and fundamental advances. i believe that we must work in this direction and i hope that the european commission will make a commitment to implement fully what comes out of this parliament.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank you for your goodwill, but i think these are just words. we have to remember the late payment directive: the public authorities should pay the companies and artisans within 30 days. in italy it hardly ever happens; i think that this is yet another document, after years and years of work, which justifies the salaries and jobs of a few hundred european bureaucrats, who are making life difficult for companies, workers and employers. european competitions are complicated. you could have raised the threshold to help the zero mile, to help local businesses. i don't know if anyone in brussels has noticed, but there is a crisis. in italy, youth unemployment is at its highest level in 40 years, at over 40 percent. but you didn 't . it is right that companies from all over the world come to work in italy, without respect for human rights, the environment and working conditions, except with vague hints. no limit to subcontracting: so in the name of the free market, of freedom for all, of profit and gain, organized crime will be able to continue to make, buy, invest. more could and should have been done. no real obstacle to the invasion of goods and services from countries that do not meet our quality standards and that exploit workers. i have heard, in this debate, too, the words 'consumers', 'customers' and 'market'. we are men and women; i'm not a consumer, a customer, or a man of time. we are men and women who are thinking of another europe, a europe based on work, on respect and on the work of local businesses, on history, culture, tradition and identities, which do not count for much in this house but which i think will count for much more after the elections on 25 may. (the speaker agrees to answer a question with a blue card under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure).
answer to a blue-card question. mr president, i'm not blaming you. there are colleagues on the left who would sue for statements of this kind. he's on board. there is disagreement, there is consensus, so i am not offended, also because i know that the president on many points thought as i did, he thought as the northern league. he would have liked to have achieved more, to have done more to protect businesses and the environment. i know, as he knows, that the final document doesn't bring home a third of what he and i would have wanted. so i 'm not mad . i'll leave you to your own opinions. i am giving nothing to small and mediumsized enterprises in lombardy and italy, because the result, from my point of view, is nothing. so i thank him for the incentive to be more present, i take it from that perspective. i would have done so very gladly if i had not been sure from the outset that we would have come to nothing or almost nothing in the name of the market. and since i know that he and i both think that europe could be something different, i am not offended and i send him a hug.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i do not think we should have even discussed concessions in this house today, because these are matters which should be handled at national level, in full respect of the principle of subsidiarity. the european markets are too different to be uniformly represented by the other. you risk situations that can do a lot of damage: in fact, the damage in some parts has already been done to certain specific sectors in different countries. our german friends have done well, for example, in excluding their waters from european concessions, while our port operators rightly complain about the unequal treatment of them compared with the rental system in force in northern europe. there are associations of categories which are likely to pay more than others, and, strangely enough, this always and only applies to certain countries. commissioner barnier, you know what i mean. i am referring to the difficult situation of italian beach-goers affected by the services directive. perhaps this concession could be a useful opportunity to discuss and try to solve the problem once and for all. but i see that europe too has a double standard: always obviously to the advantage of someone more important than others.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the solution we shall reach tomorrow on public procurement and concessions is, in my view, a high-level solution of particular quality. in the global market, comparison with others is made in two ways: there is the anti-historical, which is suggested repeatedly, of introducing new customs duties, of lifting borders, and there is the modern and effective one of accepting the challenge, focusing on the quality, transparency and legality of the actions that are promoted. i believe that some of the innovations contained in the text we are voting on are important precisely because they are consistent with this assumption. we must make the most of an extraordinary lever for economic growth, namely public procurement. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i would like to say that i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. so we have had enough of the maximum reduction, but we are now going to the binding rule of competitive prices, where quality and price are kept together, where the new element is not to reduce the rights of individuals, social protection, because then the price will be low enough, but to maintain the rights, collective agreements and protections of working people, of those citizens who are at the same time producers and consumers by virtue of the quality of what they do. this is the way to go. this solution may indicate a model of high competition, which will provide an important reference point for others and will also make europe a reference point in the process of globalisation.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i share the positive mood and approval that characterizes this debate this afternoon for three reasons. firstly, i think that the decision that the contracting authority decides in the case of a public tender whether it wants to hand over a building or a contract as a whole or to divide it into lots and works is a correct one. i think and hope that this basic attitude will finally be accepted in my own member state, italy, where for years everything has been done to prevent the division of construction works and contracts in general into lots. secondly, i believe that a better position for subcontractors is necessary and that this directive will guarantee it. thirdly, i am pleased that life-cycle cost has now been included as a criterion in the tendering process. this also makes local circuits easier than before. let me say a word about the concession directive: i am glad that it has been clarified once and for all what a concession is and that it has been clarified that something which is very important in the country from which i come, i.e. ski lifts and ski lift compressors, does not fall within the scope of the concession. i'm very grateful for that.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, thank you to mr tarabella, mr panzeri and mr juvin for their excellent work. i find that in the legislative package the directive on the concession institute is very important for the defence of the concept of public utility and public service in procurement, with clearer rules excluding in-house procurement and public-private cooperation, thus also preventing judgments of the court of justice as has happened in the past. private participation is also allowed, provided that at least eighty percent is provided to the public controlling authority and this is another step towards clarity and transparency. i am also very convinced that it was useful to have simplified the rules for cultural, social and public health contracts, and to have emphasized and stressed the principle of evaluating the most advantageous offers, not only in economic terms but with equal quality and social and environmental clauses. i hope that this will be appreciated by the citizens, both italian and lombard, despite what mr salvini says.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive to the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i shall not dwell on the content of the amendments, which will be substantially amended during the trilogues. i would like to draw attention to a political point. the opponents of this proposal, both among the member states and among some colleagues in parliament, consider that the provisions of this regulation are protectionist and contrary to international free trade agreements. i do not know, frankly, to which text these critical voices are referring. in view of the serious asymmetry and disparity in access to their respective markets, the regulation gives the commission the possibility of excluding tenders with a significant foreign share if the third country applies restrictive measures in its own procurement market. the aim of this regulation is therefore only to strengthen the european union's negotiating power at international level. so if some states prefer to put their privileged relations with other third countries before the interests of the internal market, let them do so, but do not blame the european union.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am very surprised that the european union wants to defend its own interests. it seems to me to be a complete novelty, an event to be emphasized! in all trade agreements we tend to pull the plug, thinking more of our partners than of ourselves. for once we are hearing about reciprocity, a simple but fundamental word for all kinds of relations, including, of course, commercial ones. the data are clear and irrefutable and show that there is a huge imbalance in the opening of the procurement markets between the european union and its main competitors, who rightly defend their companies in internal tenders. so we have two possible paths: we either go along with it, giving our companies a de facto preference, or we ask them to open up more. i am in favour of the first hypothesis, because i fear that the big companies in northern europe will always be the only ones to benefit from greater openness, whereas in fact we are already facing heavy unfair external competition in the field of internal public procurement.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 15 january 2014 at 12.00 noon. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the report by julie girling, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive amending council directive 2001/110/ec on honey (com (2012) 0530 - c7-0304/2012 - 2012/0260 (cod)) (a7-0440/2013).
member of the commission. − mr president, the commission proposal on community statistics relating to the trading of goods between member states – intrastat – has a number of important objectives. firstly, the legislative proposal aims to align an existing intrastat regulation with the new institutional context after the lisbon treaty. secondly, the commission is proposing to streamline the structure of the european statistical system by replacing the current reference to the committee for trading of goods between member states, the intrastat committee. furthermore, the commission is proposing to clarify the definition of statistical value. the current definition of this data element in intra-eu trade statistics will be aligned with that in the extra-eu trade statistics. it is also proposed to collect information on the movement of certain non-community goods through the intrastat system. this would ensure the quality and coverage of intra-eu trade statistics. finally, this proposal explicitly enables the voluntary exchange of confidential data between member states’ national statistical authorities. this will improve the data quality and the efficiency of the system of intra-eu trade statistics. it will also serve the permanent need to improve the quality of data and increase the efficiency of the system. it should be noted that the exchanged data shall be used solely for the statistical needs outlined in the proposal. it is a matter of principle that respondents continue to trust the european statistical system. therefore, given the importance of the proposal, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr martin, and the members of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, for their interest in it and the support provided so far. the commission broadly welcomes the draft report and its amendments, in particular those improving or clarifying the proposal and ensuring trust in the european statistical system. however, i should also note that a few of the proposed amendments require further elaboration and discussion. as an example, i could mention the time limitation for voluntary data exchange or free-of-charge data transmission, but i am confident that these issues can be successfully addressed during the trilogues. i am therefore looking forward to receiving your support today for the commission proposal. this would allow us to proceed with further steps and enter into interinstitutional discussions.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to take this opportunity to thank mr martin and all the shadow rapporteurs for the scientific discourse they have given on the problem of new statistics at european level, between the member states. this is a purely technical report, it is not a political report, and i am opposed to making it political and to introducing a debate which would certainly take us off the subject. in essence, commissioner šemeta has said very well: the commission has reviewed the proposed regulation on community statistics of trade in goods between the countries of the european union: a new pyramid structure - the sse - which will replace the old infrastat structure. once this report has been launched, the commission will be able to adopt delegated and implementing acts. and this is what we've been working on: i think that this is a very important point, in the sense that we believe that they can no longer impose costs on governments for this new structure and i believe that this has been transposed, thus ensuring the lowest possible cost for the national authorities. the other amendments which have been tabled and also accepted concern the structure of the statistical system and a better definition of statistical value. i agree with you, commissioner šemeta, partly because there are quantitative and qualitative values and methods in statistics and the absolute value must be all-encompassing, otherwise we risk using different languages between the member states. so i think that all this has been done with a view to improving the quality of european statistics in relation to trade in goods, avoiding excessive and unnecessary trickery which would be a burden on member states and others. one last point, mr president, on the exchange of confidential data: we are very cautious, because we risk creating problems which are not on the agenda, at least not in this report.
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, honourable members, i would like to express my gratitude and thanks for the very constructive work done here in the european parliament in the negotiations with the council. i think this is a good proposal. of course, there is always the question of whether we should do something like this or leave it to the member states. however, given the pan-european nature of road transport and the extreme dynamism of the sector, some harmonised rules are necessary. we also have to ensure safety on the roads, and the tachograph, which was introduced a long time ago, is an important tool for ensuring that the rules on driving time, rest times and other parameters are observed. the proposal for this further step – to modernise the tachograph and make procedures easier and more efficient – is a good one, and i would once more like to thank all those involved in it for their constructive work.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking the itre committee, and in particular mr bütikofer, for the important work they have done in recent months on industrial policy and for the support which the text before parliament gives to the european commission's efforts to bring about a new, modern, competitive, less polluting and high-quality industrial policy for the whole of the european union. of course, there's a lot to do. the commission has set a target of 20% of gross domestic product by 2020 coming from manufacturing. it is certainly an ambitious objective and i am glad that parliament is supporting us in this strong action to give europe a political vision for its exit from the crisis, based not only on reducing public debt and consolidating accounts but also on strong support for the real economy, industry, small and mediumsized enterprises and the internal market. i am pleased that the text is in line with the european commission's choices: the commission's proposal is in line with the commission's position on innovation, market access, access to finance, training and many of the suggestions coming from parliament. of course, this document is also a strong signal to the next council where - i agree with mr bütikofer - we must not only talk about industrial policy linked to energy costs, the shale gas issue or climate change objectives. of course, industrial policy must be seen as a whole, but it cannot be limited to these points. that is why next week the european commission will present a series of documents approved by the college, one of which will be devoted exclusively to industrial policy. there will be the climate change document, which has been in the papers for so long, a document on energy policy, another on shale gas, but there will also be a document devoted solely to industrial policy. we cannot fight unemployment if we do not believe in industry, if we do not believe in small and mediumsized enterprises, if we do not work for the development of the internal market. the recognition of the european industrial base is therefore essential if we are to emerge from the crisis. i am sorry that the council representative is not here today, but we have received certain assurances from the greek presidency, and in particular from the responsible minister, who is our former colleague, mr hatzidakis, that during his term much will be done to support industrial policy. the same assurance was given to us by the italian presidency, so much so that the prime minister, in several speeches, insisted on the objective of 20 per cent of gross domestic product by 2020. i am glad that parliament also believes in the recovery of industry for a sustainable europe. the rapporteur also raises the question of southern europe, calling for a multi-regional approach to boost sustainable growth in economies in contraction and those with industrial bases exposed to significant risks and high levels of unemployment, particularly youth unemployment. let us now turn to another important subject, one of which is to give concrete answers to parliament's interesting proposal: i would like to inform you of a series of initiatives which have already been very successful in portugal and greece and which i intend to continue in the coming months. as the president knows, the european commission is organising growth missions around the world, in other words to internationalise our businesses. the last one was in myanmar, thailand and vietnam. we are now working to launch growth missions also within the european union, to give a strong message of solidarity to countries where there is high youth unemployment. as i said, we've been to greece and portugal; on february 18th, we will be in belgium, in wallonia; we are going to be in greece again on 10 march and on 3 and 4 april we will be in spain, in the regions of extremadura and andalusia, where there is very high youth unemployment. then we'll be in italy, sicily and campania at the end of march. this is therefore a concrete signal of industrial policy, an action which the european commission intends to continue to implement. the other subject which will be at the heart of the council's discussions, as well as of several initiatives which will be adopted by the commission by the end of the month, is energy efficiency, the excessive cost of energy and climate change policy. i agree with mr bütikofer: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in his 2013 state of the union address, president barroso announced further proposals for a 21st century industrial policy, noting that a strong and dynamic industrial base is essential for a strong european economy. the european council in the coming months will be a historic opportunity to put industry and industrial policy at the centre of the european strategy for growth. our contribution to the council at the end of february and the beginning of march will therefore focus on concrete measures to improve the implementation of the already consolidated industrial policy priorities. we are working to put into practice the words of president barroso; as i said, the commission will adopt the new communication on the 22nd. in general terms: firstly, we are working to promote greater integration between regional and industrial policy to support innovation and competitiveness. in concrete terms, member states will be able to use part of the funding received from the eu structural funds to support smart specialisation in situations where industry plays a significant role. secondly, we will meet the need of businesses to have access to energy, raw materials and other resources at affordable prices. on the internal market front, priority will be given to completing the infrastructure and speeding up the standardisation processes. we will also continue to strengthen the integration of industrial competitiveness aspects into other sectors and other policies, seeking to go beyond competitiveness testing and fitness checking. finally, we will work to define an economic diplomacy that looks at the whole value chain, starting with raw materials, a subject dear to mr bütikofer, and the acquisition of low-cost productive inputs, through the sale of products and the opening of markets, through trade agreements and growth missions. in short, we will focus on concrete actions to improve the implementation of our industrial policy and we will do so in all the remaining months of this commission's term.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a regulation to the council on the basis of the opinion of the committee on international trade. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, mr rapporteur, mr vice-president of the commission, i believe that among the many actions you have announced, access to international markets should be highlighted as one of the most important: without the internalisation of our industrial sector there will be no recovery. this is also the lesson of the two leading european manufacturing countries: germany and italy. germany is able to increase its exports and does so with a lot of organization, with a coherent policy, and italy, despite all the difficulties, is also seeing its exports grow. let us remember one small fact, significant in its elements: two years ago, the ikea chain moved three production lines from malaysia to italy. we can therefore compete with the markets and products of the far east, but we need to export, given the limited domestic demand capacity. this means helping our enterprises to internationalise through an anti-dumping procedure which is more easily accessible, including to our small and mediumsized enterprises. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. innovation must be defended through partnerships with universities and research institutes, so that business, industry and industrial revival can also go hand in hand with creation and creativity, through all those rules against counterfeiting, starting with the defence of geographical indications, which are a bulwark for our products.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the growth of our continent, which is still a long way off, will only be achieved if the real economy is resumed, starting with manufacturing industry, so that production capacity is increased, which must at least return to pre-crisis levels, and the level of innovation can be increased in order to be more competitive, if we do not want to assume again a competitiveness based solely on reducing labour costs, but which must instead be based on the quality of the product, because this counts in global competition and this can open up new professional, technical and quality training opportunities. but all this will not happen automatically if there is no common european industrial policy. this is why we need - and this is not an out-of-date request - a strengthening of institutional powers, sovereignty in this area, the possibility of using instruments and levers at community level, and not just at the level of individual states, to give substance and effectiveness to our choices. there's a common interest in growth: if in a given country the strengthening of industry is a common good, there is a diffusing effect on the continent. i think that reference to industrial policy for southern europe is also important in this respect. we must therefore say clearly - and we say it, but we must put it into practice - that the whole policy of economic coordination, the european semester, the architecture of governance, which has so catalysed our attention, can no longer be limited to correcting macroeconomic imbalances, but must attack the issue of concrete development, not just vague abstract and structural reforms, but precisely the issue of the concrete problems of growth and the real economy, otherwise we will have an insufficient europe, not to say harmful. that is why the rise strategy contained in this document is important, and that is why the actions undertaken by the commissioner with our support over the years are important. i think this is the moment of the challenge: we must determine how to use the instruments we have, if these are to be the objectives, the instruments which the budget has made available, from the research theme, to tap the sensitive levers identified in the report we are discussing today: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think that this is the only way in which europe can really find in industry the engine for a more developed and also more inclusive goal.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i believe that there is indeed a new wind blowing in this house today and that we can return to a kind of positive feeling and also, why not, enthusiasm, a desire to do something. if we look around us, we see that, compared with the major economic areas from the united states to russia, from the middle east to latin america, europe is in a particular state of suffering all its own, and if the cure continues to be what we have known so far, namely austerity, we will not get out of it. because a certain austerity is fine, a little austerity is fine, but austerity alone is leading us to recession, to wage restraint and wage contraction in order to attempt a desperate and impossible competition with other parts of the world, with which we are destined to fail if that is the way to go. today we're here to reverse course. we are here today to talk about the reindustrialisation of europe after the intoxication of the europe of services, after the intoxication of the europe of finance. so welcome this new beginning, this renaissance, which is a beautiful word for us italians, an extraordinary word, which reminds us of beautiful and important things. we always say we need growth and jobs, right: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. unfortunately, europe has often given the impression that it is the enemy of industry, that it is rowing against industry with too many rules, too much bureaucracy and added costs. we are now saying that we have really turned the page and, as you mentioned, there are also possibilities on the table for adequately financing this reindustrialisation, as you mentioned, ranging from the structural funds to support smart specialisation to the cosme programme, to the horizon 2020 budget, which has been mentioned by other colleagues. well, we're going to reverse course today. we're on a tight schedule, but it's not too late. so good work to all of us.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i have come to this house this morning to stress the importance of consumers in europe, but it is obvious that we cannot ignore the productive side of the economy, that is, industry. the industry in europe is in a deep crisis, partly because of the measures taken by the european union in recent years. in whole sectors, they have not been adequately protected from unfair competition, particularly from asia. i will give just two examples that i know well: textiles and steel. i come from a region, tuscany, where these activities were strongly developed with the prato textile district and the piombino steel industry. these are realities which are now suffering terribly and which are also asking europe for help, including through a policy of protecting our enterprises by introducing duties and quotas to protect our production. in the past, the opposite has been done, and we have seen the results. so we must reverse course as soon as possible, to save what we have left.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that if we are to change the course of this europe which is going down a ravine, into a chasm, we must radically change the political line, including that of the presidencies. and unfortunately, to understand how to change, you also have to understand the conflict that's going on. it is clear that on the one hand there is a europe that is moving towards globalism: the european union is not a bank, it is a bank of europe, the europe of goldman sachs. on the other hand, there is the europe of peoples, the europe of identities. it is now up to those in power and those who have the power to decide which side to take. but at any moment it can change, and that is my appeal to the greek presidency, since it has suffered more than anyone else in europe from the globalism that these eurocrats want to destroy our peoples. so i wonder if we should start having an open debate about whether the euro has worked in greece, as well as in italy, as well as in the mediterranean countries, and whether or not we should see if we can change something, even though they often say it's impossible. but why is it impossible? nothing is impossible. and i also ask about immigration policies. at a time when we have rising unemployment, i wonder how we can still absorb new immigrants, new desperate people coming into our territories. how is this possible if there is no work for our people, for europeans? and then i also ask about the enlargement policy. i do not know whether the greek people are happy to know that in the last seven years europe has paid 5 billion euros for turkey's accession to the european union. i think we will have to review a few things on enlargement and perhaps also on trade policy. how do we compete with countries like china? it's totally impossible. you can change if you want, but you have to be convinced.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the president of catalonia has written to president barroso, asking all european leaders to support catalonia's right to hold a referendum on independence. i ask you to support this request from catalonia, which cannot be ignored by greece, the cradle of freedom and democracy. i ask you: do you have clear ideas about the economic and financial future of the european union? do you realise that the eu, with its rigid austerity policy, has only imposed restrictions which have abolished the principle of subsidiarity, which is nevertheless the basis of the treaties? and then, about immigration. well, the greek presidency has a great opportunity as a country directly concerned with the flows, the often invasive, of immigrants, to regulate a distribution, especially for asylum, among all the countries. they must realise that we, the mediterranean neighbours, have this very big problem. it is also necessary to screen arrivals and to cut off the illicit trade in illegal immigrants through frontex.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would first of all like to express my best wishes to the greek presidency. unfortunately, we have entered this parliament in the midst of a financial crisis which, over time, has revealed the fragility of the public accounts of the member states. greece, which has been subjected to very harsh austerity measures in recent years, can become the symbol of the end of this serious crisis. it is no coincidence that after six years of dramatic recession, the greek economy is now expected to grow slightly by 0.6%. this is undoubtedly a timid sign, but let us not forget that until recently speculation about greece's exit from the european union, the implosion of the euro zone and the dissolution of the european union was on the agenda. the fact that we are here today to discuss the presidency's programme clearly shows that these forecasts were wrong. but now it is time to turn the page, to give priority to growth, and i am very glad that the greek government can do that. i therefore support the primary objectives set by the incoming presidency, namely growth, employment, the social economy and social cohesion. i hope that this new presidency, which will be followed by the italian presidency, will support the implementation of the european pact for growth and employment and succeed in safeguarding economic and monetary union by creating a banking union. finally, i share the desire to tackle the immigration emergency with determination. an emergency that must be shared among member states through a maritime security strategy or a flow-sharing clause. it will not be easy to reach agreement on this issue, which puts one of the key principles of the integration process to the test.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr samaras, you have a very delicate and important task at this historic moment. the greek presidency of the european semester can do important things, i believe, for the union. no one knows better than you and your country the negative effect of policies of restraint and austerity not accompanied by growth policies. if there are strong social tensions in your country today, if a large part of the greek population is experiencing difficult times, it is because a process of recovery has been imposed on it without any accompanying investment that would create jobs, starting with the youth. the rehab was a one-way street: it has brought great stress and great suffering to so many people. that is not the way to treat europe. europe needs to grow, it needs to develop, it needs to strengthen its democratic institutions in order to give a positive response to the widespread malaise, such as that which exists in your country but which does not stop there. so not all the files will be the same: i believe that you will have to be very selective and choose those who are oriented towards defining policies for development and growth in this part of the world and do not forget the rights of the people. we must stimulate growth and at the same time strengthen the history of this part of the world, which has had its identity in the welfare and rights of the people. good work, guys.
in writing. the strongly pro-european speech of greek prime minister antonis samaras seemed to me very disrespectful to the greek people and to his country which, due to the austerity of the eurocrats, has suffered 40% cuts in public salaries, has an unemployment rate that has skyrocketed to 27% and poor families are more than 20% of the population. samaras said that "failure is not falling down but not getting up again and now greece is back on its feet". he even had the courage to say that 'greece shows that europe is strong and works'. i believe that the words of the greek president are discriminatory towards his own people, who are paying for the mistakes of their former rulers and the troika, which, without any pity for the conditions of extreme poverty in which the country is living, has no qualms about adopting ever more stringent social and economic measures. the danger is that such talk, which is totally out of touch with reality, could again incite the crowd and trigger a climate of civil war, as we have seen recently in the greek squares.
in writing. − i voted in favour because the current specific programme 'prevention, preparedness and consequence management of terrorism and other security related risks' covered only the period 2007-2013. the programme as such aims at preventing, as well as preparing and protecting the population and critical infrastructure against the risks arising from terrorist attacks and other security-related risks. the internal security fund (isf-police) will take over from the isf in the period 2014-2020.
in writing. − i supported the aguilar report which analyses the abolition of the 2007-2013 programme for the 'prevention, preparedness and consequence management of terrorism and other security-related risks' and its replacement by the new 'isf-police instrument'.
in writing. - i have decided to vote in favour of this report as it aims to prevent and prepare and protect the population and critical infrastructure against the risks arising from terrorist attacks and other security-related risks. the objectives and actions financed are extremely commendable.
in writing. − the specific programme 'prevention, preparedness and consequence management of terrorism and other security related risks' covers the period 2007-2013. since the programme was adopted on a dual legal basis (ec and euratom), an ad hoc legal act is therefore necessary for its repeal.
in writing. − i support the renewal of this eu-russia agreement because of the crucial importance of scientific and technological research, and the positive track record that the eu and russia have regarding this partnership. furthermore, i believe that improvements in the science and technology sector will contribute to a broader goal of closer economic, political and cultural ties with russia.
in writing. - i consider the sartori report on the renewal of the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation between the european community and the government of the russian federation to be very well thought out and developed in all its parts, which is why i voted in favour of it.
in writing. − the considerations which led me to vote in favour of this draft decision are rather broad and concern the international relations framework, the overall role of the eu and russia and our long-term positioning in the world scientific and technological chessboard, rather than the details of the agreement itself. in fact, i believe that the eu must engage with those few actors in the world who are at comparable levels and then use this dialogue to influence other policy areas as well. i therefore agree with the objective, implied but not too much implied, of aiming at a new comprehensive agreement with russia, starting from these issues in order to be able to embrace all the other open issues that are close to our hearts. never lose sight of the bigger picture when the interest of the game is what leads to the progress of humanity, as well as to greater well-being for our citizens.
in writing. - mr president, i would first like to thank my colleague, amalia sartori, for her excellent work. the eu-russia scientific and technological cooperation agreement is of prime importance and eu-russia research and technology cooperation is a strategic element for the future. this agreement confirms over a decade of good relations with moscow and will allow the eu and russia to further intensify bilateral relations in the field of science and technology. i would also like to stress how much this agreement will facilitate mobility in the field of research and science, as well as an intensification of exchanges between russia and the union which is written in history and represents one of the best investments to be made for the future.
in writing. − science and technology are the most dynamic areas of cooperation between the european union and the russian federation. i voted in favour of the report on the renewal of the scientific and technological partnership and cooperation agreement for the next five years because i believe that such an agreement can be useful in further intensifying relations and cooperation and can encourage the sharing of joint projects, thus promoting innovation and the economic competitiveness of europe. i hope that the funding provided for the operation of this agreement will be useful in facilitating the setting up of meetings and seminars between the best european and russian experts, in order to develop important scientific projects in the coming years.
in writing. − scientific and technological cooperation between the union and the russian federation is an essential pillar of the eu-russia strategic partnership and contributes to the objectives of the modernisation partnership. i wholeheartedly support the extension of the agreement defined in 2000 and renewed in 2009 until 2019. the renewal of cooperation with russia will strengthen economic, political and, not least, cultural ties between the european union and the russian federation, to the benefit of human progress and the well-being of citizens. in this context, the effectiveness of the agreement would be further enhanced by the simplification of visa procedures, currently being negotiated with the russian federal government, facilitating research and scientific mobility, as well as strengthening economic, cultural and political ties between the eu and moscow. it should also be recalled that the renewal of the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation could serve as a stimulus to the negotiations for a new comprehensive agreement between the eu and russia, replacing the current partnership and cooperation agreement. i would also of course stress the importance of using the funds earmarked for the renewal of the agreement until 2019 in accordance with the principle of sound financial management, in an effective and efficient manner, and of allocating them to scientists and researchers.
in writing. - i did not support the gauzès report because i believe that in this period of crisis, when europe is struggling to give concrete answers to the needs of its citizens, dealing with the technical specifications of coins is not a priority.
in writing. - this report, which is purely technical in content, did not merit amendments going beyond the general intention of fighting counterfeiting. it therefore deserves to be approved, and i voted in favour of it.
in writing. − i fully support this report as asean is a major regional and global economic actor that plays an important role in promoting well-being, security, cooperation and peace in its respective regions and worldwide. the eu and asean share values and political and economic interests which should continue to be developed further. i believe that if the eu and its member states work on a common approach to asean, this will facilitate the promotion of closer ties with the entire asian region. moreover, i would like to point out the added value of establishing a formal euro-asean interparliamentary assembly.
in writing. - i share the content of the bütikofer report on the future of eu-asean relations, the regional organisation comprising brunei, indonesia, malaysia, the philippines, singapore, thailand and vietnam. developing positive relations with these countries is of fundamental importance for the near future of europe.
in writing. - in assessing the eu's international relations, two fundamental considerations cannot be ignored: the first is that you have to diversify, the second is that you have to think big. when i speak of diversification, i mean that such relationships should not be like a marriage (monogamous and eternal) but rather like a medium-long term contract, which does not exclude parallel agreements with other actors; it is crucial to recognise that the structure of our needs is such that it cannot be reduced to a fixed pair with one partner, whether it is china, whether it is asean or whether it is the united states. moreover, when i say 'thinking big' i mean being aware of our weight and the role that comes with it. we need to learn to exploit synergies, because economics is not a zero-sum game, but the result of a series of interactions from which, if we make the right moves, we can all emerge winners.
in writing. reinhard bütikofer worked on a particularly important report: i would like to thank the commissioner for his report, which has been very helpful in this respect. i would like to mention a few figures which should make us think, and which relate to myanmar, just one of the asean member states. we can consider myanmar as one of the new countries with high growth potential, as opposed to the previous 50 years of total closure. the report by mr bütikofer does not explicitly deal with the eu's relations with individual asean member states. these aspects will be addressed in a series of specific resolutions which are expected to be adopted in the framework of parliament's recommendations for the cfsp negotiations or approval procedures and related reports on the implementation of the new cfsp agreements. for the same reason, the report does not deal with bilateral relations between asean member states.
in writing. - asean is a political, economic and cultural organisation which brings together several countries in south east asia. it was originally founded in 1967 by indonesia, malaysia, the philippines, singapore and thailand, with brunei, vietnam, laos, burma and cambodia later joining. it is directly comparable, both in area and population, to the european union, with which it has had bilateral relations since its foundation. asean includes countries which have been through several internal turmoils and some are still on the path of difficult democratization and are experiencing periods of strong political instability, as is happening in thailand just these days; on the other hand, these are fast-growing economies, where many large western multinationals have also invested and relocated. relations with these countries should not be without respect for common rules, especially in the field of social standards and safety at work, which today are far from being a minimum of decency. if the european union can claim a minimum of guarantees, then perhaps we can look to a future with more consolidated relations: but at the moment, unfortunately, all this seems very far away and i do not see a strong european will to engage in this area.
in writing. - mr bütikofer presented a report to parliament today which aims to draw attention to the future of eu-asean relations, which are becoming increasingly important in view of the increasing purchasing power and size of the south-east asian economy and the political influence that can be envisaged in the future. the report analysed how, in addition to strengthening economic ties, a framework of institutional and socio-political relations between the eu and asean could be envisaged. mr bütikofer's proposal seems ambitious, but it is certainly justified by the assessment of the encouraging process of internal integration under way in asean, the emerging political powers and the ongoing democratic challenges, such as that highlighted by the 'burma issue'. the report also makes suggestions for future eu-asean relations in a global context, in particular with china, japan and the united states, and considers ways of intensifying eu contributions to the asean integration process. as chairman of the delegation for relations with china and in view of the 10th asia-europe summit to be held in italy this year, i can only look favourably on the motion for a resolution in question and express my support for the intensification of cooperation between the two continents in a global context.
in writing. − while asean's economic size and purchasing power are growing considerably, the eu tends to favour relations with the major asian economies in the far east, specifically japan, india and china. i believe that the similarities between two economic areas such as the eu and asean can foster a common approach to bilateral economic relations between the two and foster mutual learning processes. i believe that both the political and the economic dimension should be properly considered. in the first case, i agree with the reinforcement of the parliamentary dimension of the report through a formal interparliamentary assembly. i also support the need to support the private sector by strengthening not only the dialogue between businesses and institutions but also between european and asian businesses in order to come together to solve problems that may arise from the different legislative frameworks in place and to exchange good practice. finally, i share the concern about developments in the south china sea, where chinese, japanese and american military movements are undermining the stability of the region, and i hope for a speedy peaceful solution to the matter.
in writing. - i abstained on the vote on the ţicău report on tachographs. although measures are needed to stop the phenomenon of the tampering with tachographs, i do not entirely agree with the positions contained in the text. i am totally opposed to the compulsory introduction of a new device on vehicles: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud, and it is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas:
in writing. - safety at work is an objective which this parliament pursues at every possible opportunity. this proposal for a regulation does not exclude: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the transport sector is not left to its own devices. even more so, people who spend weeks away from home have every right to want to return to their families as soon as possible. but that is no reason to let down your guard when it comes to road safety, especially for those who drive for work. i feel sorry for those colleagues who, for a trick, tried to blow up the long negotiations that led to this text: i, regardless of the quality of the amendments proposed, voted to have this text adopted and to replace the previous legislation, which was almost thirty years old.
in writing. - i voted in favour because i believe that the introduction of the tachograph will bring greater safety to those who drive. the tachograph will ensure better compliance with the rules on driving and resting times. the text still has some criticisms, such as the fact that the retrofit deadlines are too long, the choice of a simplified technology for the remote communication of the police force control devices, the provision of temporary cards for non-eu drivers and the fact that the timing for the application of the smart tachograph is too long. unfortunately, a rejection of the text would have had even more negative consequences.
in writing. - many, too many accidents are caused by sleep attacks caused by fatigue. europe has a duty to put into practice all those actions which contribute to increasing safety on our roads. the tachograph is a vital tool for controlling driving and rest times and for preventing careless drivers from putting other people's lives at risk. the new regulation will not only make fraud more difficult, but also reduce the administrative burden by making use of technology. it is the right way, to be taken without hesitation.
in writing. - i particularly appreciate the spirit of the proposal, which aims to make fraud more difficult, to implement social standards better and to spread new technologies by reducing administrative burdens. i share the general view of parliament on the intelligent tachograph, which will help to improve the implementation of legislation and will be a tool to reduce the administrative burden for legitimate transport companies. the new tachograph will also provide additional guarantees in relation to data protection and privacy. on this last point i am particularly pleased with the introduction of an article specifically devoted to data protection within the chapter 'principles, scope and requirements'. as regards the responsibilities and obligations of transport undertakings, i welcome the greater clarity introduced by the amendments to the text, in order to remove any legal uncertainties which would be detrimental to private operators. finally, i would like to stress that the adoption of the smart tachograph must be widespread within an acceptable timeframe, but at the same time the purchase and installation of the tachograph must be economically accessible and not excessively burdensome for transport undertakings.
in writing. − the tachograph is used in road transport to check compliance with the rules on driving times and rest periods, in order to ensure road safety, to ensure decent working conditions for drivers and to promote fair competition between transport companies. the new regulation, which will replace the current 1985 regulation, will therefore make it more difficult to commit fraud. the administrative burden will also be reduced through the effective use of new technologies and regulatory measures.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because public procurement is a very important part of economic activity within the eu, where public procurement and concessions are the most frequent forms of it. the preliminary discussion identified two major obstacles: (a) confirmation of the need for a european initiative to at least arrive at a common definition of concessions and their allocation; (b) the need for a 'light' approach, based on a legislative framework sufficiently robust to avoid interpretations, which does not, however, lead to either detailed regulation of the award of concession contracts or additional administrative costs. in this context, i share the four objectives summarized by the rapporteur: 1) the clarification, reorganisation and simplification of the directive to ensure an effective, readable, coherent and pragmatic legislative framework; (2) the specific nature of the concession in relation to the public procurement and the adaptation of the provisions to its characteristics; (3) the affirmation of the full autonomy of public authorities in choosing the legal framework for their action and the freedom to organise themselves in the performance of their tasks; (4) the maintenance of a fair balance between the need for flexibility and the margin of appreciation of public authorities in their choices and the need for transparency for the equal treatment of economic operators.
in writing. - i do not share the views expressed in the juvin report on the introduction of a directive regulating concession contracts. the legal traditions of the various member states are too different from one another to permit the introduction of a single european legislation; i therefore did not vote in favour of the text.
in writing. − the lack of legal certainty, the 'friendly' contracts and the legal mosaic that exists in europe in the field of concessions have motivated me to support the proposal to establish a uniform legislative framework at european level, capable of introducing clear, coherent, readable and effective rules. concessions are an important form of public-private partnership available to public authorities for the construction of infrastructure or the provision of services. in particular, the proposal provides for a common definition of concessions and their award procedures; the need for a robust legislative framework without additional administrative costs; the clarification, reorganisation and simplification of the european commission's directive on concessions; the statement of the specificity of the concession in relation to the public procurement; the affirmation of the autonomy of public authorities in choosing the legal framework for action, in carrying out their tasks and in setting quality criteria in the case of the provision of services, and the preservation of a fair balance between flexibility and the need for transparency, in order to ensure equal treatment of economic operators. the proposal also provides for the publication in the official journal of calls for tenders for concessions worth more than 5 million.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this new concession directive, which finally introduces a new european legal institution which will improve the internal market. concessions are an important form of public-private partnership available to public authorities for the construction of infrastructure or the provision of services. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is transposed into national law in a uniform manner, so that this new regulatory instrument is as effective as possible. these new rules, if applied consistently in all member states, will certainly be a major lever for the european economy.
in writing. - i am happy to see that the objective of creating a new legal institution for concessions has finally been achieved. this new approach will introduce clearer rules in the sector, which will certainly stimulate and increase transparency in the field of procurement. in my view, it is very important that there should be more protection for small and mediumsized enterprises.
in writing. i have decided to vote against this directive for two main reasons: firstly, the different legal traditions of the member states regulate concession contracts in too different a way and the attempt to reduce them all to a single legislative text risks creating various problems. in addition, there were several reports from national parliaments which, although not reaching the number sufficient to block the initiative, raised serious and detailed criticisms about the respect of the principle of subsidiarity and proportionality. in the light of the final result, it is surprising that the european commission was able to find a majority in favour of the text, since in the same own-initiative report in which the imco commission published its reflections on the future of the procurement sector, commissioner barnier was advised not to submit a legislative proposal also on concessions.
in writing. − concessions represent a large share of public procurement within the union market, which requires a clear and at the same time streamlined approach at european level in order to create an efficient and transparent common framework. i think that this report reflects these characteristics. i agree with the unambiguous definition of 'concession' and i believe that, as drafted, it can put an end to any legal uncertainty that exists. i agree with the choice to give the public authorities the possibility of setting quality criteria, since the welfare of the citizen must always be the objective of our action. i think the rapporteur has succeeded in finding the right balance between flexibility and confidentiality of information provided by candidates and tenderers on the one hand and the guarantee of procedural transparency on the other. in conclusion, i also believe that, in view of the public policy objectives, it is right to give the grantor the choice of award criteria environmental, social or innovation criteria. in conclusion, i believe that the proposal lays down a light, clear and broad approach which will allow for a more equitable and sustainable procurement policy.
in writing. the new european concession directive is, in itself, the main innovation in the whole legislative package on public procurement. although the measure has been weakened in the course of the legislative process, it has the merit of introducing a specific framework for both works and service concessions, which until now had as their normative reference only the principles of the treaty. on the procedural side, the directive does not introduce particularly detailed award procedures and, by adapting them, it recovers some of the provisions already contained in the new procurement directives.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the public procurement market represents almost 20% of the union's gdp. this is precisely why the new legislative package on public procurement is important, because it can have a strong impact on growth, generate new public demand and support a new industrial policy of the union. the new measures include the introduction of new simplification measures, greater openness to participation by smes in tendering procedures, increased use of digital communication in tendering procedures, the introduction of social clauses and the preference for quality criteria in the selection of works and services for tendering over the mere criterion of the lowest price. moreover, more transparency in subcontracting. these are all innovations that meet the needs of enterprises, especially smes.
in writing. - i do not share the views expressed in the tarabella report on the public procurement directive and do not believe that there is a need to reform existing legislation, especially in the terms proposed in this text. for these reasons i did not support it.
in writing. - i voted in favour because i believe that by exploiting the full potential of public procurement in the single market, sustainable growth, employment and social inclusion can be promoted. the proposal provides for the modernisation of the directives on the award of public contracts and the simplification of the rules, and for the identification of sound and effective procedures based on award criteria linked to innovation and sustainability, while ensuring greater participation by smes. in particular, the report aims to simplify and streamline procurement procedures and reduce delays, to facilitate access to public procurement for small and medium-sized enterprises, to improve the quality of public procurement with greater regard to environmental criteria, to strengthen national instruments to combat social dumping (unusually low tenders due to violations of social rights will be excluded from procurement procedures) and to improve existing safeguards to combat possible conflicts of interest and instances of corruption.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this new procurement regulation, which is a very important achievement of this parliament. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the simplification of procedures has been given due importance; the legal certainty essential for public and economic operators in the field of procurement has been strengthened; the commission has also taken the necessary steps to ensure that the system is more efficient. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is transposed into national law in a uniform manner, so that this new regulatory instrument is as effective as possible. these new rules, if applied consistently in all member states, will certainly be a major lever for the european economy.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this proposal because it will ensure greater legal certainty and transparency in public procurement. it is a simplified text, which also aims to avoid possible forms of abuse. i would like to stress that this will give all economic operators and smes access to the market. i am therefore pleased with the result achieved: we must continue to work in this direction. only then will we make significant progress in europe.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the public procurement directive because i am in favour of strengthening the specific discipline on public procurement. i consider the possibility of mutual access to public procurement markets to be important for the union's new trade policy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. this report is a strong signal at international level that the eu is committed to achieving greater openness in public procurement markets, which will allow the new opportunities offered by a balanced liberalisation of trade to be exploited. i believe that the establishment of a specific framework for public procurement is a priority for the european parliament, which can also refer to the european action plan 2014-2019 established by the special committee on organised crime, corruption and money laundering as regards the exclusion from tendering procedures of economic operators convicted by a previous judgment of participation in a criminal organisation, financing of terrorism or undermining the fiscal capacity of the state or causing social harm.
in writing. - i have given a favourable opinion on the report by my colleague on the award of public contracts, because i believe that the directives need to be modernised, simplifying the rules and amending the criteria for the award of contracts. in a time of economic crisis, i believe it is essential to reach out to the industrial sector and to small and mediumsized enterprises by reducing red tape. too often, excessive bureaucracy is a major obstacle for private operators in the process of filing applications and collecting funds, in effect slowing down investment. this directive will make things easier for businesses by drastically reducing administrative burdens and ensuring better and more transparent access to the public procurement system, in order to increase the competitiveness of our businesses. the member states will have time to transpose the directive and will have to organise themselves as best they can, through their control systems, to ensure transparent management and the proper functioning of the procurement system, which also strengthens the grounds for exclusion for companies that will not comply with obligations towards administrations, workers and the environment.
in writing. − the rules adopted today will finally ensure better value for money when public authorities buy or lease supplies, works or services. the new rules on community public procurement will give breathing space to smes, making it easier for them to submit tenders, with stricter provisions on subcontracting.
in writing. − the public procurement market can foster sustainable growth, employment and social inclusion in europe, but only if the updating of public procurement legislation is able to reach the intersection between regulatory simplification and the identification of sound and effective procedures based on award criteria linked to innovation and sustainability. i agree with the rapporteur that it is possible to include environmental impact, safety requirements, in particular for the assessment of product quality, packaging, instructions for use and life cycle requirements in the technical specifications. i welcome the attention paid to smes, especially through the rules on subcontracting, but i do not entirely agree with the provisions allowing the contracting authority to ask the tenderer to indicate in his tender the possible part of the contract which he intends to subcontract to third parties, since the need for performance may change in the long term. finally, in order to lighten the work of contracting authorities, i believe that all the procedures provided for in the directive should be transposed by the member states and that they should provide the authorities with all the financial and technical means to enable them to adapt to the online public procurement procedure.
in writing. the rapporteur, mr tarabella, believes that the modernisation of the public procurement directives should strike the right balance between simplifying the rules and identifying sound and effective procedures based on innovation and sustainability-related award criteria, thus ensuring greater participation by smes and making public procurement on-line more widespread. i share those reasons and therefore voted in favour.
in writing. - i did not support the tarabella report on the reform of the current public procurement rules for public service providers in the water, energy, transport and postal services sectors. the amendments proposed by the text are decidedly unambitious and do not bring any benefits to smes or the controversial subject of subcontracting.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal on the procurement procedures of public service bodies in the water, energy, transport and postal services sectors, because the text adopted, while simplified and revised, does not affect the ability of public administrations to choose whether and how to use the concession instrument. we have all worked in parliament to ensure that this directive does not lead to excessive privatisation or outsourcing. these are services which play a fundamental role. the directive leaves national authorities free to define these services, their organisation and their financing.
in writing. - as these are particularly sensitive areas of public interest, the incorporation of this proposal into the report on public procurement has enabled a more detailed analysis of the subject under consideration. as regards social aspects, these sectors have a potentially much wider impact on society and the environment and therefore merit particular attention, especially through the introduction of stricter constraints on the transparency of the externalities that contracting entities would cause in the context in which they operate. i particularly appreciate the concept of a socially sustainable production process which ensures respect for workers' health and safety and social standards. i also welcome the introduction of the concept of 'most economically advantageous tender' instead of 'lowest price', which would enable contracting authorities to make the most appropriate choice according to their specific needs. once again, i am pleased with the attention paid to smes, which perform a vital function through subcontracting and generate added value for the european economy along the entire production chain. i think, however, that the contracting authorities should be allowed to choose not to state at the outset how much of the contract they intend to subcontract, since requirements may change during the course of the work.
in writing. − with the final adoption of the new public procurement directives, the european union is about to introduce some significant and positive innovations: the new legislative package has the merit of addressing the issue of public expenditure in the member states, with the aim of renewing the capacity of public demand to pursue growth objectives, based on industrial policy logic. in particular, simplification of procedures, in particular the reduction of contract award times in both open and negotiated procedures and restricted procedures, but also the introduction of new procedures such as innovation partnerships, with a view to using public procurement as a tool to support innovation and research policies, should be welcomed. the new directives also promote greater participation by smes in tendering procedures and reduce the administrative burden of submitting the necessary documentation for participation in tenders.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are in a very serious economic crisis and we cannot afford to make any concessions. if we are talking about public procurement, we must be clear: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. not to mention what's happening in china. this lack of reciprocity cannot be accepted. it's a form of unfair competition. the commission's negotiating powers should be strengthened, and the right rules of a genuinely competitive market should be enforced in a non-discriminatory and equal manner.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the caspary report analysing the regulation on access for goods and services from third countries to the internal market for public procurement in the european union. this legislative proposal will make it possible to exclude from european tenders companies based in countries where the same opportunities for participation are not guaranteed for companies in our territories.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal because it will allow european companies to gain easier access to international public procurement markets compared to the access the eu already grants to foreign companies. european commission data show that 85% of the eu's public procurement market is already open to international competition, while european companies can bid for only 32% of public contracts in the us and 28% in japan. the proposal represents an important first step towards the introduction of a new instrument to promote greater reciprocity in access to international public procurement markets. in particular, the report confirms and maintains the degree of openness of the eu public procurement market, with no provisions suggesting protectionist returns; in the event of repeated and serious discrimination against european suppliers in third countries, provide the european commission with a mechanism to restrict their access to the eu market; it introduces minimal bureaucratic burdens, with no financial or organisational implications. at the same time, the proposal, by providing the european commission with legal instruments, will make it possible to strengthen the competitive position of european industries at global level, while fully complying with international rules.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this proposal for a regulation on access for goods and services from third countries to the public procurement markets. i generally agree with the idea of preventing non-european companies from competing for public contracts, unless their home country allows eu companies to do the same. i believe that this instrument, which will be used with the scrutiny of the european commission, will serve to strengthen its role in trade negotiations with third countries.
in writing. - it is now clear to everyone that we must avoid allowing non-eu companies to compete for public contracts worth more than eur 5 million unless their home country allows our companies to do the same. only in this way will it be possible to strengthen the eu's position in trade negotiations with third countries.
in writing. − the proposal for a regulation on access for goods and services from third countries to the eu's internal market for public procurement and on procedures to support negotiations on access for eu goods and services to the public procurement markets of third countries is the result of a compromise text which represents an important step towards the introduction of a new instrument allowing greater reciprocity in access to international public procurement markets. the greatest risk in europe is represented by the protectionist policies of many of the eu's major trading partners, which in effect restrict access to their own public procurement markets. european commission data show that 85% of the eu's public procurement market is already open to international competition, while, for example, european companies can only bid for 32% of public contracts in the us and 28% in japan. i voted in favour because i believe that parliament should give a strong signal of the opening of negotiations with the council, and thus also challenge the international community to commit itself to the eu, by opening up procurement markets, boosting the competitiveness of european companies and ensuring a balanced liberalisation of trade.
in writing. - i have decided to vote in favour of this measure as it lays down the rules for access of goods and services from third countries to the european public procurement market on the basis of reciprocity. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a regulation on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster. finally, article 1 states that the regulation applies only to contracts above the community threshold and that the goods and services 'covered' and 'uncovered' are defined precisely.
in writing. - i believe that this act is the right compromise between defending european operators in the global procurement market and achieving a level of fair competition with foreign operators. its purpose is not to prevent access to the european contract market for goods and services from third countries. on the contrary, it must encourage their entry, provided that this is done on a level playing field with the offer of european operators. i also fully support the adoption of measures to open a dialogue with those countries which have protectionist rules on access to the procurement market, in order to ensure that european operators who decide to participate in tenders in those countries are not disadvantaged at the outset. i am referring, for example, to the buy local clauses in the united states or the strong restrictions in brazil or china. in this respect, i think the proposal is well balanced, since, contrary to what some colleagues believe, it will not provoke retaliation from the eu's trading partners, but will rather encourage them to adopt more liberal measures so that their operators are not restricted or denied access to the huge and rich market that the eu represents.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the regulation to include the acquisition of the right to vote and stand as a candidate in elections to the european parliament. this proposal, put forward by the european commission in march 2012, was the result of a long reflection, supported by the entire european industry, on the protectionist policies put in place by many of the eu's major trading partners to restrict access to their public procurement markets. european commission data show that 85% of the eu's public procurement market is already open to international competition, while, for example, european companies can only bid for 32% of public contracts in the us and 28% in japan. it was therefore necessary to develop a new instrument to allow european companies to gain easier access to international public procurement markets compared to the access that the eu already grants to foreign companies.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, pollen is a natural constituent of honey and not an added ingredient. to classify pollen as an ingredient means, first of all, to affect the reputation of this product, which is clearly a natural product. but there would also be negative economic and employment consequences for the beekeeping sector. so no to the increase in production costs to do unnecessary additional testing in addition to labelling charges. there would only be a decrease in consumption and no advantage for the defence of native pollen. there are far more serious problems: firstly, the use of pesticides which pose serious risks to the life of bees. bees are the alarm bell of the loss of biodiversity in our countryside: protecting them is essential for the survival of ecosystems, including human ones.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today we have witnessed a colossal fraud against the citizens of europe. today, the issue is not the labelling of pollen as an ingredient, but the exclusion of the obligation to be informed about a product which is natural today but may not be so tomorrow, because of the massive presence of gmos. today, every farmer is free to use genetically modified seeds, and bees can take and pollinate those products. if, on the other hand, the lepage measure, which parliament adopted by an overwhelming majority, had been approved by the council, we would now have the opportunity to safeguard biodiversity and also to safeguard certain production areas free of gmo pollen. not asking for labelling requirements for the presence of gmos above the regulatory limit is a big scam.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because the proposal will allow the commission to amend the technical characteristics of the names, descriptions and definitions of the products in question. therefore, the commission proposal, by allowing a change in the essential elements, falls outside the scope of delegated acts as defined by the treaty. the rapporteur also amended the period during which the power to adopt delegated acts may be conferred on the commission. this period has been changed from an indefinite period to a five-year period which can be tacitly extended. the amendment takes parliament's standard wording on delegated acts.
in writing. - i voted to consider pollen an ingredient . my position is against the use of gmos and i regret to point out that there are european countries which use genetically modified organisms. although there are more than 50 different types of honey in italy - a real production of excellence - we are still forced to import more than half of our production. i therefore believe that it is essential to ensure consumer protection by indicating the presence of gmos on the label. unfortunately, today's vote does not go in that direction. we shall then see what position emerges at the trilogue.
in writing. the content of the report concerns the proposal for a european parliament and council directive amending council directive 2001/110/ec on honey. i am voting in favour because i agree with the text, which makes it clear that pollen is not an ingredient in honey but a component.
in writing. - beekeepers and honey producers fear that the position expressed in the envi commission could seriously damage the sector. we cannot ignore the position of the main players in this chain who tell us that classifying pollen as an ingredient will not benefit the sector. the pollens are a natural constituent of honey, and any other approach would be a scientific error and would lead to serious problems for the industry. there would be no advantage for the protection of native pollen and a mismatch would be caused for the honey product, which would be subject to labelling charges below the threshold currently provided for by community legislation. not to mention the increased costs of sampling and labelling honey.
in writing. − the report on the revision of the honey directive (2001/111/ec) raised several problems, mainly as a result of the orientation of the envi vote on the classification of pollen as an ingredient, rather than a natural constituent, of honey. the main concerns were the interests of small local beekeepers, who would be penalised if the house upheld the approach expressed by parliament following the ruling of the european court of justice. the current wording of the directive, as well as the commission's initial proposal, considers pollen to be a natural constituent of honey. a different approach would have led to a mismatch for the honey product, subject to labelling charges below the threshold currently provided for by community legislation and to an increase in sampling and labelling costs. for these reasons i supported and voted in favour of the rapporteur's position, whose motivation i shared was to protect small producers from an incoherent approach, which would have led to a sharp decline in the consumption (both direct and indirect) of italian honey, with direct repercussions in terms of employment.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal to ensure that honey is also covered by a set of rules which define pollen as a natural component of honey rather than an ingredient. this means that genetically modified pollen must be labelled if it yields more than 0.9% of the honey. the ingredient/constituent dilemma arose because of the labelling implications for each option. if pollen is still considered a 'constituent', the genetically modified pollen present would not need any labelling. this is because the gmo rule requires that only the genetically modified content in quantities exceeding 0.9% be indicated on the label of the finished product. since natural pollen reaches a threshold of around 0,5% per consignment of honey, it could never exceed the labelling threshold. i fully share the parliament's position on this issue, since it has decided to take a stand against gmos, in favour of quality agricultural products which characterise the european market and certain european regions in particular, promoting high quality standards, with an eye to the vast agricultural component of the european economy.
in writing. - mr girling's report concerns the revision of the so-called honey directive (2001/111/ec). the italian and european industry in the sector, together with beekeepers, expressed serious concern before the vote if the plenary session had confirmed the orientation emerging in the envi committee with regard to the classification of pollen as an ingredient, and not as a natural constituent, of honey. the current wording of the directive, as well as the initial proposal of the european commission, consider pollen as a natural constituent of honey. a different approach would be a scientific error in the first place and would lead to a number of problems for the sector, including a sharp decline in the consumption (both direct and indirect) of italian honey, with direct repercussions in terms of employment.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, international cooperation in the fight against fraud is a top priority for the european union. italy, in particular, is one of the countries most affected by counterfeiting: it is even estimated that the fraudulent turnover of 'italian sounding' products, in the agri-food sector alone, amounts to 60 billion euros a year, resources taken from honest entrepreneurs, from those who follow the rules. i therefore believe that this programme can and should strengthen our strategy to protect products 'made in europe' and i am very pleased that the high share of co-financing - at least 80% - by the union is a sign that this activity is a common priority. every counterfeit european product is a fraud which affects all of us, not just the individual company that is the victim of the fraud.
in writing. − i voted for this regulation because hercule iii will develop activities at union and member state level to counter fraud, corruption and any other illegal activities affecting the financial interests of the union. the main objectives are to provide technical equipment and training to customs and other law-enforcement agencies to enhance their effectiveness in combating all illegal financial activities which are damaging to the eu budget. however i believe it is important to establish key performance indicators in order to assess the effectiveness of the programme and its specific objective.
in writing. - i agree with the positions taken in this report: i believe that it is of paramount importance to protect the eu's financial interests and to combat fraud and illegal activities affecting them. i therefore voted in favour of the text.
in writing. - i voted against this report. let me be clear: i don't think there's anything wrong with this program. i find the assumptions rather depressing. smuggling of cigarettes is already costing member states money because it reduces tax revenues and, moreover, increases health expenditure because it allows harmful products to be placed on the market which are not subject to the same controls as those of monopoly products and are therefore potentially more dangerous. to these two sources of waste we must add the hercule iii programme, which devotes human and financial resources to combating smuggling and other forms of fraud. in other words, the citizen who buys contraband cigarettes may save a few dollars but then defrauds the state (and himself) in this way: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, and whether it is not in a position to do so. i think it's absurd, but it's worth fighting for.
in writing. - i believe that the hercule iii programme, as envisaged in the proposal, represents a fairly satisfactory compromise between the various needs which emerged at the beginning of the legislative process. specialized technical support to member states is of primary importance in order to equip national authorities with the appropriate technical tools for effective transnational cooperation, including through the initiation of staff exchanges. operational support to national law enforcement authorities in the fight against illegal cross-border activities and fraud affecting the financial interests of the union is also important. i strongly support the role that could be played by the organisation of joint specialised training through seminars on risk analysis and methods of combating illegal activities affecting the financial interests of the union. the prevention and response capacity of authorities would thus benefit from a better understanding of national and union mechanisms and from better cooperation between member states' authorities in terms of research, analysis and action. finally, considering that financial interests can also be located outside the territory of the union, i consider it particularly far-sighted to establish cooperation and exchange of information with the authorities of third countries and international organisations.
in writing. - i believe that the hercule iii programme, as envisaged in the proposal, represents a fairly satisfactory compromise between the various needs which emerged at the beginning of the legislative process. specialized technical support to member states is of primary importance in order to equip national authorities with the appropriate technical tools for effective transnational cooperation, including through the initiation of staff exchanges. operational support to national law enforcement authorities in the fight against illegal cross-border activities and fraud affecting the financial interests of the union is also important. i strongly support the role that could be played by the organisation of joint specialised training through seminars on risk analysis and methods of combating illegal activities which harm the union's financial interests. the prevention and response capacity of the authorities would thus benefit from a better understanding of national and union mechanisms, and from better cooperation between member states' authorities in terms of research, analysis and action. finally, considering that financial interests can also be attacked outside the territory of the union, i consider it particularly far-sighted to establish cooperation and exchange of information with the authorities of third countries and international organisations.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr macovei's report, which welcomes the initiative to combat corruption, fraud and other illegal activities affecting the financial interests of the european union. the programme has a financial allocation of approximately eur 105 million for the period 2014-2020, which is a significant increase compared to the previous hercule ii programme.
in writing. - i found the martin report, which aims to improve the efficiency of the exchange of statistics on trade in goods between member states, to be acceptable and therefore decided to support it with my vote.
in writing. - the rapporteur agrees that the commission should consult experts during the preparatory work, after informing the member states of the parties to be consulted and on what basis the principle of impartiality should be ensured and any conflicts of interest avoided. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to amend the list of the persons referred to in paragraph 1 by adding the following: as regards the confidential data which are processed, i think it is essential to stress that the national authorities must treat them with due confidentiality and for statistical purposes only, without in any way transmitting them to international organisations other than those expressly mentioned in the regulation. i also agree with what he said about article 1 (9), namely the reduction of the commission's administrative costs and burden in relation to delegated acts. finally, i believe that member states can simplify the information required for smaller transactions, provided that this simplification does not seriously impair or reduce the final quality of the statistics for which these data are transferred.
in writing. − illicit trafficking in wildlife is a serious crossborder crime often involving organised crime groups and is currently the fourth largest illicit activity in the world, after drug trafficking, counterfeiting and human trafficking. the eu action plan against wildlife crime and trafficking is therefore a good one. i would recall that these issues were raised in the resolution of 23 october 2013 on organised crime, corruption and money laundering. i would like to stress one aspect that concerns local production: as i have recently emphasised in a question, at local level, the safeguarding and protection of wildlife and forestry must be reconciled with the defence and protection of farmers and businesses (often small family-run businesses) who make the conservation and enhancement of the territory in which they live and work a european and national level of excellence.
in writing. − i fully support this motion because wildlife crime constitutes a threat to the welfare of the animals and to the conservation of the animal and plant species concerned, putting the local ecosystems as a whole at risk. furthermore, illicit wildlife trafficking often involves transnational organised criminal networks and is used as a source of revenue with an annual turnover of at least usd 19 billion. this is why tackling wildlife crime requires a coordinated global response at the highest political level and between enforcement agencies. moreover, an eu plan of action against wildlife crime and trafficking needs to be established and effective judicial systems developed in order to better combat this crime at local, national and regional level.
in writing. - i share the views expressed in the resolution analysing wildlife crime: i agree with the need to create an eu action plan with clear timelines and objectives and i also believe that the judicial sector and international cooperation need to be strengthened, and for all these reasons i supported it.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this parliament resolution which calls for the strengthening and full implementation of existing legislation at eu and national level, improved border controls, increased sanctions and sentences for traffickers and enhanced cooperation between european countries and the exchange of information between relevant agencies such as the police and customs to ensure that no illegal wildlife products enter and are traded on the eu market. we cannot ignore the warnings of the wwf that every year tons of wild plants and animals cross their borders illegally. it is an important problem which must be solved by better cooperation between states and the commission as well as by a stronger role for the european institutions at national level.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution, which has the merit of highlighting the importance of ensuring adequate protection for wild species, which are often the subject of illegal trade both within the union and especially from continents such as africa or asia. there are real billionaire criminal networks behind this business, whose main beneficiaries are unscrupulous people, often linked to organized crime. there are several testimonies of mafia bosses who owned "domesticated" tigers, as if they were simple guard dogs: this is unacceptable, because it forces a species to live outside its natural habitat, in conditions that are totally unsuitable, and it also poses a serious risk of extinction in the native territories where they are caught. perhaps even worse is the illegal trade in elephant tusks and rhino horns: these animals are often left to die in agony after their parts have been brutally removed. this trafficking also, of course, serves to enrich the so-called african "warlords", who derive funds from this illicit activity to finance their military activities, thus bringing further death and despair to an already distressed continent.
in writing. - unfortunately, the eu is a significant market for illegal wildlife trade, worth 10 billion a year. the eu currently lacks the capacity to enforce and enforce laws against this trade because of sanctions that are too small in relation to the profits that are generated. i believe that the union must develop an action plan against wildlife crime within its own borders, including targets and timetables. a key element in this regard would be the full implementation by member states of recommendation 2007/425/ec on the implementation of regulation (ec) no 338/97 on the protection of species of wild fauna and flora. on the other hand, i believe that the commission should monitor more effectively the application of directive 2008/99/ec on the criminal protection of the environment, as in some member states there are still no effective and proportionate criminal sanctions that act as a deterrent against illegal actions. however, eu action should also extend beyond its own borders, in particular by including the fight against wildlife crime as a priority in the programming of financial instruments for development aid and by promoting open dialogue on the matter with the main regional and international organisations.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as the representative of the council and the representatives of the commission have pointed out, there are rules, there are abuses and violations of the rules on free movement. i would remind you that under these rules a european citizen can go to any of the other 27 countries, but he must not be a burden on public assistance and must have a minimum income. often these conditions are not met and nobody reacts, enforcing the relevant rules. in italy, the country where i was elected, we have long since accepted, although we have no moratorium, many citizens, especially romanians, especially of a particular strain, who are not registered on the labour lists, so they do not look for work and live mostly on social assistance. we demand that these abuses be stopped and that european rules be respected.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there are 3,300,000 unemployed in italy and a third of the italian population is at risk of poverty. i would advise anyone who insists here that the free movement of workers cannot be called into question to go and meet the unemployed, to talk to the entrepreneurs who are closing their businesses because of the crisis. then he would understand that there are no jobs for romanians or bulgarians in italy because there are no jobs for italian citizens either. the only thing to do now is to block entry to italy for at least two years, not only for non-eu citizens but also, through the quota mechanism, for citizens from romania and bulgaria, also because these uninvited guests, once they arrive in italy, demand free medical care and financial aid right away. treatment and financial aid that even the italian citizens have not guaranteed. the european union must tackle this problem before the social tensions that already exist explode in a very dangerous way. (the speaker agrees to answer a blue-card question)
answer to a blue-card question. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have spoken about bulgarians and romanians who are of course european citizens. but the italian people don't care: they're looking for work and they can't find it, and knowing that people come from far away to occupy that place, they don't like it. i say this: there are too many unemployed, too many elderly people who cannot even afford to buy medicine, and people from other countries who want it now. i say this, this is the reality and we must accept it now.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, to call into question the principle of free movement today is not only unhistorical but also absurd. the free movement of persons is a modern right of citizenship and it is surprising that it is being called into question by political sectors which have always been theorists of the most unbridled liberalism and yet, when they speak of the labour market, they even foreshadow a protected, if not autarchic, condition of the same. you have to convince yourself: freedom of movement is important because it is an extraordinary economic lever: there's no way to compete in the global marketplace if you don't also have rules that are enforced and that people who work, and even when they're just citizens, are protected by their communities because it ensures social cohesion, it reduces conflict and it increases participation. so it's a good thing we have freedom of movement.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, european citizenship is closely linked to national citizenship - without one there is no other - and it is an achievement on the road to integration. european citizenship is not an autonomous value, because it cannot be acquired without national citizenship. today we are witnessing too much easy acquisition of national citizenship, which is detracting from european citizenship. while migrants seeking to save their lives are faced with the difficulties that member states impose in obtaining asylum, there are grants of national citizenship, which would also become european, in return for costly fees. it is inconceivable that citizenship can be reduced to the status of a commodity and put up for sale as such. we must, with due respect for national states, establish transparent rules which protect us from the risk of creating new opportunities for criminal and terrorist organisations and which enable us to avoid creating further inequalities between richer and poorer people.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, citizenship has always been a hot topic. in many countries there is a debate, often linked to the topic of immigration, about how citizenship is acquired: does one become a citizen by birth or by staying or residing in the territory of a state? it is the old question of the ius soli or the ius sanguinis, on which public opinion is habitually divided. so, is it jus soli or jus sanguinis? but because we never cease to be amazed, today we learn that there is also the ius pecuniae, that is, the possibility of becoming citizens of a state because you have money to buy what is normally acquired by identity, passion, desire to belong to a community. today the socialist government of malta tells us that citizenship is a commodity, a tax paid to obtain a passport, as if it were a stamp. that is why i agree with commissioner reding that we must reject this method and call on the maltese government to step back, because there is no right that can be marketed. we have worked hard to build our national states, often at great personal sacrifice, and it has taken decades to build and launch the european project. maybe we just wasted time? maybe an auction would have been enough to grant citizenship? i believe that the history behind us points us in the right direction. we are not opening a door through which not only a plethora of unknowns will penetrate but above all a legal monster which risks putting our european construction and our own national states in crisis.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we can certainly say that we are in a new phase in the stabilization process of the western balkans and it is no doubt worthwhile to underline the appreciation for the determination and commitment shown by the serbian and kosovar governments in reaching the historic agreement and its progressive implementation. the dialogue, facilitated by the european union, has achieved unprecedented results and could become a model for the entire region in the future. we are at a crucial turning point in the stabilization process and we must work to make this process irreversible, both for belgrade and for pristina, because constructive cooperation between the two countries is necessary for the successful continuation of their respective integration processes. in this context, while underlining the progress made in kosovo, it is necessary to accelerate reforms in the following areas: i am thinking of economic and social reforms, the reorganization of the judiciary, the fight against corruption and crime, and i am thinking of the problems still open in northern kosovo. for all this, our presence in kosovo as the european union, including through eulex, must serve to commit ourselves more strongly to encouraging the authorities to carry out this path of reform, as indicated by mr lunacek. moreover, the more determined the kosovo authorities are in pursuing these objectives, the more the process of integration will be facilitated. all 28 countries of the european union have recognised the importance of the progress made in belgrade and, as regards kosovo, even those countries which have not yet recognised it, while insisting that all member states' positions be respected, accept the principle of the parallelism of the two processes of approximation to the european union of serbia and kosovo. it is therefore time, commissioner, to make a decisive turn and to really seize the opportunities which the current political phase offers to all those involved.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i must say that we are always a little perplexed when we talk about enlargement, and even here we cannot escape this point of view, in the sense that, especially as regards kosovo, we believe that the problems of that country are many and are also very difficult to solve in a few years. let us take corruption, for example, which is certainly one of the main issues. but then we also think about the unemployment rate and the economic rates that kosovo has. i have a concern, because the fear is that when we liberalize this country, there might be a large influx of immigrants, like for example italy, which already has a very high unemployment rate. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. but with the critical situation of our domestic economies, why have we had to give six hundred and thirty-five million euros to kosovo over the last seven years? it's something our citizens have a hard time understanding. i also look at the serbia data: one billion three hundred and eighty-five million euros in the last seven years. these are things that if i go and tell my constituents, they probably won't believe either, and it's something that unfortunately happens and i ask that it be reviewed.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the agreements of april, the developments of the last few months and weeks, show that the european union can have a real, great foreign and neighbourhood policy when it wants to. the good result of the administrative elections gave solidity and substance to the process initiated by the april agreement. free and democratic elections were held for the first time in the whole territory of kosovo under the law of that country. the positive will to cooperate of all the actors has made it possible to achieve this result and has made it possible to overcome the obstacles, obstacles still present today, as the case of nord mitrovica also shows, of the unwillingness to take the oath and take office of the elected mayor. but even in this case, it seems to me that we are moving towards a positive solution, towards new elections which will then allow the formation, finally, of the association of serb municipalities in northern kosovo. this shows that the process must be followed and accompanied, but also that, when it wants to, the european union can achieve and will achieve very important results in the stabilization of the western balkans.
member of the commission. − madam president, i would like to thank the honourable members for their comments. the message on iceland which i would like to leave you with today is one of openness. we should remain open to the icelandic government, and the people of iceland, should they decide to resume the accession negotiations. this is, of course, a decision for iceland – and iceland alone – to make. if there is at some point a decision to continue down the path towards membership of the european union, we should be ready to help them on that journey. we will, of course, follow the on-going debate in iceland about european union membership, including the upcoming presentation of the government’s assessment of the accession negotiations to the icelandic parliament. it was the icelandic government which decided to put the accession negotiations on hold, and the ball is in their court as regards the next steps in this process. the commission, for its part, is willing and able to complete the accession negotiations and remains confident that we can reach an outcome that is beneficial and positive for all sides. but with or without accession, our relations and cooperation will remain strong.
he is seeking the presidency of the council. - the madam president, the council and the presidency still believe that enlargement is one of the most successful policies of the european union and that is why, during our presidency, we look forward to continuing to work closely with the european parliament in this area. as far as iceland is concerned, of course, since the government of iceland has decided to stop the negotiations, progress cannot be made unless there is some change of attitude on the part of iceland, which is entirely up to iceland. i would like to point out, however, that we are cooperating with this country on a large number of issues, including its participation in the european economic area and schengen. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i have received a motion for a resolution. the president of the commission shall be informed of the outcome of the debate, in accordance with rule 110 (2). the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 16 january 2014 at 12.00 noon. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the discussion of the statement by the vice-president of the commission and high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in south sudan (2014/2512 ((rsp)).
president-in-office of the council, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − mr president, the crisis in south sudan began less than a month ago. at its root is a political struggle, one that has escalated into indiscriminate violence. in order to prevent yet another catastrophe in the region, a few issues need to be taken into consideration. firstly, this crisis will not be solved through more and continued violence. secondly, igad (the intergovernmental authority on development) has moved with considerable speed to place itself at the centre of mediation efforts. this should be both commended and supported. the european union encourages all regional and international efforts to align with and support igad mediation efforts and strongly discourages external intervention that might exacerbate the political and military tensions. thirdly, hostilities must stop. all violence directed at civilian populations must end, and those responsible for perpetrating human rights abuses must be held accountable. fourthly, although fighting started less than one month ago, the roots of this conflict are much deeper. a resolution can only come about through a sound and sustained political dialogue between the two sides, one that aims to pave the way for inclusive reconciliation. finally, all parties must ensure immediate and unconditional humanitarian access to all those in need: to the tens of thousands of south sudanese men, women and children who are the real victims of the violence. if the conflict is allowed to continue, the risk of all-out civil war will grow considerably as ethnic tensions rise and more civilians are killed, injured or forced to flee. as the humanitarian situation grows more dire, those who have remained on the sidelines will eventually be pulled into the conflict. no effort must be spared to stop this tragedy. let us make no mistake: we will all be called to account should we fail.
i have received 6 minutes. i am not going to go into the details of the procedure, but i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a brief explanation of his position. the debate is closed, the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes, for joint debate, the question with a request for an oral answer to the commission on the updating of the trade title of the eu-mexico economic partnership, political coordination and cooperation agreement by vital moreira, george sabin cutaş, on behalf of the committee on international trade (2013/2818(rsp)) (o-000115/2013 - b7-0101/2014), and the question with a request for an oral answer to the commission on the subject 'eu-chile: trade and trade-related matters of the agreement establishing an association between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of chile, of the other part' by vital moreira, maría auxiliadora correa zamora, on behalf of the committee on international trade (2013/2988(rsp)) (o-000814/2013 - b7-0310/2014).
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, honourable members, thank you very much for your interest in these interesting negotiations. the commission is exploring possible ways to modernise our trade relations with mexico and chile – two countries that are firm promoters of open markets, not just in latin america, but also in a multilateral context. we consider that this exploratory process is a very normal part of all these negotiations, because the interests are different. our partners have different interests in what should be modernised and what kind of amendments should be developed. before applying for a mandate for negotiations, this joint vision report can play a very useful role. the debate we have had tonight takes place in a year of change for both of our institutions. rest assured that we have a process of technical consultation and scoping planned for 2014 that we are sticking to. once the moment for new political decisions has come, with respect to either agreement, these decisions will be taken by whichever team is in place at the time. in the meantime, the commission will keep the european parliament regularly informed on the progress in our exploratory talks through the inta committee.
the debate is closed.
member of the commission. − madam president, honourable members, the european commission shares the view, expressed by several groups, that homelessness represents one of the worst forms of poverty and social exclusion and has devastating consequences for the people themselves and for society as a whole. in recent years poverty in europe has risen, mainly in the more peripheral countries and regions, reaching unprecedented levels among those who are more vulnerable, such as the homeless. the rise of poverty has also affected wider layers of society: young people, migrants and families with children. while planning and implementing policies confronting homelessness remains a matter of primarily national competence, the commission fully supports the efforts of the member states in this domain. the eu respects and promotes the right to social and housing assistance under the charter of fundamental rights to combat social exclusion and poverty. the social investment package presented by the commission in february 2013 calls on the member states to eradicate homelessness in a sustainable way by targeting the very different causes of homelessness; implementing comprehensive, preventive, housing-led homelessness policies; and revising their practices on eviction. the package and its dedicated staff working document provide guidance on core elements of homelessness strategies and good practices to foster efficient policy-making in the member states. we will further disseminate this guidance in the forthcoming period by means of a brochure, among other things. strategies to tackle homelessness should not be limited to the provision of crisis interventions through shelter-based approaches. to address street homelessness, shelters are an immediate, but only a transitory, solution. studies show that shelter-based approaches are costly, and they do not lead to getting homeless people out of their situation in a sustainable manner. instead, member states should pursue long-term, housing-led approaches, in other words they should make a serious effort rapidly to re-house homeless people and prevent the loss of permanent housing. we also need better coordination between housing policy actors and housing providers and more engagement with private sector actors to boost the amount of affordable housing available, for example by establishing social rental agencies. the commission is also very attentive to the interactions between state aid rules and housing policies. in the context of active inclusion strategies, specific attention is, moreover, being paid to accompanying measures ensuring access to good-quality social and health services. the social investment package calls upon the member states to spend european structural and investment funds in a more strategic way. these funds are available to improve housing outcomes, and housing remains a funding priority for the 2014-2020 financial framework. the european regional development fund may, for instance, finance integrated housing interventions and energy-efficient housing renovations. the european social fund can complement such integrated investments and can fund enhanced access to quality social services. through the progress programme, the commission finances innovative social projects such as housing first europe, which has delivered evidence that homelessness can be successfully addressed through the re-housing of long-term homeless people. for the period 2014-2020, eur 3.5 billion has been allocated to the recently- adopted fund for european aid to the most deprived to provide non-financial assistance to the most deprived people and explicitly address the food deprivation of homeless people, combined with activities aimed at their social inclusion. we are also aware that we need better-quality, comparable data on housing, and that we should deepen our knowledge of homelessness and of its multiple root causes through eu-wide analysis. to this end, the commission launched a pilot project on the right to housing, which will look into the link between housing evictions and homelessness. in the same vein, this year we will start developing, together with the oecd, a comprehensive database on social policies for housing. we also cooperate with the dublin foundation to monitor how housing quality influences social outcomes. the commission encourages and supports exchanges on inclusive housing policies through the social open method of coordination and by organising thematic events. for instance, last november, we set up a workshop on integrated strategies for re-housing homeless people in the framework of the annual convention of the european platform against poverty and social exclusion. the commission is committed to working with experienced partners at european, national, regional and local level to support the member states in preparing and further developing such national strategies. finally, i would underline that the effectiveness of homelessness-related provisions can also be addressed in the commission’s monitoring exercise within the framework of the european semester. member states are therefore encouraged to report on their homelessness strategies in their national reform programmes. in this connection, the commission has the opportunity to assess and, if necessary, to make proposals for a country-specific recommendation. i am looking forward to hearing the views of the parliament.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner andor, i do not understand what the commission has been waiting for to present this strategy, and today we would like to come out of this with a timetable, i believe, with a commitment, with a somewhat more precise idea. there was a request from the european parliament in 2011, there were requests from the committee of the regions and the economic and social committee, there was an initiative in march last year by the irish presidency: the political consensus is everything, the legal basis is also everything, and there is nothing in our resolution that breaks the principle of subsidiarity. but there's one problem above all: the european union's citizens and residents on the streets are increasingly numerous and are probably the most difficult to reach with our participatory democracy instruments. the member states have the main responsibility, but there is a great cacophony between them: we have those who provide care for all, those who provide care only for citizens of the european union, those who provide care only for those in their own country. we have member states that discriminate against, if not criminalize, people living on the streets; and there are others where we have very different behaviors region by region. there is certainly work to be done by the european commission. we've heard it before: european funds are available, good practices are available, good news is available, things we can spread. then there's the issue of mapping the problem: but is it possible that in the european union, where eurostat provides us with statistics on everything, we still have no clear idea of the contours of this problem, nor do we have any common criteria for defining it? that is why i think you should draw up this strategy quickly. if we can give a signal and start working with these citizens of the european union, who are the furthest away from the european institutions, i believe we will also be making a good step towards regaining trust in the context of the crisis in the relationship between citizens and the european institutions.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the growing situation of homelessness is a moral and political challenge to the european union, which concerns fundamental human rights and the real achievement of the fight against poverty and social exclusion, which is one of the four strategic objectives of the social fund and one of the eleven of the structural funds. the commission is also proposing to establish a european network of experts to support the implementation of the european year of the homeless. the need for data, guidelines and a new integrated approach is therefore urgent, because homelessness, which is not only a problem of individuals but also of families, is becoming a structural problem, and we must go beyond emergency solutions, including the new housing-led policy, as suggested by the european project diesis.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the aim of our meeting, of this debate, is very ambitious, commissioner, almost pompous, i would say: the strategy. but a strategy, if it is to be real, must be translated into action, into achievements, into concrete things, and it cannot be a sort of drop-off point between our good ideas, our indications and the responsibility of the member states and local authorities. so i think it is appropriate to do more, as many colleagues in my group and in all groups have asked. the homeless phenomenon is something very specific: it's changed over time, it's not endemic poverty. so we, if we want to intervene, we know what levers we have to use, because it's gotten worse with the housing shortage, with the job losses, with the separations: so it requires very specific interventions, which can be done. and it has another feature that you can work on. these are people who are able to have redemption, to regain their autonomy, their self-sufficiency if you help them. of course, if left alone, it becomes an endemic phenomenon. we therefore call for it to be done, and we call for it to be done very strongly, and you will find, commissioner, unanimous agreement in this parliament.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to introduce an element of rationality into this debate by introducing the distinction between ends and means. that any political force, any party, must have as its ultimate aim the defence of the life of any human being, the defence of the dignity of all human beings, is certain. we all agree on the principle of equality, that's for sure. so there is no doubt that we must recognize the need to defend all human beings regardless of age, health, wealth, conception and beyond, that is, from the time they qualify as human beings. i 'm speaking as a lawyer . there is not a single document, national or international, in which it is written that the conceived is not a human being. it's not written anywhere. i don't have time to prove it, but i will. so, i mean, let's try to defend the rights of all, the rights of women and the rights of children, as it is written in so many places. there's no question about the end. if someone comes to me and says, "no, there are some human beings who don't need to be defended", he can't get me to agree. but if we are discussing how, that is, how to defend ourselves in particularly complex situations where there are conflicts of rights and interests, well, here is a possibility of different assessments that must be left to local sensitivity: the principle of subsidiarity is here, and it too has a theoretical basis. a distinction must therefore be drawn between means and ends. the situation of pregnancy is a particularly delicate situation, which comes along only once in the life of each of us. of course, there is the life of a child entrusted primarily to the woman, the mother. and so it stands to reason that the means to defend this life cannot be the same as those used when life has already been born. but that's another matter. first class. the second important distinction is the clarity of the language: we're all for sexual and reproductive health, it makes sense to me. but we cannot introduce into this concept what is against health and against life. abortion is planned as a necessity. the need is removed, the need is fought against. they don't say it's part of sexual and reproductive health.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, when a fundamental right is called into question, such as the right of women to self-determination in their maternity, this is a serious and unacceptable act, regardless of the country in which it is committed. and we are faced with an attempt which is not based on the logic of subsidiarity. i read it: "we know that we have done something that has not been done in europe in the last decades. we have written the first law that reflects the opinion of the majority of european citizens. i am confident that this initiative will be taken up by other parliaments in other member states.' these are the words of alberto ruiz-gallardón, the spanish minister who promoted the law, in an interview with abc newspaper. so we are not dealing with an attempt at regression which is only consummated in spain today: we are faced with an opinion which is in danger of assuming the shape and contour of an ideological act which is in danger of overtaking the whole of europe. i think the commission must protect europe from this risk.
in writing. - the crisis has hit all european economies hard, with almost 4 million jobs lost in industry alone. industry and manufacturing are central to economic development. a revitalisation strategy is therefore urgently needed to facilitate the accessibility and use of eu funds, especially for smes, less red tape and more access to credit. i hope that the european council in march will lay the foundations for a real industrial compact, with clear commitments for a new and ambitious industrial policy strategy for growth and job creation.
in writing. − in many european countries poverty and unemployment, especially for young people, is on the rise. this problem should be addressed in a unified manner and european industry should be at the forefront in this effort. with this text we lay out the actions that should be undertaken at european and national level in order to relieve the pressure placed on europeʼs industry by the economic crisis and increase its competitiveness. industrial policy should make full use of the competition policy instruments in order to foster competitive markets.
in writing. - the processes of deindustrialisation which have affected many regions of europe in the past decades have left behind a trail of unemployment, hardship and developmental delay. the long economic crisis we are experiencing has further weakened the european industrial fabric, reducing its strength and competitiveness. what, then, is the way forward, and according to what guidelines? the european parliament expressed its opinion today: reindustrialising europe, through innovation, research and sustainability, boosting the competitiveness of european industry, protecting and enhancing its quality and high standards of social, health and safety protection, workers and consumers.
in writing. - i did not vote for the bütikofer report on the reindustrialisation of europe to promote competitiveness and sustainability because i find the text controversial and devoid of proposals that are really capable of re-oxygenating the european industrial sector.
in writing. - i supported the report because it envisages an industrial policy aimed at revitalising european industry through an approach combining competitiveness, innovation and sustainability and creating new jobs. i believe that the industrial base is the natural base on which a new growth strategy must be built. the proposal clearly underlines that europe's industrial future is linked to the rise (renaissance of industry for a sustainable europe) strategy, which aims at technological, entrepreneurial and social innovation for an industrial revolution based on innovation, modernisation and energy efficiency. the rise strategy should lead to new markets, creative business and entrepreneurial models and decent jobs, which will foster industrial renewal through economic dynamism, confidence and competitiveness. moreover, the efficient use of energy and resources is a key pillar of this strategy. in particular, the proposal calls for an 'offensive' for innovation, efficiency and sustainable technologies, the synergistic use of other national and regional funds with eu research and innovation funds, the introduction of innovative funding routes, the completion of the digital single market, the completion of the banking union and greater willingness by banks to lend to smes.
in writing. - i have followed this dossier very closely, because i was the shadow rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the internal market on this subject. i think the european commission has done a very good job, both in showing that it wants to provide a strong industrial base alongside the service economy, which at the moment seems to be the mantra of many well-meaning people, and in identifying the levers of growth in an innovative way, that is, not by choosing sectors but by applying criteria to all sectors in order to win the competition of countries that can count on lower costs of certain factors (mainly labour). i think that parliament too has been able to highlight the strengths of that communication and has been good at highlighting the less effective aspects. for these reasons i voted in favour of this measure.
in writing. − at the end of 2013, there were over 5.5 million young europeans without a job. in italy, youth unemployment reached 41.6%. the only way to give europe a future and hope is to create job opportunities for europe's young people. and to do that we cannot just think about employment measures. we need to re-industrialize the union, focusing on research and innovation, investment in training and simplification of bureaucratic procedures and access to finance. this resolution is going in the right direction: i hope that the commission and the member states will take note of this.
in writing. - on the assumption that the eu needs a strategy to overcome the economic crisis and restore momentum to the market, mr bütikofer presented a report in which he correctly argues that industry plays a key role in this and that europe's common future depends on intensive modernisation activity that boosts innovation and eliminates the development delays of weak regions. as european industry's competitors have been developing sound industrial strategies for years, the eu needs to find the right mix of strategies to improve the framework, while taking into account the different economic realities and circumstances, especially in southern europe. the current lack of credit limits investment and hinders innovation; the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. the plan will aim to combine competitiveness, sustainability and decent jobs, putting energy and resource efficiency at the heart of industrial renewal. i support this resolution, considering that industrial policy is a cross-cutting issue and that the commission must therefore clearly integrate its industrial policy into the europe 2020 strategy.
in writing. the impact of the economic and banking crisis we are experiencing in europe, and in particular the fate of the italian economy, is one of the main concerns of the entire business community. the central role of industry for economic development, competitiveness and employment must be recognised and protected in all policies and initiatives at both european and national level; a top priority must remain the preservation and revival of a strong manufacturing sector, placing open markets, access to finance, innovation, availability of raw materials, energy and resource efficiency, adequate transport, energy and telecommunications infrastructure at the heart of an overall strategy for growth and competitiveness. for this reason, i voted in favour of the own-initiative report on the reindustrialisation of europe and i share its central message, namely that the industrial future is linked to the redefinition of a european strategy aimed at the revival of industry, starting with a review of all european policies having an impact on competitiveness, starting with energy and climate, in order to reorient them in support of the creation of conditions favourable to growth and to reformulate them in a 'pilo-industrial' way, opening up to the creation of new jobs.
in writing. − this report is particularly welcome, as the eu needs a strategy to deal with the economic crisis and to give new impetus to the european industrial sector, which has suffered a loss of some 3.8 million jobs. european industry, which has so far been left in the background, is a useful tool in solving many of the crises facing the eu, offering enormous growth potential in terms of jobs, goods, services, tax revenues and pollution reduction. for example, the renewable energy and resource efficiency sectors alone could create 5 million jobs by 2020. i think the report touches on a number of important points which i should like to go over. as a southern region, i first appreciate the recognition of the need for a composite approach which takes account of the different economic and social realities in europe. southern europe is in a particularly difficult situation compared with other regional and local realities in the rest of europe. reinvestment in industry in a coordinated and organic way can be the key to reviving the european economy. but the funds available must be used wisely, with targeted action rather than random investments, which have proved inefficient in the past.
in writing. - concern about the fate of the european economy, and more particularly the italian economy, remains high among entrepreneurs who fear an increasingly nebulous future and a still distant horizon for exiting the crisis. the centrality of industry and its essential role for economic development, competitiveness and employment must therefore be adequately recognised in all policies and initiatives at both european and national level; maintaining and revitalising a strong manufacturing sector must remain a top priority, placing open markets, access to finance, innovation, availability of raw materials, energy and resource efficiency, adequate transport, energy and telecommunications infrastructure at the heart of an overall strategy for growth and competitiveness. for these reasons i voted in favour of the own-initiative report by mr bütikofer on the reindustrialisation of europe, which shares the central message that the industrial future of our continent is linked to the definition of a european strategy aimed at the re-emergence of industry.
in writing. - i fully support the appointment of sabine lautenschläger to the executive board of the ecb. a remarkable cv first of all, but i would like to emphasize how much this parliament has fought to break the glass ceiling (more than ties ...) of the ecb, supporting the objective of appointing a woman among the six members of the executive board of the ecb, since 2011 composed of only men. much work remains to be done to achieve gender balance within the european institutions and the member states. there are still many barriers to overcome to allow competent and qualified women to access positions that are difficult for them to access today. this appointment is certainly a step forward.
in writing. - at those levels, there are few people who can compete. the technicians on the executive board of the ecb are highly trained and have a great deal of experience in the field of monetary policy. i had the opportunity to meet the predecessor of sabine lautenschläger, whose nomination i voted for, at the presentation of the 'bocconian of the year' award just a few months ago. well, even as far as the new candidate is concerned, her resume and the audition she held left me with very little doubt. i only hope that the trust i placed in you was well-rewarded, but only time will tell if i'm right or wrong.
in writing. the committee on economic and monetary affairs has considered and endorsed the candidacy of sabine lautenschläger of germany, who is replacing jörg asmussen as a member of the executive board of the european central bank. since 2012, the committee chair, ms bowles, had campaigned, with a positive response in parliament, for a woman to be appointed to the ecb's executive board. the credentials of mrs lautenschläger, which have been reported today by mr bowles, demonstrate her great financial expertise. she won the commission's confidence by being questioned by the commission about the ecb's extraordinary measures to improve access to credit for businesses in the eu's peripheral countries. parliament, with my vote in favour, has therefore enthusiastically given its favourable opinion on the appointment of the first female member of the executive board of the ecb.
in writing. - i have approved this proposal together with my colleagues from the epp, to help the french overseas departments, which are disadvantaged by their great distance, insularity, small size, difficult topographical and climatic conditions and economic dependence on certain products, in particular the cane-sugar-rum value chain, factors whose persistence and accumulation seriously damage their development. the european commission, in order to facilitate the economic recovery of these areas, has proposed to allow france, for the period 2014-2020, to apply a reduced rate of excise duty and vss of up to 50% of their normal rates, without, however, the cumulative reduction of excise duty and vss exceeding 50% of the total rate for alcohol established pursuant to article 3 of directive 92/84/ec.
in writing. - i did not intend to support the hubner report in my vote, which calls for france to be allowed to apply reduced rates of excise duty on certain 'traditional' rum produced in guadeloupe, french guiana and martinique, as i believe that the proposed derogation period is too long and risks distorting the market.
in writing. - i am rather puzzled whenever people talk about 'derogation', 'exception' or similar terms. in this particular case, it is a question of granting preferential conditions to an agricultural product (in french, we literally call it 'agricultural' rum, because it is produced directly from sugar cane and not from molasses, which is the waste of sugar production, such as the so-called industrial waste). and such conditions would be justified only by the distance of the production areas from the rest of the country to which they belong. well, that doesn't sound good enough to me. however, considering that these are regions surrounded by developing countries, i have broader geopolitical considerations and i think it is worth considering the idea of showing the surrounding countries how much prosperity the eu can provide. i therefore voted in favour, trusting that the report which france will have to submit during the next parliamentary term will be a moment for serious reflection on the advisability of maintaining this form of welfare state.
in writing. - i have no objection to supporting a typical territory and production, provided that it does not distort the internal market of the european union. we are starting from this premise that the tax advantage we are giving french rum from guadeloupe, guyana, martinique and réunion must not penalise other producers who would rightly feel that they are in a subordinate position. that said, if the aid continues to be proportionate to the needs of those territories and adequately supports their economy, i cannot oppose this type of aid.
in writing. - france is authorized to apply a reduced rate of excise duty to 'traditional' rum produced in its overseas departments and marketed on the mainland to compensate for the competitive disadvantage caused to producers in the french overseas departments (fod) by their great distance, difficult topographical and climatic conditions and economic dependence on certain products in the cane-sugar-rum chain. on 12 march 2013, the french authorities asked the commission to submit a proposal for a council decision extending the reduction, under the same conditions, for a further seven years. the commission, with a report by mr hübner, proposed in parliament to allow france to apply a reduced rate of excise duty for the period 2014-2020, provided that france prepares by 31 july 2017 an interim report in order to assess whether the reasons justifying the granting of the tax derogation still apply and whether the tax advantage granted continues to be proportionate, but could instead be phased out until the end of the period. given the urgency of this measure and the aim of stimulating and protecting the traditional economy of the outermost regions, i see no reason to vote against it.
in writing. − france has a derogation, valid until 31 december 2013, which allows it to apply a reduced rate of excise duty, which may be lower than the minimum rate of excise duty laid down by community law, to 'traditional' rum produced in its overseas departments and marketed in mainland france. i believe that the matter is rather urgent from a temporal point of view and also has significant socioeconomic repercussions on the local realities of the outermost regions, since the objective of the measure is to compensate for the competitive disadvantage caused to these regions by their great distance, small area and topographical and climatic conditions, as well as the dependence of their economies on the cane-sugar-rum value chain. i support this extension because i have a particular concern for the welfare of small local producers and also because a guarantee against any anti-competitive practices is offered by the mid-term evaluation report that france will have to draw up by 31 july 2017. the report will make it possible to assess whether the reasons justifying this tax scheme are still valid and to provide information on the marketing costs, allowing, if necessary, the progressive elimination of the derogation.
in writing. - the rules in force authorise france to apply to traditional rum produced in its overseas departments and sold in mainland france an excise duty reduction which may be lower than the minimum excise duty rate laid down by directive 92/84, but not more than 50% of the standard national excise duty on alcohol. that derogation expired on 31 december 2013 and the transalpine authorities have therefore requested the commission to submit a proposal for a council decision extending the derogation until 31 december 2020 under the same conditions. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. - i agree with the positions taken in this report: that's why i voted for you.
in writing. − immunity is not a personal privilege but a guarantee of the independence and integrity of parliament as an institution and of its members. i believe that those who make mistakes pay for them and parliament has never failed to uphold its responsibilities, defending those who deserve to be defended and leaving the judiciary the space it deserves in doubtful cases. but there are some points which are not clear, and that is why parliament's rules of procedure have to regulate the matter in a way which is legally unimpeachable and sufficiently detailed to safeguard the prestige of this institution in which, let us not forget, the citizens of the union are directly represented.
in writing. - following a request from the legal affairs committee for amendment of the rules of procedure concerning the application of the rules on the immunity of members, the afco committee decided to submit this report, which reformulates certain articles in order to make its structure more consistent and its substance in line with recent case law and the practice of the committee responsible. parliamentary immunity is intended to guarantee the independence and integrity of parliament as such and of its members.
in writing. - i support the position in the resolution, calling on the council to reject the commission's proposal to market this new gmo variant of maize, at least until there are better risk assessment methods than the current ones.
in writing. − i believe that the eu must start to have a coherent, informed and forward-looking policy on the authorisation of gmos for cultivation. at the moment, the picture is quite varied: the european legislation leaves it to the member states to decide, but we have a european authority to decide (the efsa) and, above all, we have divided the decision into two parts, one on environmental effects and the other on the effects of food on humans. so it turns out that sometimes we let a man eat what we don't want the insects to eat so as not to disturb the ecosystem. so we import products that put our companies out of business and we don't allow them to grow the same products. in protest at this incoherent attitude, i voted against this resolution.
in writing. − the genetically modified maize 'pioneer 1507' should not be placed on the market for cultivation, because its altered pollen could harm the animal ecosystem in which it would be found. we cannot afford, in the interests of all, to propose or renew the authorization of any gmo organism until the risk assessment methods have been greatly improved.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of this resolution because it is widely established that the genetically modified maize 'pioneer 1507' should not be marketed for cultivation at all, because of its insect-resistant pollen which could harm butterflies and moths, as also confirmed by the european food safety authority. this variety is also resistant to the herbicide glufosinate, which is considered toxic for reproduction in europe and therefore not authorised beyond 2017. the methods of assessing the risks of genetically modified products do not yet allow us to guarantee the safety of these products for human health and the ecosystem, particularly in the long term. my opposition to the marketing of gm products is a clear response to the fears of a large part of the european public, who still have many fears about genetically modified food. my vote is a clear call to the council to reject the commission's proposal and to the commission to refrain from proposing new varieties of gmos and from renewing previous authorizations until the risk assessment methods have been substantially improved.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution, which is intended to remind parliament of the importance of freedom of movement and its value as a fundamental right recognised in the european union. the danger of racism and xenophobia must be averted by all means and all the institutional actors must work to ensure that in this delicate phase of the economic and social crisis which has struck our europe, excesses and judgments which are too radical and rigorous are avoided and that a balanced and moderate attitude is always maintained in dealing with certain sensitive and sensitive issues, such as immigration or the protection of foreigners.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on eu citizenship for sale because the measures recently adopted in malta risk undermining the concept of european citizenship. while we are aware that residence and citizenship are matters for the member states, there is no doubt that there are certain inalienable rights, as citizenship in one member state entails the recognition of rights and duties in all 28 member states. just as there is talk of migrants in the mediterranean, who reach the sicilian coast in search of a better life and encounter great difficulties, the commodification of european citizenship is unacceptable. the rights conferred by european citizenship cannot be bought or sold at any price. the creation of attractive investment conditions must not compromise the european values and spirit, which are based on human dignity and the link with a given territory.
in writing. - as of 1 january this year, the last transitional barriers to the free movement of bulgarian and romanian workers within the union have been removed, effectively completing a process which had been under way for some time. the fear in some member states that this last provision will be dropped is a good indication of the reality of things, which is unfortunately quite different from what the usual well-meaning people want to portray. the countries that make up the european union are very different from each other in many respects, especially economic and social: it is obvious that a citizen who earns 500 euros a month in his own country would welcome the prospect of moving to earn twice or three times that amount and benefit from a very different social security system. there are many cases of so-called 'tourism for profit', and i also tabled a question on this subject with some colleagues from my group, but it was not accepted: our social security and health care systems are collapsing, and they certainly cannot bear the further, devastating impact of foreign nationals who want to exploit this opportunity. if certain safeguards are not in place, free movement can thus be a dangerous boomerang, threatening to undermine peaceful coexistence.
in writing. − i am voting in favour of the european parliament resolution of 16 january 2014 on respect for the fundamental right of free movement within the eu. the right to free movement, in addition to being one of the four fundamental freedoms of the union, is an essential element of european integration directly linked to citizenship of the union. the benefits of the free movement of eu mobile workers for the development of the host country are visible across europe, particularly in the health, agriculture and construction sectors; mobile workers are net contributors to the economies and budgets of host countries. according to a study by the european commission, mobile workers pay more into the host country's budget in the form of taxes and social security contributions than they receive in benefits. for these reasons i support the position taken by some european leaders who are calling for changes and restrictions to the free movement of citizens and i reject completely any proposal to set a ceiling on the number of eu migrants. in voting in favour of this resolution, i therefore call on the commission and the member states to ensure that union law is strictly applied, so as to ensure that all eu workers enjoy equal treatment and are not discriminated against.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this proposal because i believe that each member state must respect the treaties and the law of the union, in particular with regard to the four fundamental freedoms, the pillars on which the single market is based. nevertheless, i believe that there are indeed cases where national social systems are the victims of fraudulent behaviour by european citizens who want to enjoy public benefits through so-called 'welfare tourism'. however, breaking the word given by a government and a nation cannot be considered the right solution to the problem. i therefore support the general message of this resolution. european citizens have the right to equal treatment and non-discrimination in access to employment, employment and working conditions, pay, dismissal and social and tax benefits, thus ensuring fair competition between businesses. it is the task of the national supervisory authorities to check for fraud against welfare systems and to take action against those found guilty. finally, i share the call to tackle the problem at its root by committing ourselves to combating poverty-driven migration within the eu.
in writing. - i agree with the positions taken in the text and find it very balanced, which is why i voted in favour of it.
in writing. the least agreeable aspect of this new maltese law is that it gives a venal value to citizenship. in a consumer society, hitting the big pillars only weakens even more the certainties that govern our being together. putting a price on citizenship is to undermine its value. its acquisition depends on values that are not available, such as belonging to a territory, a community, its traditions and respect for its culture. it is equally wrong and dangerous to yield to the temptation to solve economic problems by selling off values. i am appalled by the idea that the maltese government is planning to raise €30 million from the sale of citizenship, which would help the country to close the deficit. the economic and financial crisis and the shortage of public resources in national budgets must be tackled and solved by economic policies, by boosting employment, by investments, by the efficient use of european funding and not by selling off assets. in addition, policies aimed at creating social integration between foreigners and citizens should be encouraged and not follow up on policies that grant citizenship to those who can afford it but who have no 'real' connection to the community and territory of which they become citizens.
in writing. − european citizenship is characterised by its dual nature and therefore the actions of each member state concerning the procedures for obtaining national citizenship have direct consequences for each citizen. i believe that the maltese government's decision to introduce a programme of the virtual sale of maltese citizenship is wrong, and that is why i voted in favour of the resolution.
in writing. - i am not in any way prepared to intervene in the internal affairs of a country: but this is a little bit different, because it affects other countries. i do not want to judge whether malta's behaviour in selling its citizenship for a high price is morally ethical, but i think it is very disrespectful to the other countries of the union, because it is also a matter of selling european citizenship at the same time, with all the rights and obligations that this entails, without any criteria other than that of a generous offer. what makes me think further is that malta is the one state which systematically rejects all immigrants arriving by sea, forcing italy to take care of them alone. they are probably right to act as they see fit, that is, in their own interests, but they cannot help thinking that they have freely chosen to join the eu and now they must take responsibility for it. in any case, this is yet another example of how this europe is all over the map, where the smartest always somehow manage to be right: perhaps if we all followed the example of malta, the situation would change.
in writing. - european citizenship cannot and must not come at a "price". some european countries have, on the other hand, established schemes on their territory which allow people to sell their nationality and thus also their european citizenship. this practice must be checked and if necessary stopped in order to preserve the common values of the union and to avoid that over time the mutual trust on which the eu is based may be undermined.
in writing. - i have decided to support this resolution because it is about defending one of the greatest achievements of the union, european citizenship. unfortunately, in some member states there are situations where eu citizenship is sold directly or indirectly to third-country nationals, mostly linked to an economic return in the form of investment in that country, even though the citizens in question do not meet any residence requirement. these mechanisms have a negative impact on european citizens, on the member states and on the union as a whole, since they undermine mutual trust between states, risk being the forerunners of market distortions and, last but not least, they are detrimental to the rights of european citizens deriving from citizenship, by undermining the very essence of it. i fully understand that the letter of the treaties states that citizenship is a matter for the exclusive competence of the member states, but in voting this resolution i feel obliged to join the chorus of voices calling on the commission to evaluate the various national citizenship programmes and to formulate guidelines to steer the action of the states towards european values and law.
in writing. - the belgrade european integration process saw the start of screening on important negotiating chapters such as those on the judiciary and fundamental rights and on justice, freedom and security, together with the ad hoc negotiating chapter on normalisation with pristina, at the end of september. in this respect, the determination and commitment shown by both serbian and kosovar governments to reach the historic agreement of 19 april and its progressive implementation are to be commended. a dialogue, facilitated by the eu, which has achieved unprecedented results and could become a model for the whole region in the future. but i abstained in the vote because i believe that the path of integration is still incomplete and far from the objectives.
in writing. - i do not share the positions taken in the resolution analysing the progress made by serbia as a pre-accession country, which is why i did not support the text with my vote.
in writing. - i welcome the continuation of the negotiations with serbia for accession to the european union, despite the misgivings of many citizens. i believe that the balkans must all be part of the european union sooner or later, in order to identify the eu as much as possible with europe. certainly serbia, like the other neighbouring countries, has a long way to go before it becomes part of our project. but the very fact of committing to adaptation is, in my view, a great step forward that deserves respect and incentives to continue. the european commission has identified the areas where action is to be given priority and i hope that our support will be sufficient to make serbia in a short time a country suitable for joining the other member states on comparable terms.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because i was very impressed by the commitment shown by the serbian government to the process of european integration through a series of socioeconomic reforms towards the obligations of future membership. serbia has shown that it has a real will to join the european project and has done so in a number of ways. first of all, i can only welcome the first agreement on the principles of normalization of relations between serbia and kosovo, which is a historic moment and a great achievement for the whole of europe, but which still requires further steps towards full recognition of kosovo's borders. secondly, my vote expresses my appreciation for the 2013-2018 judicial reform plan based on the key principles of independence, impartiality, competence, quality of the judicial system and freedom from political interference and corruption. finally, i would like to welcome the ratification by serbia of the main ilo conventions on workers' rights and the revised european social charter, but i recognize that the belgrade government must take further steps to bring itself into line with european standards.
mr president, i voted in favour of this resolution because it recognises the progress made by kosovo in recent months but, above all, it indicates in a very, very clear and precise way the way forward for the process of european integration. the historic agreement with serbia, the start of negotiations for a stabilisation agreement, the successful conduct of the local elections last november, are all stages in an unprecedented process which could become a model for the whole region in the future. it is now essential that kosovo carries out the necessary reforms, such as those in the judiciary and the electoral law, and that it continues to make progress in the normalisation of relations with its neighbours. the council, for its part, should adopt as soon as possible the necessary decisions to enable kosovo to participate in european programmes, which can be a decisive incentive to give more force to the process of integration and the process of stabilization in the entire western balkans region.
in writing. - we have reached a fundamental turning point in the stabilisation process in the western balkans. as with serbia, a similar effort is required in kosovo, since constructive cooperation between the two countries is necessary for the successful continuation of their respective integration processes. with regard to the saa, negotiations with the kosovar authorities are under way and the aim is to conclude them by next spring. the progress made in kosovo last year with its first local elections is noteworthy. i have, however, abstained from voting because i believe that the integration process is still incomplete and far from the objectives.
in writing. − i do not share the positions taken in the resolution analysing the progress made by kosovo in 2012 as a pre-accession country, which is why i did not support the text with my vote.
in writing. − kosovo is a small but complex state: the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union, a political union of the peoples of europe, a political union of the peoples of europe, a political union of the peoples of europe, a political union of the peoples of europe, a political union of the peoples of europe, a political union of the peoples of europe, a political union of the peoples of europe, a political union of the peoples of europe, a political union of the peoples of europe, a political union of the peoples of europe, a political union of the peoples of europe. these are events which take many years to overcome, to weaken hatred and to put an end to rivalry, to overcome prejudice and to finally build a society oriented towards individual and collective well-being. however, this process does not happen automatically but must be channelled, encouraged, managed, and i am pleased to see that the photograph taken at the end of each year shows an image that inspires confidence and optimism. the resolution, read in this spirit, has my full approval.
in writing. - as i have already pointed out with regard to free movement, there are still too many disparities between the various member states within the european union, and this is certainly a major obstacle to the success of an integration process. all the economic, political, social and environmental indicators tell us that kosovo is far from meeting the minimum acceptable standards for aspiring to join the union, and i would like to make this clear to everyone: in 2004, the commission, led by our former president of the council, romano prodi, wanted to force its hand to bring together 10 countries at once, more as a political choice than following logical criteria. it has since been followed by bulgaria, romania and, more recently, croatia, and we are all seeing the results. we have had many people from these countries come to us, most of them in search of honest work, but many have ended up in the ranks of the criminal underworld and the crisis has made the situation even worse. on the other hand, many of our companies have wanted to relocate to these countries, where they can get better tax treatment and better labour costs, creating further unemployment in our territories. all this must be taken into account.
in writing. - kosovo is making significant progress in the integration process and this goodwill can only be recognised and rewarded by the vote in favour of this resolution. the country is still not free of serious problems, especially the continuing tension in the northern areas of mitrovica and zvečan, due to the clashes between ethnic serbs and albanians. however, enormous progress was made in kosovo's first local elections, which were conducted in an orderly manner and resulted in the election of the first female mayor in kosovo's history. a factor of continued concern, and one which is extensively explored in this resolution, is the continued rampant corruption and the difficulties in fighting organised crime. i therefore welcome the call to the kosovar authorities to maintain and strengthen cooperation with the eulex mission, which is struggling to combat these two despicable phenomena on its own. finally, although still at an early stage, i welcome the start of the process of privatisation of kosovo's public assets, starting with the kosovo post and telecommunications company (ptk), alongside the first improvements in the economic environment in which small and mediumsized enterprises operate.
in writing. − i found the report on iceland's progress in 2012 and the post-election outlook unclear in many of its passages and therefore decided to abstain.
in writing. - from an economic point of view, iceland is often cited as an example of a state which has been able to react to the economic crisis and to rebel against the overpowering power of the banks. i do not agree with that, and this resolution, which is in line with my ideas, shows that. after the recovery, there was an election round in which the political direction changed and the new government showed anti-europeanist positions despite the majority of voters wanting to get closer to the eu. the reluctance to hold a referendum on the subject is proof of this. i hope that political developments will now bring this state, which would not make much difference to our economy given the small size of its population and its rather marginal economic contribution to our economic and social system, closer together to realize the idea of a european union that is increasingly aligned with europe, so that it can deal on an equal footing with the other major regional organisations on the planet.
in writing. − iceland has made good progress in the eu accession process to date, closing 11 of the 27 negotiating chapters open with the eu institutions. the icelandic authorities have not yet adopted a comprehensive strategy for the implementation of the acquis communautaire. the icelandic authorities have not provided any evidence that the aid is compatible with the internal market. the european parliament has already expressed its concern about the situation in the former yugoslavia and the situation in the former yugoslavia, and has called for the immediate release of all political prisoners.
in writing. - after the agreement reached between the main political groups to table a single resolution, i thought it important to vote in favour of this text to send a signal of unity from the european parliament in the face of a real tragedy in sudan. i think of the war, the dead, the prisoners, the effect that these dramatic events have on the psyche, as well as on the body, of the population. i wonder how long the trail of violence of these months will last. and i can only join the chorus of those who are calling for an end to hostilities and for us to sit around a table to discuss and seek a solution in a civilised manner. it is 2014 and humanity can no longer stand by and watch behavior like that in south sudan. on the one hand i feel sorry for the victims, on the other hand i have the only power i have as a member of the european parliament: i ask that i be returned within the bounds of reason.
in writing. − the situation in south sudan is in a new downward phase in which ethnic violence is playing an increasingly significant role, particularly following the armed conflicts that erupted last december following an attempted coup d'état. to date, it is estimated that over three million people are in need of humanitarian assistance, and the number is expected to grow. i fully share the concerns expressed in the resolution about the renewed escalation of violence in south sudan, which has serious humanitarian, political and economic consequences and repercussions on a global scale. i hope that the negotiations under the aegis of igad in addis ababa will be successful and i encourage all parties and neighbouring countries to work towards a peaceful settlement of all disputes in order to ensure security, stability and growth in the horn of africa region. i very much welcome the decision of the african union peace and security council to establish a commission on human rights violations, but on the contrary i am very disappointed by the high representative's choice to terminate the mandate of the eu special representative for sudan/south sudan, given the grave situation and the consequences for european security.
in writing. - i found the text to be contradictory in many parts, and therefore abstained.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution which is intended to encourage member states, regional and national authorities to devise an appropriate strategy to deal with the problem of homelessness. this is one of our most important objectives, namely the fight against poverty. it will be useful if the resources allocated to the european social fund are better used by the regional authorities, especially to ensure that everyone has a place to live and the minimum conditions for a decent life.
in writing. - the economic crisis has led to a significant increase in the number of homeless people across europe in recent years, and this is perhaps one of the most terrible consequences of this difficult situation from which we are struggling to emerge. to deal with such a condition, of exceptional gravity, extraordinary measures are needed, that is, outside the normal rules and logic. i have already asked the european commission in the past to promote a joint initiative which would provide for an agreement with credit institutions which would guarantee, in the event of particularly unfavourable conditions, a freeze on bank mortgages on houses, on the model of what had already been proposed in spain. i believe that the interests of families and individuals must come before those of banking institutions, because it is not acceptable to throw people out on the street just because they are momentarily in difficulty with mortgage payments. i am very sorry that the house today rejected an amendment which went exactly in that direction, namely a moratorium on evictions for landlords in difficulty: it is absolutely useless to talk about abstract arguments against this or that problem, if then concrete measures to solve it are not even considered.
in writing. − the availability of affordable housing and popular housing is a growing problem in many eu member states. the problem is particularly acute when one considers that, as a result of the economic and financial crisis, the eu has about 26 million unemployed citizens, 24.2% of the population at risk of poverty and about 410 000 homeless people. the austerity measures of some governments, despite strong opposition from some political forces, have exacerbated this situation, leading to a reduction in wages, an increase in the tax burden and unemployment. for these reasons i have decided to base this complaint on a reckless policy which has lost sight of the welfare of the european citizens. i also support it because the right to housing affects other rights, including political and social rights, and therefore must be guaranteed to all european citizens. to this end, i agree with the guidelines identified in the resolution, namely the creation of networks of decent and adequate shelters; the adoption of rules against property speculation; the commission has also received comments from the united kingdom on the application of the state aid rules to the aid scheme for the construction of the new airport in the united kingdom.
declaration on the resumption of the european parliament session adjourned on thursday 16 january 2014
the agenda includes the report by mr bernhard rapkay on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on promoting the free movement of citizens and businesses by simplifying the acceptance of certain public documents in the european union and amending regulation (eu) no 2014/2012 (com (2013) 0228 c7-0111/2013 2013/0119 (cod).
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the report which has been presented to us is an excellent report because it tackles and solves some of the most sensitive problems which people in this part of the world are facing on a daily basis today. freedom of movement is called into question, it is hindered when bureaucracy puts its needs in contrast with those of people who, on the other hand, have to live in sometimes difficult, uncomfortable conditions every day, which are linked to the fact that they live in one country having been born in another, or that they have histories, relationships, even family ones, much more complex than those that were invaded in the past. so, to lighten the bureaucracy, to simplify these processes is very important to give europe a boost. we must ensure that european citizens feel part of a dream and not victims of a bureaucracy that stifles them and makes them experience the birth of the european union no longer as an extraordinary opportunity for growth and placement in the global world, but even as a painful, tiring and difficult condition to bear every day. this is why it has been so important to reduce red tape and shift the burden of costs from citizens to administrations. the citizens, in their capacity as users of public services, must feel rewarded, they must feel free and we have done everything necessary to make that happen. of course, the individual points could have been resolved in one way rather than another, the mediations could have been different from those which were presented, but in my view what counts is the whole of the proposal, and the whole is largely positive, it goes in the right direction, it can give the european union the condition that is missing so that the citizens can live it again for what has been from the beginning an extraordinary dream and not a burden or a constraint.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to draw the commissioner's attention to two negative points which i hope will be corrected in the vote and which concern mr karim's report. there is this reinforcement of the red card which threatens to distort the idea of subsidiarity, we cannot go from one extreme to the other. the risk is that national states and their parliaments will once again be the exclusive owners of many rules which should instead be managed through the joint committee of the european parliament and the european institutions. the second theme concerns the fundamental rights of working people. i have nothing to add to that. i would like to emphasize one point. there is an instrumental use of the size of the small and medium-sized enterprise. when we talk about people and their fundamental rights, it does not matter whether they work in a small or a large company. to make distinctions on this matter is to introduce divisions among people without any justification.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the shirt i am wearing is the symbol of two brothers suffering from muscular dystrophy, the biviano brothers, who have been living in a tent outside montecitorio in rome for seven months in protest, demanding to be treated with professor vannoni's stamina method. i immediately took an interest in the matter, including the european commission, which acted with good sense, confirming the possibility for member states to use the stamps even without specific authorization. this was to clear the field of detractors, that is, those who argued that europe should ban these practices. it is compassionate care, the only source of relief and improvement for the sick who use it. i 've met several patients and their families: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. i want to bring the hope of these people to europe. getting treatment is their right, not a crime. no more polemics and personal attacks, let's think about their well-being and health.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i do not think that anyone in this house is in favour of any form of discrimination, and i think that should also apply to so-called positive discrimination, which is and remains discrimination and therefore unacceptable. i honestly don't see why gays, lesbians or transgender people should be granted special and specific rights. the right to equality and equal treatment must apply to all without any discrimination, either one way or the other. this report is also a clear violation of national prerogatives, indicating that the commission should even make proposals on the mutual recognition of same-sex marriages a priority. as i have already emphasized many times, marriage is only between two people of different sex, for the purpose of procreation, as the same etymological origin of the word says. i therefore call on all those who are against all discrimination to vote tomorrow in favour of the alternative proposal which i have tabled on behalf of the efd group and which seeks to guarantee the rights of all, not just those of the powerful homosexual lobby, which is very active and present in this parliament.
member of the commission. - madam president, i would like to thank you and the rapporteur, mr zwiefka, for the report on the eu justice scoreboard. i thank parliament for its support for the commissionʼs efforts to take this exercise forward. as the report points out, effective civil, commercial and administrative justice is fundamental to the business environment. it is also fundamental to the effective implementation of eu law everywhere in europe and helps foster mutual trust in the european justice area. this is why improving the quality, independence and efficiency of justice systems has become part of the eu-wide priorities in the european semester. in 2013, 10 member states were issued with recommendations on improving their justice systems. these recommendations were made by the commission on the basis, notably, of the findings of the first justice scoreboard, and were endorsed by the member states. this exercise is not a beauty contest. the aim of the eu justice scoreboard is to provide objective, reliable and comparable data on the quality, independence and efficiency of the national justice systems. to be credible, this exercise needs to ensure equality of treatment between all member states. that is why we look at all member states from the same perspective. i can assure you that the commission is impartial and pays particular attention to respecting fully the rich and varied legal traditions in europe. i note with interest your recommendations for the future development of the justice scoreboard. it is indeed an evolving tool. i am confident that we will improve the scoreboard gradually, but it is important to ensure that any developments are based on reliable information. one of the challenges for this exercise is the access to data. member states have those data in their administrations. i therefore fully support parliment’s call to the member states to collect the relevant data and make them available to the commission. in this context, and in order to enhance the information flow, we have asked member states to designate two contact points at expert level, one from the ministry of justice and one from the judiciary. the first meeting of these contact persons took place in december, to put in place good practices on data collection. the justice scoreboard will continue to be fed by a plurality of sources. our cooperation with the european commission for the efficiency of justice will continue in 2014. it remains essential, however, that member states themselves make this cooperation possible by providing timely and good-quality data. with parliamentʼs support, future annual justice scoreboards will continue to assist member states in improving their justice systems, for the benefit of citizens and businesses everywhere in europe.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday 4 february 2014. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the report by elisabeth schroedter, on behalf of the committee on regional development, on the local and regional consequences of the development of smart grids (2013/2128 ((ini)) (a7-0019/2014).
member of the commission. - president, honourable members, i would like to thank the rapporteurs, ms schroedter and also ms ulvskog, for the very thorough work on this report and the suggestions on cohesion policy investment in smart grids. the commission is already working along the lines of several of the main recommendations of the report. going beyond the 20-20-20 target poses a serious challenge which will require further transformation of the energy system, continuous research and innovation and radically novel solutions. as you know, the new cohesion policy period just starting now is more result-oriented and follows a more targeted approach, focusing on fewer priorities and translating the euro 2020 strategy into concrete investment in member states and regions. in this context, cohesion policy is placing even further emphasis on supporting investment linked to the energy targets of the eu. for the period 2014-2020, there will be a significant concentration of efforts on supporting the shift towards a low-carbon economy in all sectors – that is a large focus in renewable energy, energy efficiency and smart grids at the distribution level, as well as sustainable urban mobility and research and innovation in these areas. this will lead to significantly increased amounts for cohesion policy, sustainable energy investments over 2014-2020, representing more than a doubling of the current amount. one investment area will be smart grids, which will be the backbone of the future decarbonised power system. they will enable improved energy efficiency and the integration of vast amounts of renewable energy. the eu is still in the early stages of the actual deployment of smart grids. despite a couple of good examples, there is a considerable gap between actual and optimal investments in europe, which can only be partly explained by the current economic downturn. investors are still struggling to find the optimum model for sharing costs and benefits along the value chain. there are also still some uncertainties regarding whether consumers will embrace these new technologies, how to choose cost-effective technologies and which technical standards should apply to smart grids in the future. public investments in local and regional smart grid pilot projects will substantially help to remove existing technical and non-technical uncertainties associated with the full deployment at national and eu level. in this context, the development of urban sustainable energy action plans and mobility action plans should be encouraged and supported as part of broader low-carbon and urban development strategies. together with the other actors and stakeholders, regions and cities can work to find local tailored solutions, as the covenant of mayors has clearly illustrated. the use of financial instruments for sustainable energy investments, in particular in the urban context, will be further encouraged. they represent a resource-efficient way of deploying cohesion policy resources in the pursuit of the europe 2020 objectives. in addition to cohesion policy investment in smart grids – which we will thus focus on the distribution level – smart grids may also have access to financial support from the connecting europe facility under which an amount of almost eur 6 billion will be made available for improving the trans-european energy infrastructure for the period 2014-2020. in 2012, the commission started the process of identification of potential smart grid projects of common interest in the context of the smart grids task force. such projects need to involve at least two member states. the assessment of two smart grid projects, green-me, which is france and italy, and the north atlantic green zone, uk and ireland, has been concluded positively. both projects are now on the list of projects of common interest and could potentially benefit from support from the connecting europe facility. to maximise european added value, member states and the commission have to ensure that cohesion policy interventions are planned in close cooperation with the support provided from the connecting europe facility, so as to ensure complementarity, avoid duplication of efforts and ensure the optimal linkage of different types of infrastructure at local, regional and national level, as well as across the union. the horizon 2020 research and innovation programme also includes activities to facilitate the development of smart grids. the report mentions several challenges which must be addressed in order to achieve a smarter energy system in the eu regions, and in particular regulatory and legal challenges and challenges linked to data protection and privacy. the commission agrees on the need for consumers to have access and power of decision over the use of their metering and personal data, and for lifting any concerns for data protection and privacy in smart grid environments. in this respect, the commission has already given due attention to the subject in its recommendation on preparations for the roll-out of smart metering systems, setting clear guidelines for member states on data protection, privacy and security on the preparation for the smart metering roll-out. moreover, the commission is currently working with smart grid stakeholders on the development of a data protection impact assessment template and on best available techniques for smart metering and appropriate security measures for the smart grid. the commission has also proposed the reform of the existing data protection legislation, striving to achieve maximum protection with minimum red tape. the roll-out of smart metering and smart grid systems indeed has regulatory implications, for both energy and telecommunications sectors, and calls for a reflection on viable market options. the respective discussion was initiated in the 2012 internal energy market communication, and this will be a focus area for the commission in the next months. in shaping this new open, competitive and transparent retail market, we need to incentivise network operators to invest in new technologies and lay out clear roles and responsibilities for market actors; facilitate the access for new entrants and new business opportunities. finally, the commission recognises that timely development of standards is crucial for the market uptake of smart grid-related technology and has therefore issued specific mandates in recent years to all three european standardisation organisations. the commission has been closely following and coordinating the related activities via the smart grid task force. the report on local and regional consequences of smart grids is indeed very timely. it stresses the importance of networking between regions and smart energy systems and the importance of sharing knowledge in this area. the commission will continue to facilitate cooperation between regions and to support the exchange of experience and good practices in the area of sustainable energy.
- this discussion is over. the vote will take place on tuesday 4 february 2014. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the environment and the environment protection, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the environment and the environment.
i have to say, madam president, small farms in agriculture are important, and i thank mr siekierski for presenting this report. the common agricultural policy certainly still pays too little attention to small farms. and even after this reform, which we have just decided on, it will still be the case that a quarter of the largest farms will receive three quarters of the premiums in the first pillar of the common agricultural policy. and i think that's an unfair distribution. it is also not right to equate small farms with subsistence farming. i come from a region where there are many small farms, but these small farms are normally involved in the market, producing products which are then sold throughout italy and europe, because these farms are organised in cooperatives and producer organisations and are therefore successful on the market. we should also take account of this aspect of small farms and give special support to this association of small farms!
member of the commission. - madam president, we thank parliament for this report on the future of small agricultural holdings. small farms certainly do play an important role in our agricultural sector and rural areas as they create employment, contribute to dynamic rural communities and deliver public goods. this is why the new common agricultural policy (cap) that was approved at the end of last year clearly pays special attention to the problems of small farmers. first let me speak about the first pillar. the new cap offers the member states the possibility of applying a specific support scheme for small farmers: this scheme will replace all direct payments to small farmers with a lump-sum payment. this new payment will reduce costs and the administrative burden for small farmers by easing obligations relating to applications for support, to cross-compliance and to controls. additionally, member states may also tilt payments towards smaller holdings with the new ‘redistributive payment’ which gives a supplementary payment for the first hectares of the holdings. with the new cap, we are also encouraging cooperation among farmers with a new legal framework to facilitate the recognition of producer organisations and support financially their creation. certainly, farmers should work and sell together and thereby gain scale, reduce costs and access the market. cooperation amongst them will be a key step in adapting to the changing economic environment. secondly, on rural development, member states can decide to include some specific actions for small farmers within their rural development programmes. there is, for instance, the possibility of including a thematic sub-programme for small farms or additional business start-up aid for the development of small farms. there is also the possibility of granting payments addressed to those farmers eligible for the small farmers scheme who permanently transfer their holding to another farmer. furthermore, small farmers can benefit from the support for investment in the creation and development of non-agricultural activities, investment in physical assets, participation in quality schemes, and many other actions under rural development. finally, the new rural development policy will also offer many possibilities for helping farmers to sell their products directly to consumers, or at least to become involved in short supply chains and ‘local’ markets. with this set of complementary instruments, we are giving the member states the possibility of supporting modernisation and the creation of added value by small farmers, as well as facilitating their access to the market. we are encouraging member states to exploit all these possibilities in order to support, to their very best, these key beneficiaries of the cap.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday 4 february 2014. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the report by pablo arias echeverría, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on an integrated parcel delivery market for the growth of e-commerce in the eu (2013/2043(ini)) (a7-0024/2014).
member of the commission. - madam president, on behalf of my colleague michel barnier, let me first of all thank the rapporteur mr arias echeverría and the committee on the internal market and consumer protection (imco) for their valuable contribution to our common action for the development of the digital single market in europe. just two years ago, the commission launched an ambitious action plan on e-commerce and online services. its objectives are to adapt the off-line environment to evolving on-line realities, and to foster on-line opportunities for consumers and service providers. sixteen actions were tabled by the commission, in many sectors – e.g. modernisation of electronic payment services, net neutrality and copyright. one other important initiative concerned parcels delivery. these activities have a direct impact on our daily lives as consumers or entrepreneurs. delivery is critical to facilitating e-commerce trade. it is a key element for building trust between sellers and buyers. eu consumers increasingly look for online purchases, notably across borders. however, around 45% of consumers declare that they worry about the delivery in cross-border transactions. for e-retailers, and most notably smes, the performance and affordability of the delivery system is a key driver of their business model. yet more than 50% of them consider cross-border delivery to be an obstacle. in short, to further promote the growth of e-commerce, we have to make sure that the off-line structure on which it is built works at its best. we therefore need a delivery system that meets the expectations of both consumers and smes; a delivery system that works smoothly to facilitate their daily lives and businesses; a delivery system that will generate greater confidence in e-commerce. a broad consensus emerged among all parties concerned on the issues identified and on the urgent need to address them, after the public consultation launched at the end of 2012. on that basis, and considering the reflexions set out in parliament’s report, the commission adopted a roadmap in december 2013. this roadmap sets out further actions to address the delivery problems and challenges faced by consumers and e-retailers. the roadmap attributes specific tasks and roles to the various stakeholders – delivery operators, e-retailers and member states – via their regulatory and competition authorities. those actions are focusing on three main objectives: first, more transparency and information for all players along the chain, and notably for consumers and smes; second, improved availability, quality and affordability of delivery solutions, notably cross-border; third, better safeguards for consumers when delivery goes wrong, via complaint handling and redress mechanisms delivery operators, e-retailers and consumer organisations have already engaged in constructive discussions. many operators have started to develop solutions that might better meet the expectations of their customers. the industry is leading the effort. we expect results soon, and will follow up so that commitments are met. we do believe further action is needed, in particular to meet the needs of smes and of less-advanced or less-accessible regions, and to provide e-retailers and consumers with more convenient and transparent services. discussions should also continue among social partners to ensure responsible employment conditions in the delivery sector. the commission will facilitate this collaborative process and involve all stakeholders. we will continue working with parliament to monitor the developments achieved by the sector over the next 18 months and to determine whether any further action is needed.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday 4 february 2014.
the agenda includes the report by norica nicolai, on behalf of the committee on women's rights and gender equality, on women immigrants without documents in the european union (2013/2115(ini)) (a7-0001/2014).
member of the commission. - madam president, i wish to thank the rapporteur ms nicolai for this report. it rightly reminds us that many migrant women often find themselves in a vulnerable situation and can suffer from discrimination on grounds both of gender and of legal status. it is important to have a holistic approach and to look at all those who are concerned by our actions, especially the most vulnerable. the full respect of fundamental rights, including those of groups like undocumented migrant women, has to be ensured in the implementation of all facets of eu immigration policy. indeed, to tackle the problem we face, a wider international effort is required including, for example, through institutions like the ilo, as pointed out by the rapporteur. so with close monitoring of the correct implementation of the relevant legal instruments, the commission can ensure that undocumented women benefit from the guarantees and safeguards provided by eu law. under the employers’ sanctions directive, everywhere in the eu there are laws to punish those who exploit irregular migrants by employing them on the black market. the directive does not prevent member states from accepting anonymous complaints, as called for in the report. in may 2014, the commission will present a report on the application of the directive, just under three years since the deadline for member states to implement its provisions. for the moment, we have not made plans to revise the directive. the calls in parliament’s report for its swift and correct implementation are, of course, warmly welcomed by the commission. an evaluation of the transposition of the eu acquis on smuggling is being launched. the first results are expected in autumn 2014, and could lead to future clarification or modification of the current provisions. in some weeks’ time, the commission will adopt a communication including its first application report on the return directive. the commission is determined to further promote humane and dignified treatment of returnees as well as the systematic use of alternatives to detention. we also agree on the need to focus more on fundamental-rights-compatible apprehension practices and to reduce the criminalisation of irregular stay, in line with recent ecj case-law. our current approach is based on monitoring the correct application of the existing rules, and we do not have immediate intentions to propose legislative changes. but in the longer term, changes are not ruled out. finally, when it comes to trafficking in human beings, let me stress that for the eu human trafficking is unacceptable. i believe that the eu’s legal and policy framework for addressing trafficking in human beings does take into account the gender dimension of the problem. both the 2011 eu directive on human trafficking and the complementing eu strategy of 2012 recognise and address the gender dimension of human trafficking. at the same time as we address those gender-specific aspects of the human trafficking problem, we have to make sure that the perpetrators profiting from human exploitation end up behind bars. it is the traffickers who deserve punishment, not the victims, who are, unfortunately, too often treated as petty criminals.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday 4 february 2014. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking mrs gallo for her precise and timely work on topics such as those we are dealing with this morning, and i would also like to thank commissioner barnier for the proposal which the commission has put forward. the services which are the subject of the directive under discussion this morning are those which can, as we know, be provided live - i don't know, a film showing in a cinema, a concert in a music hall - but what we are concerned with are increasingly those which are online and in some sectors licences are mainly granted directly by individual rights holders, such as film producers, while in others collective management societies play a decisive role. the development of a single market for online cultural content has led to calls for a change in copyright licensing, particularly for music works, because online music service providers have difficulties, as we know, in acquiring licences with an aggregated repertoire for a territory extending beyond that of a member state. this has led to a fragmentation of the european union market for these services which, by limiting the provision of online music services by service providers, also undermines the potential of licensing in musical works in terms of geographical reach and remuneration. it is therefore important to improve and protect the interests of artists and safeguard cultural diversity in the european union, to also optimise the relations between collective management organisations and commercial users in the interest of the consumer, and to strengthen the digital single market through simplification and reduction of licensing costs, with a view to facilitating the development of new online services for musical works on a multi-territorial basis. it is important above all to overcome the fear that the aggregation of repertoire and the possible creation of a hub may favour exclusively the anglo-american repertoire and may represent a threat to local repertoires and cultural diversity. i also support some of the suggestions that the commission has given us, in particular the european licensing passport, which could promote the voluntary aggregation of online music repertoires at eu level and the licensing of music through multi-territorial structures. i am therefore very pleased and in favour of what we have produced in this parliament on this subject.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as rapporteur for the new creative europe programme, i would also like to congratulate the rapporteur, the shadow rapporteurs, mrs castex and commissioner barnier on this important and much awaited directive for the internal digital market in music. the commission has already proposed a number of measures to improve the quality of the information available to the public, such as the publication of a report on the quality of the information available to the public. this directive is a real breakthrough and lays the foundations for the future copyright directive, which we are certainly very interested in seeing adopted at least in the next legislature. the music sector was the first to be hit by piracy, but it has been able to challenge the new demand and the new opportunities of the network, but also the new risks, also by creating and implementing new supply models and new business and consumption models. but it was also the result of the inadequate transnational governance of collective management societies and the inadequate and transparent remuneration of authors, sometimes conflicts of interest, as well as the difficulty sometimes of users to access the market legally and also some bad habits such as piracy. this directive is a clear and balanced approach in two directions: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rights of the european public are protected, and that the rights of the european public are protected, and that the rights of the european public are protected. it is particularly important to me, also as a member of the committee on culture, that this directive finally makes more effective, also in the online and digital world, the rights and duties provided for in the lisbon treaty, such as the protection and promotion of cultural diversity, the tangible and intangible cultural heritage and wider public access to culture. but i also think that this consultation is necessary... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, as you know, after a long discussion we have reached a good compromise, a good compromise because it defends the rights of consumers in the internal market as regards online access to musical works and at the same time it does not call into question the rights of all parties involved through balanced clauses. we have now lost a lot of time in the battle against piracy, which is undoubtedly one of the most delicate issues, but not the only one in this field, before finally finding the balance that led to a unanimous conclusion in the committee. it is now a matter of taking the next step, and that is primarily your responsibility. we need to get to a constitutional reform for copyright. music is a segment, a sector that undoubtedly has a great deal of attention, perhaps the most important from the point of view of fruition, but it must be used as an example to do the rest. we therefore expect final copyright rules to be adopted soon.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i fully agree that those who manipulate markets must be prosecuted in an appropriate manner, because it is unacceptable that financial markets should be a kind of free zone where justice cannot intervene. the libor and euribor rate manipulations are emblematic, with some of the largest european banks involved in this scandalous fraud, the same banks that then received hundreds of billions of loans from the ecb without any problems; the european parliament has been a great example of how this europe works, a slave to the big groups and financial interests. this report talks about targeting those who use insider information improperly and i wonder if perhaps this was the behaviour of ecb president mario draghi in the past. i am referring to the incident which almost brought down the oldest banking institution in the world, monte dei paschi di siena. draghi was well aware of the disproportionate cost that the tuscan bank was paying to acquire antonveneta, as only two years earlier he had, as a consultant to goldman sachs, overseen the sale of the padua institute to the dutch abn amro. i wonder why he did not use the information in his possession to block this negotiation, which probably concealed a large round of illegal transactions. the former president of monte dei paschi, mussari, is himself under investigation for the abuse of privileged information linked to the antonveneta affair, but i believe that there is also an extended responsibility of other, much more important individuals.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the vital moreira report on greenland's participation in the implementation of the kimberley process certification system. i think it is important to allow greenland to participate in the kimberley process certification system for international trade in rough diamonds through its cooperation with the european union. as greenland is not a state and therefore cannot take part in the kimberley process, it is not in a position to issue a certificate and therefore to export rough diamonds. in the light of the council proposal, greenland would be able to start importing and exporting rough diamonds with the union as well as with other participants in the certification scheme, provided that they are regularly verified and certified by the authorities. the promotion and protection of the kimberley process is a fundamental requirement for curbing the flow of rough diamonds to finance wars against legitimate governments. in this way, in addition to disrupting the illegal diamond trade, greenland could attract potential investors in the mining sector and the eu would, in turn, establish close economic relations with greenland in line with the objective of promoting the economic and social development of the overseas territories.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr moreira's report on the legislative proposal which will enable greenland to join the european certification system for the diamond trade. i believe that the implementation of this text is particularly important because it will make it possible to combat the illegal diamond trade more effectively.
in writing. - the report concerns the amendments to regulation no 2368 of 2002 to allow greenland's participation in the kimberley process certification scheme. this amendment would allow the import and export of rough diamonds, through cooperation between greenland and the european union. for the above reasons and considering that this process involves governments all over the world (in order to block the circulation of diamonds which are often used to finance rebel movements or wars), i vote in favour.
in writing. - special attention needs to be paid to the involvement of civil society and industry, which is a good starting point (but not a guarantee, of course) for the kimberley process to be inclusive, cooperative and effective. any country that is willing to take part in it and to agree to respect and effectively implement its rules should be welcomed. i also welcome the commission's creative approach to linking greenland to the eu certification system by associating this region as an overseas country and territory.
in writing. - the kimberley process certification scheme is a self-sustaining government initiative to stop the illegal trade in rough diamonds, often used by rebel movements to fund wars against legitimate governments. almost all diamonds produced in the world are produced by the kimberley process participants, and membership is an essential condition for the export of this material. in the present case, greenland cannot participate in this process because it is not a proper state, being part of the kingdom of denmark. as regards its participation in the implementation of the certification system, i voted in favour because i believe that it is important for this region to diversify its economy and also to focus on its mining system, which today represents about 1% of gdp. if greenland succeeds in joining the kimberley process, it could issue certificates, allowing it to export rough diamonds and attract potential investors in the mining sector, thus promoting its economic development. i therefore believe that, like the states, regions which are willing to enforce the rules to prevent the flow of diamonds should also be welcome.
in writing. - whereas the two proposals for regulations are designed to enable greenland to participate in the kimberley process certification system for international trade in rough diamonds through its cooperation with the european union and whereas this process is an important innovative tool aimed at stopping the flow of conflict-fuelled diamonds, i.e. rough diamonds used by rebel movements to finance wars against legitimate governments; agreeing with the commission's creative solution to link greenland to the eu certification system by associating this region as an overseas country and territory, and firmly convinced that such an association can help to promote economic and social development within the meaning of article 198 tfeu, i voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - the kimberley process is a voluntary joint initiative of governments, industry and civil society, stemming from un resolution a/res/55/56, aimed at stopping the flow of conflict-fuelled diamonds, i.e. rough diamonds used by rebel movements to finance wars against legitimate governments. i support greenland's participation in the project because diversification of the island's economy is essential for the well-being of its inhabitants, as the fisheries sector (88 per cent of gdp) is less reliable than in the past. the kimberley process is a good starting point for an inclusive, cooperative and effective process, and it also draws attention to the involvement of civil society and industry. so far, the kimberley trial has produced positive results. for this reason, any country which is willing to take part in it and to agree to respect and effectively implement its rules should be welcomed. i therefore reiterate my support for the report and the commission's solution to link greenland to the eu certification system by associating this region as an overseas country and territory.
in writing. - in line with the position adopted by the epp and with the positive vote on the report by vital moreira on the same subject, i have decided to vote in favour of this report as well and to support the proposals put forward by the commission to facilitate the inclusion of greenland in the kimberley process. both parties, the eu and greenland, can benefit from greenland's participation in the kimberley process certification scheme as a necessary tool to curb the flow of rough diamonds to fund rebel movements. in addition, greenland's involvement in the kimberley process represents a step forward in relations with this overseas territory, which can lead to a fruitful partnership in many respects.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the moreira report on the approval of the agreement which will enable greenland to join the international certification system governing the trade in diamonds.
in writing. - the report proposes to amend regulation (ec) no 2368/2002 to allow greenland to join the kimberley process certification scheme. greenland has been part of denmark since 1979, later gaining the status of an autonomous region, and since 1985 it has not been part of the eu, being included among the overseas countries and territories. it is not a state, so it cannot be part of the kimberley process. that is why we are asking for an amendment to allow greenland to participate. i am voting in favour of the text because this amendment is necessary to allow the import and export of rough diamonds through cooperation between greenland and the eu.
in writing. - i shall vote in favour of the motion for a resolution by the european parliament on the proposal for a council decision laying down the rules and procedures for greenland's participation in the kimberley process certification system. the kimberley process is an important innovative tool to stem the flow of conflict-fueling diamonds, i.e. rough diamonds used by rebel movements to finance wars against legitimate governments. the european union is actively involved in this initiative and intends to play a positive role in making it even more effective. as a non-state and therefore not a party to the kimberley process, greenland is not in a position to issue a certificate and therefore to export rough diamonds, and this in fact hinders its ability to attract potential investors in the mining sector. to address this issue, greenland has requested association with the eu in order to benefit from the union's certification system. for these reasons, i welcome the commission's creative approach to linking greenland to the eu certification system by associating this region as an overseas country and territory.
in writing. - whereas the proposal for a council decision lays down rules and procedures enabling greenland to participate in the kimberley process certification scheme and whereas this proposal is closely linked to the proposal for a regulation amending council regulation (ec) no 2368/2002 as regards greenland's participation in the implementation of the kimberley process certification scheme; i have voted in favour of the motion, agreeing with the need to stop the flow of rough diamonds used by rebel movements to finance wars against legitimate governments.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the bowles report amending the regulation on the migration to direct debits and transfers at union level, giving six months' extension to the providers of these services to avoid interruption and the consequent gridlock of the system.
in writing. - the report concerns the amendment of regulation (eu) no 260/2012 on the migration to transfers and direct debits at union level. i am voting in favour of this because i believe that harmonization is necessary by moving from national transfer and debit systems to a single system at european level, including the introduction of a single international bank account number (iban). the aim of this change is to complete a single area for payments in euro (sepa).
in writing. - i have decided to support the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) no 260/2012 as regards the migration to union-wide direct debits and direct transfers.
in writing. - regulation (eu) no 260/12 sets 1 february 2014 as the deadline for migration to direct debits and transfers in the euro area. the commission has proposed to amend the regulation by introducing an exemption clause allowing banks and other payment services to continue processing these payments after 1 february for a period of six months.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr kuhn's report because i believe that the european parliament, through its action, should contribute to improving the safety of fishing vessels and approve the draft council decision authorizing member states to sign, ratify or accede, as appropriate, to the cape town agreement. i therefore voted in favour of the rapporteur's view of the current eu safety rules applicable to fishing vessels flying the flag of eu member states and to fishing vessels flying the flag of third states operating in the internal or territorial waters of a member state or landing their catches in a member state port. these rules ensure a common safety regime for all vessels, while ensuring fair competition in eu waters. the adoption of this recommendation is not only intended to increase the safety of fishing vessels of 24 metres in length or more, but it is hoped that it will create the conditions for tackling the problem of fishing vessels of less than 24 metres in length, which in fact constitute the majority of fishing vessels.
in writing. - the international maritime organisation estimates that around 24 000 people die on fishing vessels every year, and i therefore felt it necessary to support the kuhn report, which calls for measures to safeguard the safety of these workers.
in writing. - it is important to conclude the cape town agreement because it could help to improve the safety of fishing vessels. it is therefore appropriate to ratify this agreement. we take account of the data published by the international maritime organisation (imo) which shows that 24 000 people in the fishing industry lose their lives every year worldwide. it is therefore important that the 1993 torremolinos protocol on the safety of fishing vessels comes into force and that the level of ambition of this instrument is not reduced. we are in favour of the current eu safety rules, which apply to vessels landing their catches in a member state's port. these rules ensure a common safety regime for all vessels, while ensuring fair competition in eu waters.
in writing. - whereas the draft council decision authorises the member states to sign, ratify or accede, as appropriate, to the cape town agreement which is intended to contribute to improving the safety of fishing vessels and whereas this agreement is to enable the implementation of the 1977 torremolinos international convention on the safety of fishing vessels and the 1993 protocol thereto which have never entered into force because they were ratified by an insufficient number of states; i am therefore in favour of the proposal, since, as the international maritime organisation points out, 24 000 people in the fishing industry lose their lives every year worldwide, and it is therefore important that the torremolinos protocol of 1993 on the safety of fishing vessels should enter into force and that the level of ambition of this instrument should not be reduced.
in writing. - it is essential that the torremolinos protocol of 1993 on the safety of fishing vessels comes into force and that the level of ambition of this instrument is not reduced. i support the report because i look favourably on the cape town agreement. it will help to improve the safety of fishing vessels. i also agree with the rapporteur in supporting the declaration to be deposited by member states upon signature, ratification or accession to the cape town agreement of 2012 that the exemptions for annual inspections (rule 1 (6)) and for vessels operating exclusively in a common fisheries area or an exclusive economic zone (rule 3 (3)) introduced by this agreement are excluded from application. i hope that the cape town agreement, when it comes into force, will not only contribute to the safety of fishing vessels of 24 metres or more in length, but that it will create the conditions to deal with the problem of fishing vessels of less than 24 metres in length, which make up the majority of fishing vessels.
in writing. - compliance with union law must be a real political priority to be pursued in close cooperation with the european parliament. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is properly implemented. this is why, in my role as european ombudsman for international child abduction, i proposed a study on cross-border parental child abduction, with the aim of analysing the legal framework at national and european level, collecting up-to-date data, assessing practical implementation and any problems relating to the application of existing legislation. this study will serve as a basis for filling the gaps identified, continuously improving legislative activity, as well as improving the effectiveness of judicial remedies and promoting extrajudicial remedies. i would also like to emphasise that citizens' petitions are a key instrument for reporting violations of union law, particularly in the areas of fundamental rights, the environment, the internal market and property rights.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the lichtenberger report because i believe that the commission has a central role to play in ensuring that eu law is properly applied and in initiating an infringement procedure where a member state has failed to fulfil its obligations to it by virtue of the fact that the treaties are the basis and framework of the eu's legal and legislative system. the commission's role is even more important in view of the steady increase in infringement procedures initiated for delay in transposing legislative acts by some member states. however, the commission does not yet have the policy or resources to systematically identify and prosecute all cases of non-implementation, but only the most serious infringements. i agree with the rapporteur that the commission should, together with parliament, consider the proper application of eu law as the top priority for the proper functioning of the eu itself.
in writing. - while i share many of the views expressed in the lichtenberger report analysing the application of community law in 2011, i do not agree with the criticisms made of the eu pilot instrument, which is why i abstained.
in writing. - having regard to the motion for a resolution tabled by parliament, the opinion of the committee on constitutional affairs and the opinion of the committee on petitions, i have decided to approve the annual report on monitoring the application of european union law.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of the report because it highlights a number of important issues: firstly, the steady increase in infringement procedures for late transposition by member states, as 763 late transposition procedures were still open at the end of 2011, an increase of 60% compared to the equivalent figure of the previous year. in this respect, the commission also referred the first infringement procedure for late transposition to the court of justice with a request for financial penalties under article 260 (3) tfeu in 2011. i also believe that the implementation of the eu pilot platform should be more transparent as regards complaints and in general transparency in infringement procedures should be increased.
in writing. - whereas members of the european parliament may not be subject to any search, detention or prosecution for opinions or votes expressed in the performance of their duties as required by article 8 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the union, whereas the principle underlying parliamentary immunity provided for in article 8 of the protocol is the freedom of members to debate matters of public interest without being obliged to shape their opinions in such a way as to make them acceptable or harmless to those who listen to them, without fear of being sued if they do not; i agree with the proposal by the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights on the need to protect the immunity and privileges of mrs lara comi.
in writing. - whereas allegedly defamatory statements may in principle be covered by the absolute immunity provided for in article 8 of the protocol (which relates to opinions expressed by a member in the performance of his duties) and whereas that article provides for the prohibition of the search for, detention of or prosecution of a member of the european parliament on the grounds of his opinions. however, agreeing, on the basis of the circumstances of the case and in accordance with the recommendation of the legal affairs committee, that there is no reason to establish the necessary direct and obvious link and that the case does not fall within the scope of mr ziobro's political activities as a member of the european parliament because it concerns activities of a purely national nature, i voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this proposal, which will significantly reduce bureaucracy and remove yet another obstacle to a truly transnational and borderless european union. the regulation aims to fulfil the very important role of making formalities easier for citizens who move across borders. a large number of eu citizens live in a member state other than their own, and this number is steadily increasing. however, administrative formalities across borders are generally considerably more complicated than within each member state. for this reason this text aims to simplify the cross-border recognition of public documents and to reduce the number of documents needing certified translation.
in writing. - we voted in favour of this measure because it goes in the direction which we epp members have always wanted, namely administrative simplification. this proposal for a regulation eliminates red tape and gives meaning to the principle of mutual trust, reducing costs for european citizens and businesses. the introduction of multilingual union standard modules will simplify the lives of citizens and businesses operating across borders. multilingual forms are essential because they will enable everyone to obtain certificates and public documents from the authorities of his own country in accordance with standard forms which will then be valid in all the member states, without having to go through new bureaucratic procedures and produce new certificates. a step forward towards more complete european integration.
in writing. - i share the views expressed in the rapkay report on the proposal for a regulation to promote the free movement of citizens and businesses by simplifying the acceptance of certain public documents in the european union. the proposals contained in this text will facilitate the circulation and acceptance of certain documents issued in one member state for use in another member state, while simplifying the lives of every eu citizen.
in writing. - i supported the proposal because its objective is to facilitate the free movement of public documents within the eu, thereby simplifying life for citizens and businesses. by reducing red tape and giving meaning to the principle of mutual trust, the report abolishes the burdensome authentication requirements and other unnecessary formalities for accepting certain public documents. i believe that mutual recognition within the eu should be the norm, in the interests of us citizens and the economy.
in writing. - the report concerns the proposal for a regulation to promote the free movement of citizens and businesses by facilitating the acceptance of public documents in the eu. the aim is to reduce the red tape involved in the recognition of certain public documents in a different member state (e.g. birth certificate, marriage certificate, certificates attesting to the legal form of a company). to do this, it is therefore proposed that this type of certification be recognised in all eu countries, without the need for confirmation by the foreign and justice ministries. i am voting in favour of the text because this simplification would save both time and money for citizens and businesses.
in writing. - citizens rightly complain about the bureaucratic and administrative obstacles they encounter in their daily lives. the commission has identified 20 criticisms relating to administrative formalities, and it has indicated that simplification is needed. i fully share that line. these obstacles slow down the lives of citizens, but above all the work of enterprises. i am thinking of the hours spent obtaining or having recognized identity cards, diplomas, certificates of invalidity, tax and social security documents. the introduction of multilingual union standard forms will simplify the lives of citizens and businesses operating across borders and will help reduce red tape. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
in writing. - this proposal is of crucial importance to eu citizens and businesses as it aims to promote and facilitate their free movement by simplifying the recognition of certain public administrative documents, i.e. by eliminating a whole series of burdensome formalities such as certified translations and postcards. it should be stressed, however, that this proposal for a regulation does not seek to harmonise in any way the substantive law of the member states in the areas concerned: there is no requirement that a member state must recognise the content of a document from another member state; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used effectively. we believe that in a european area of freedom, security and justice, these formalities should no longer be necessary, as mutual recognition without further formalities should be the norm, and this in the general interest of citizens and the economy. in order to prevent possible fraud attempts, we support the commission's proposal to use the internal market information system (imi) for administrative assistance, which is already used in the economic field and which allows the authority of the receiving member state to ask for help from the authorities of the issuing state in case of doubt.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr rapkay's report because i believe that european legislation on public documents should be simplified. this report, by promoting the free movement of public documents, will make it easier for citizens and businesses to gather the information they need and to move around freely. in addition, this type of simplification, with the harmonization of national legislation, will help to open a business outside the territory of its own member state.
in writing. - whereas the present proposal for a regulation is of crucial importance for the citizens of the european union, although it concerns only formalities and not the recognition of legal acts or relationships established in other member states and therefore does not aim at harmonising in any way the substantive law of the member states in the areas concerned; i agree that this proposal for a regulation eliminates red tape and gives meaning to the principle of mutual trust, reducing costs for citizens and businesses while creating a system of administrative assistance which can prevent fraud attempts more effectively. i therefore voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - in 2012, some 12 million european citizens, according to eurostat data, lived in a european country other than their country of origin. this is for study, work or holiday purposes. the abolition of additional crossborder formalities is therefore another important step towards facilitating the free movement of citizens. voting in favour of this proposal for a regulation will be a great step forward for the citizens of europe. it eliminates red tape and gives meaning to the principle of mutual trust. the costs for citizens and businesses are reduced, while at the same time a system of administrative assistance is created that can more effectively prevent fraud attempts. the introduction of multilingual union standard forms will simplify the lives of citizens and businesses operating across borders and will help reduce red tape.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr rapkay's report, which aims to facilitate the free movement of public documents within the european union, thus simplifying the lives of citizens by facilitating genuine requests and harmonising the rules.
in writing. - the updating of the directives on the classification and labelling of chemicals is a necessary and necessary step following the adoption of the regulation on the classification, labelling and packaging of substances and mixtures. the identification of hazardous chemicals, the provision of information to users about the hazards through the use of standard symbols and labels on packaging are important objectives, achieved by the 2008 regulation. i should like to point out, however, that the amendments to the five directives contained in the draft report are essentially technical, almost bureaucratic. the five directives should obviously be subject to a substantial review in order to ensure consistent legislation and an adequate level of protection of health and safety in workplaces where dangerous chemicals and mixtures are present.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the essayah report on the classification, labelling and packaging of substances and mixtures, because i believe that it is most appropriate to review all five existing directives on this subject. consistent legislation and an adequate level of health and safety protection in workplaces where hazardous chemicals and mixtures are present must be ensured. the ultimate objective should be to enable the identification of hazardous chemicals by informing users of the hazards associated with the presence of these chemicals through the use of ad hoc symbols and standard phrases on packaging labels and safety data labels. following the adoption of regulation (ec) no 1272/2008 of the european parliament and of the council, the need to adapt and update the existing legislation to new occupational health and safety requirements has emerged. the directives would therefore be revised from a formal rather than a substantive point of view, since their scope would not be restricted.
in writing. - the directive only seeks to change the wording of labelling without introducing any procedural changes. i voted in favour of the essayah report, as it does not involve any additional costs for sme owners.
in writing. - the report concerns the amendment of council directives 92/58/eec, 92/85/eec, 94/33/ec, 98/24/ec and directive 2004/37/ec of the european parliament and of the council in order to align them with regulation (ec) no 1272/2008 on the classification, labelling and packaging of substances and mixtures. the aim of this adaptation is to identify hazardous chemicals and to inform users of the hazards through the use of standardised symbols and phrases. in view of the contents of the report and the importance of the issues it deals with, i shall vote in favour of the report.
in writing. - this directive protects consumers, the environment and workers by means of a labelling system containing a list of hazardous chemicals contained in mixtures. i voted in favour of this because the directive brings previously existing eu legislation into line with the un's globally harmonized system of classification and labelling of chemicals. there is a need for a universal standard for the classification and labelling of hazardous chemicals. the directive educates the public on these and the health problems these substances can cause. i support the five new directives as they provide minimum requirements for small businesses, with particular attention to the welfare and safety of workers. the new directives clarify important aspects of the clp regulation, such as the terminology relating to classification and labelling, by providing clear terms for the implementation of the regulation in the member states.
in writing. - whereas regulation (ec) no 1272/2008 of the european parliament and of the council on classification, labelling and packaging of substances and mixtures harmonises existing eu legislation with the united nations system (ghs) for the identification of hazardous chemicals and for informing users of the hazards associated with them, through the use of standard symbols and phrases on packaging labels and safety data labels. the amendments to the five directives proposed by the commission and those contained in this draft report are essentially technical in nature, aimed at ensuring consistent legislation and an adequate level of protection of health and safety at workplaces where dangerous chemicals and mixtures are present. i therefore voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - this proposal on the classification, labelling and packaging of substances and mixtures aims to harmonise existing eu legislation with the united nations system for identifying hazardous chemicals and informing users of the dangers involved, through the use of standard symbols and phrases on packaging labels and safety data labels. the vote also seeks to make technical adjustments to the five directives which contain references to eu legislation on the classification and labelling of chemicals. finally, the amendments to the five directives proposed by the commission and those contained in this draft report are essentially technical in nature. nevertheless, the five directives should obviously be reviewed as soon as possible in order to ensure consistent legislation and an adequate level of protection of health and safety at the workplace.
in writing. - regulation (ec) no 1272/2008 of the european parliament and of the council on classification, labelling and packaging of substances and mixtures harmonises existing eu legislation with the united nations system for identifying hazardous chemicals and informing users of the hazards involved, through the use of standard symbols and phrases on packaging labels and safety data labels. that is why i voted in favour of mr essayah's text.
in writing. - the directive proposes rules to ensure greater transparency for all collective management societies and to encourage multi-territorial licensing of copyright in musical works by collective management societies, particularly in the new digital environment. it is important to safeguard and protect the interests of artists with a view to promoting cultural diversity in the european union. the idea of a european licensing passport to promote the aggregation of online music repertoires at eu level and the licensing of music through multi-territorial structures should also be highlighted. it was important to legislate in this area at eu level to provide a binding instrument, while ensuring that the increased requirements on transparency and administrative capacity should not lead to discrimination against eu-based companies and traders compared to their competitors based outside the eu.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr gallo's report, in line with the ppe and also with the itre committee, because i believe that this directive should facilitate the vitality of our creative industries, while maintaining the powers of collective rights management bodies to administer local and niche repositories on a solidarity basis. the council and parliament's directive will provide european collective management organisations, users, beneficiaries and artists with a substantially renewed tool for better management of the online music sector in europe in the area of copyright and related rights and multi-territorial licensing of rights in musical works for online use. in addition, a specific regulatory framework is needed to protect artists, service providers and consumers: the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information it receives.
in writing. - while i share many of the views expressed in the gallo report which analyses the legislation on 'copyright and neighbouring rights and multi-territorial licensing of rights in musical works for online use', i believe that the text gives excessive protection to companies managing these rights and does not sufficiently address the needs of consumers. i therefore abstained from voting.
in writing. - the advent of new technologies and their use for the distribution of musical works is a challenge to the system for the management of copyright and related rights. the regulation explains the role of collective management organisations (cmo) and harmonises their legal framework at european level, stipulating that, irrespective of the sector in which they operate, they must comply with certain standards of improved management and greater transparency of their activities. unfortunately, despite these positive initiatives, i believe that a single regulatory framework in this area will require further progress. i have decided to abstain from voting.
in writing. - the copyright management directive regulates multi-territorial licensing, regulates the online use of musical works and ensures that they are properly managed. in the past, divergences between national laws have too often penalized rights holders for the use of their artistic productions, including in foreign markets. the aim of this directive is to ensure greater transparency, simplification of licensing procedures, reduction of transaction costs for users, fairer access to markets and greater protection for rightholders.
in writing. - having regard to the draft legislative resolution of parliament, the opinion of the committee on international trade, the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy, the opinion of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection and the opinion of the committee on culture and education, i approve the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the collective management of copyright and related rights and on the multi-territorial licensing of rights in musical works for online use in the internal market.
in writing. - i decided to vote in favour of this proposal because the purpose of the directive is to facilitate the licensing of copyright and, more generally, access to digital content of interest, particularly in a cross-border context, allowing consumers and businesses to take full advantage of the opportunities of the digital single market. in addition, collective management companies, regardless of the sector in which they operate, will have to comply with european standards which require improved management and greater transparency in the conduct of their activities.
in writing. - the aim of this proposal is to establish appropriate legislation for the collective management of rights by collective management societies on behalf of rightholders. for these reasons, rules are proposed to ensure better governance and greater transparency of all collective management companies. the current legal framework for copyright in the european union has not kept pace with the rapid developments in the digital society. online licensing should facilitate access to online music content across europe. this positive vote encourages and facilitates the granting of multi-territorial licences for copyright in musical works by collective management societies representing authors, particularly in the new digital environment.
in writing. - the purpose of the proposal for a directive discussed by mr gallo is to establish appropriate legislation for the collective management of rights by collective management societies on behalf of rightholders. rules are therefore proposed to ensure better governance and greater transparency of all collective management companies; in addition, the multi-territorial licensing of copyright in musical works by collective management organisations representing authors shall be encouraged and facilitated, in particular in the new digital environment.
i voted in favour of the directive with great conviction, mr president, because it is a very important directive which, for the first time, calls for the harmonization of penal sanctions against the most serious forms of market manipulation, abuse and insider trading. it is a step towards those rules of a single market without which there is no legal certainty and no truly competitive market. it also urged the member states to increase penalties and asked the member states to provide the authorities with the resources, training and tools to make this action effective.
in writing. - the 2003 market abuse directive, while introducing a comprehensive regulatory framework to address insider dealing and market manipulation, has not achieved its objective of increasing investor confidence and market integrity, probably also due to member states' often weak and heterogeneous sanctioning regimes. moreover, market abuse can often be cross-border, so that the regulatory divergence between countries is detrimental to the internal market and leaves a certain margin of manoeuvre for market abusers to choose the most favourable forum ('forum shopping'). the proposal for a directive, together with the proposal for a regulation on insider dealing and market manipulation (market abuse), will provide a more uniform and more stringent regulatory framework, which will help to restore confidence in financial markets and ensure investor protection.
in writing. - while i believe that cases of market manipulation due to the abuse of inside information are a serious problem and that financial supervision should be strengthened, i believe that the provision of criminal sanctions defined at community level is an excessive interference with the sovereignty of the member states and that is why i voted against the mccarthy report.
in writing. - an integrated and efficient financial market and increased investor confidence cannot exist without protecting its integrity. the smooth functioning of securities markets and public confidence in markets are key factors for economic growth and well-being. the introduction of criminal sanctions for market abuse is an important innovation and an expected strengthening of the instruments available to combat abusive behaviour in the market. for the first time in this key area, the european union will make use of the new powers introduced by the lisbon treaty to harmonise criminal law and ensure its effective implementation. i therefore voted in favour of the report because, by introducing criminal sanctions and supporting the harmonisation of maximum sanctions for serious market abuse, it will help to strengthen compliance with the rules and prevent cases of infringement. in particular, it provides for maximum prison sentences of at least four years for serious insider dealing and market manipulation and at least two years for improper dissemination of inside information.
in writing. - the report deals with criminal sanctions for insider dealing and market manipulation. there are currently different supervisory laws in the member states. the proposal provides for common policies to combat market manipulation, the unlawful disclosure of information and the abuse of market and inside information. it also provides for the introduction of common criminal sanctions, including fines, imprisonment, etc. although there are some points which could be taken into account, i find this proposal too intrusive on the sovereignty of the member states, especially in the provision for criminal sanctions to be imposed at community level.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, the directive on criminal sanctions for financial market abuse is a step forward towards harmonising criminal sanctions in the eu, but above all it is an attempt to revive financial markets. confidence in financial markets is too often undermined by insider trading and manipulation of information to influence market prices. the eu is urging all member states to take appropriate measures and to punish all abuses in financial markets with criminal sanctions in an 'effective, proportionate and dissuasive' way.
in writing. - whereas directive 2003/6/ec (the 'mad' directive), while introducing a comprehensive regulatory framework to address insider dealing and market manipulation, has not achieved the objective of enhancing investor confidence and market integrity, and whereas the current proposal for a directive, based on article 83 (2) tfeu, is intended to implement the recommendations of the high level group on financial supervision in the eu and the european commission's impact assessment; i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work.
in writing. - the energy market in europe suffers from a lack of competitiveness, poor integration and higher prices than any other industrialised region in the world. i therefore share the report's objectives of exchanging data and information at european level on investment projects concerning the production, storage and transport of oil, natural gas and electricity. while it is essential that the commission is accurately and regularly informed of investment projects in energy infrastructure in the union, it is also necessary to close structural gaps and ensure the right conditions for companies to invest and compete, through instruments guaranteeing reciprocity with third countries and through dedicated financing for large energy-intensive companies, but above all for small and medium-sized enterprises that suffer every day from increasing competitive obstacles and from the tightening of credit by the banking system. that's what the entrepreneurs ask us to do.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr vălean's report because i think the commission's proposal on investment projects in energy infrastructure in the european union is extremely valid in that it provides a new legal basis, appropriate to the new legislative procedure and, consequently, sound for future investment projects. the objective is to ensure that the commission is accurately and regularly informed of investment projects in energy infrastructure in the union in order to fulfil its tasks in the field of energy. it will carry out a cross-sectoral analysis of the structural development and prospects of the eu energy system every two years and any other specific analyses that may be necessary. the commission proposal will make it possible to identify potential supply and demand gaps and obstacles to investment. in addition, the investment in energy infrastructure needed to complete the internal energy market will be more easily identified. i also share the rapporteur's view that the confidentiality of information and data security must be a top priority.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mrs vălean's report because i think the commission's proposal on investment projects in energy infrastructure in the european union is extremely valid, as it provides a new legal basis, appropriate to the new legislative procedure and, consequently, sound for future investment projects. the objective is to ensure that the commission is accurately and regularly informed about investment projects in energy infrastructure in the union in order to fulfil its tasks in the field of energy. it will carry out a cross-sectoral analysis of the structural development and prospects of the eu energy system every two years and any other specific analyses that may be necessary. the commission proposal will make it possible to identify potential supply and demand gaps and obstacles to investment. in addition, the investment in energy infrastructure needed to complete the internal energy market will be more easily identified. i also share the rapporteur's view that the confidentiality of information and data security must be a top priority.
in writing. - i believe that it is necessary to have a precise and up-to-date picture of the energy infrastructure in the eu at all times so that we can act effectively in this area, which is why i supported the text under vote.
in writing. - i voted in favour because the regulation in question establishes a common framework for the notification to the commission of data and information on investment projects in energy infrastructure in the traditional sectors of oil, natural gas and electricity from coal and lignite, as well as in the innovative sectors of cogeneration of electricity and useful heat, the production of biofuels and renewables. the commission will be informed of investment projects for which construction or decommissioning work has been started or for which a final investment decision has been taken. every two years, the member states or their delegated bodies shall communicate to the commission relevant data and information relating to the projects, so that the commission is accurately and regularly informed and can carry out its tasks: identify potential supply and demand gaps, obstacles to investment, and maintain transparency on expected demand and available supply.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the valean report because it is a distinguishing feature of this parliament to be fully involved in accordance with the ordinary legislative procedure. and this is particularly necessary when the subject of european legislation is a strategic area, such as investment in energy infrastructure. the european union is progressively taking a leading role in shaping the energy choices affecting the 28 member states: the central role of parliament as a link between citizens, local authorities, industry, providers of technological infrastructure and the european institutions must be emphasised. only in this way will it be possible to give future and substance to the european energy market, correct the limitations in the extra-eu energy supply and ensure energy stability and sustainability for the territories in the 28 member states.
in writing. - i welcome the idea of establishing a common framework for notifying the commission of data and information concerning investment projects in energy infrastructure in the oil, gas, electricity and biofuels sectors linked to the carbon dioxide produced by these sectors. this regulation is intended to replace the current council regulation (eu, euratom) no 617/2010 which was rejected by a judgment of the european court of justice (case c-490/10) following a request from the european parliament, which had challenged the legal basis of that regulation.
in writing. - the regulation requires member states to communicate to the commission every two years data and information on investment projects concerning the production, storage and transport of oil, natural gas and electricity. the regulation provides that member states are to collect and communicate data and information every two years on certain types of investment projects concerning the construction, modernisation or decommissioning of production, transport and storage capacities. however, the specificities of the provisions need to be further clarified to avoid double reporting and i believe it is important to strengthen the provisions relating to confidentiality of information and data security.
in writing. - whereas the proposal for a regulation aims to ensure that the commission is accurately and regularly informed of investment projects in energy infrastructure in the union in order to enable it to fulfil its tasks in the field of energy and will also make it possible to identify future potential gaps between supply and demand and obstacles to investment; i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations.
in writing. - i am in favour of the commission's proposal and welcome the new legal basis. this instrument is necessary and complementary to the connecting europe facility to identify the need for investment in energy infrastructure in order to achieve the internal energy market. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the whole of the eu, including the eu's external borders, and to extend the scope of the directive to cover the whole of the eu. i strongly support the emphasis on data protection and confidentiality of information, as well as the extension of the scope to coal, as an important element of the energy mix that has an impact on the union's energy policy; the reporting obligations for capacity for compressed natural gas, in addition to liquefied natural gas, both for import and export, necessary for the diversification of the union's gas supply; the reporting obligations to capacity for electricity storage facilities.
in writing. - considering the qualifications of the proposed candidate and his cv, i have decided to express my vote in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - i find the text of the ayala sender report balanced and acceptable, and that is why i voted in favour of it.
in writing. - whereas the court of auditors, as the external auditor of the eu, has an essential role to play in restoring and improving confidence in the union's public accountability, and whereas the current rapidly changing economic and financial situation calls for effective supervision, in accordance with the principles of economy, efficiency and effectiveness, in a modern european union facing many challenges; agreeing that the independence, integrity, impartiality and professionalism of the court of auditors are the key to the credibility of the court of auditors in its role of assisting parliament and the council in order to monitor and improve the financial management of the union and to protect the financial interests of the union from the planning stage to the closure of the accounts, i have decided to vote in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the adequacy of eu regulation and subsidiarity and proportionality ('better regulation') because i believe that simplified and effective regulation, avoiding any source of confusion and complication, is an optimal strategy to improve the legislative process itself and to adapt eu regulation to new needs as well as smart regulation for smes. the treaty of lisbon has created a new legislative framework within which the 2003 interinstitutional agreement on better law-making also needs to be redefined and renegotiated in order to become binding in line with the tfeu. in this context, it is urgent to broaden the debate on the evolution of the powers attributed to national parliaments, while always taking into account that the time and resource pressures on national parliaments in transposing draft legislation contribute to reinforcing the perception of a democratic deficit in the eu.
in writing. - i do not agree with some of the points in this report and therefore abstained.
in writing. - i supported this report because it stresses the absolute need to simplify, make more effective and efficient the legislation proposed and adopted at european level, thus making it more understandable, clearer and accessible to citizens. as the economic crisis has increased the pressure on the resources of national administrations, the effort to produce clear and easily understandable legislation would help to alleviate some of the burden on national administrations and individuals who are required to comply with legislative rules. the proposal provides for better coordination of eu policies and the maintenance of a clear and understandable division of powers in the multi-level governance system. finally, it is called for decisions to be taken in a more transparent manner and at the most appropriate level, thus reducing any red tape.
in writing. - good legislation helps to reduce the costs for public administrations, private individuals and small and medium-sized enterprises, which are obliged to comply with european legislative rules. maintaining a clear and understandable division of responsibilities in the multi-level governance system and making decisions in a transparent manner and at the most appropriate level reduces red tape. the motion for a resolution on 'eu regulatory adequacy and subsidiarity and proportionality' ('better regulation') analyses the progress made in this area and consolidates best practice. the work of the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights is a good indication of the way ahead in the final elimination of unnecessary regulatory and administrative barriers.
in writing. - in view of the new features introduced by the lisbon treaty and with a view to a more administrativeally cohesive european union, work must be done on 'better lawmaking'. the regulatory boundaries between the various countries must be reduced, and their administrations must be simplified and made more open to comparison and to the european project. these guidelines form the basis of this study, which analyses and assesses the progress made in recent years on adequacy of eu regulation, subsidiarity and proportionality.
in writing. - whereas there is a need to promote a wider discussion on the evolution of the powers of national parliaments, aligning the incentives for control with the effects at european level, taking into account that the time and resource pressures on national parliaments in transposing draft legislation contribute to reinforcing the perception of a democratic deficit in the eu; i have to say that i agree with the rapporteur that national parliaments should be involved in the ex post evaluations of new legislation, and although i do not agree with all aspects of the proposal, i have expressed my support for the rapporteur's work.
in writing. - the three commission communications on improving the legislative process, the adequacy of european union regulation and smart regulation for smes are an incentive which parliament has very much welcomed, but rationalization is a must to avoid confusion and complications. i agree with the rapporteur that the current european legislative environment calls for a revision of the 2003 interinstitutional agreement on better law-making, with a view to consolidating current best practice and updating the agreement in line with the smart regulation agenda. a broader discussion on the evolution of the powers of national parliaments should be promoted, aligning the incentives for control with the effects at european level, taking into account that the time and resource pressures on national parliaments in transposing draft legislation contribute to reinforcing the perception of a democratic deficit in the eu. parliament should also reserve the right to contribute to the impact assessment guidelines by submitting detailed proposals for improvement of those guidelines in the coming months.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr karim's report which analyses the progress made in the area of 'better regulation' by reducing regulatory and administrative barriers, renegotiating the 2003 interinstitutional agreement and updating it to take account of the new lisbon treaty and consolidating current best practice.
mr president, i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the future of europe also depends on its ability to take care of excluded citizens and, although the union has developed over the years strategies to guarantee the principle of equality in the field of roma integration, discrimination on the basis of disability and gender equality, no strategy has yet been put in place to combat discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation or gender identity. while this report is only the beginning of a path towards the full integration of lgbt people in europe, i believe it meets the legitimate expectations of many european citizens who are calling for binding provisions on the matter. we know that we still have a long way to go, but this is a good start and we now expect a clear and decisive initiative from the european commission.
mr president, in the last few days many of us have been invited through a pressing e-mail campaign to reject this report. it is surprising to see how mobilisations led by lobbies and associations with a clear ultra-conservative matrix have no awareness, or worse are indifferent, to the sharp increase in phenomena of homophobia and discrimination based on sexual orientation and gender identity throughout europe. in italy alone, too many children have committed suicide in recent months because they could not bear the weight of discrimination at school or the rejection they received from their families. the data published in 2013 by the fundamental rights agency leave no doubt: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i voted in favour because it is urgent to involve educational institutions, associations, social and labour organizations in a roadmap for civilization with precise, clear commitments which the european commission must develop as soon as possible.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because it reiterates our full support against discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation and gender identity. since january 2011, the european parliament has made this request ten times in various resolutions, asking the european commission to produce a roadmap against homophobia. with this text we finally set out a draft canvas for such a comprehensive policy by asking the european commission to make proposals for non-discrimination in employment, education, health, access to goods and services as well as in the field of citizenship and families.
in writing. - i do not share the positions taken in the lunacek report which analyses the 'roadmap against homophobia and discrimination based on sexual orientation and gender identity'. i voted against this text because i found its positions unbalanced and excessive.
in writing. - despite the heavy rejection of the estrela report last december, the lunacek report is another attempt to approve discrimination 'in reverse', attacking the family as the basic unit of our society. my vote on the dossier, which is not binding on the member states, was against it, despite the fact that, under pressure from the epp, the report was made less rigid and liberal, but still not without some problematic elements. i would like to reiterate that the document has no binding force and is merely a battle to exploit situations which deserve to be examined in depth in the competent bodies, since these are matters of state competence.
in writing. - i voted in favour of amendment no 1 because it clearly reaffirms the principle of subsidiarity and above all because it seeks to avoid the needless and unnecessary renewal of the debate on the claim to introduce, alongside the categories of male and female, based on the nature and purpose of the whole of creation: the generation of children as a guarantee of human history, other categories dependent on the opinions and feelings of some, legitimate but not significant for the public interest in the common good. for the same reason, and contrary to the indications of my group, i am voting against amendment no 2 because, although it corrects the lunacek report on two important points (avoiding mutual recognition between states of homosexual unions and guaranteeing freedom of thought), it does not tackle at the root the claim to introduce the category of gender, as equivalent in meaning to the sexual dimension of men and women.
in writing. i believe that no one in the world should be discriminated against because of their sexual orientation. the atmosphere among the rapporteurs was rather constructive compared with other recent votes on these subjects, although a further effort was needed to improve the amendments on the more sensitive subjects. i therefore voted against this report. i am firmly in favour of certain sensitive issues, such as the definition of families and their rights, adoption requests and the issue of sex education.
in writing. - the report concerns the definition of a 'roadmap' against homophobia to combat discrimination on the grounds of gender identity and sexual orientation with several objectives, including the promotion of these issues in order to educate young people from primary school. other objectives are: provide training to health professionals on lgbti issues, conduct research on health issues specific to lgbti people. finally, the term "sex" should also be understood to include transgender and intersex people. i do not agree with the whole structure of the report and therefore i am voting against the text.
in writing. - the fight against all forms of discrimination has no masters. the union and the member states shall pursue it by means of the instruments for which they are responsible. unfortunately, serious forms of exclusion and violence, both psychological and physical, on grounds of sex, race, religion and gender, still persist. for this reason, we must not let our guard down and refine our community and national safeguards. it is wrong, however, to try to pursue different ends by waving the flag of discrimination. the text of the joint resolution restores the principle of subsidiarity, returning to the national sphere what is part of state sovereignty, but it does not eliminate certain attempts to pass on the recognition of new rights. i thought the resolution tabled by the efd group was a good formula: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work is based on the principle of equal treatment for men and women. my vote in favour of this resolution is a vote against political manipulation and hypocrisy. it is a vote in support of the dignity and freedom of the human person.
in writing. - i vote in favour of the motion for a resolution by the european parliament on the eu roadmap against homophobia and discrimination based on sexual orientation and gender identity. as provided for in article 21 of the charter of fundamental rights and article 10 of the tfeu, the european union prohibits all forms of discrimination and has an obligation to combat discrimination in the definition and implementation of its actions. the lgbt survey published by the agency for fundamental rights in 2013 indicates that in the past year 47% of lgbt people felt discriminated against or harassed and 26% were victims of violence or threats due to sexual orientation or gender identity. these alarming figures highlight the need for global policies to combat sex discrimination. for these reasons, through this resolution, i call on the european commission to draw up a roadmap against homophobia and discrimination based on sexual orientation and gender identity.
in writing. - i decided to vote against this report because, according to the rapporteur, the term 'gender' should also cover transgender and intersex people, the commission should support member states in training healthcare professionals and specific issues related to transgender and intersex people should be integrated into all relevant eu policies, replicating the approach taken in the strategy for equality between women and men. the commission is also asked to include specific issues related to sexual orientation and gender identity in the implementation and monitoring of asylum legislation.
mr president, i voted in favour of the report on the implementation of the unfair commercial practices directive because it identifies a real problem, one which has implications for the functioning of the european market and the free trade area we are trying to create. that is why the penalties must be increased to outweigh the benefits of unfair practices. it is also necessary to strengthen consumer protection, one of the union's fundamental values, by introducing clarifications on the pre-contractual information that the seller must provide to the consumer in relation to the guarantee, such as the price of air transport. i therefore fully support the call for a guideline document to be drawn up so that member states can apply the directive correctly, thereby ensuring an adequate level of consumer protection throughout the european union and increasing their confidence in the single market, while at the same time providing businesses with important legal certainty.
mr president, this measure is intended to protect consumers against unfair commercial practices by businesses towards them and to give them more confidence in transactions in the internal market, while ensuring greater legal certainty for businesses. i believe it is essential that the member states fully implement and correctly apply the directive, and i also stress the need to strengthen cooperation between national authorities. i also voted in favour of the need to ensure that consumers have effective, quick and inexpensive means of redress. to this end, member states should fully implement both the alternative dispute resolution directive and the online out-of-court dispute resolution. i fully share the need to raise consumer awareness and i appreciate the help that can be given to consumers by consumer associations and the network of european consumer centres to help them to be reimbursed.
in writing. - directive 2005/29/ec aims to protect consumers from unfair business practices and to increase their confidence in transactions in the internal market by providing greater legal certainty for businesses. it is, however, essential that all member states apply the directive correctly. it is therefore important to insist on its proper implementation and it is important above all to ask the member states to strengthen prevention and sanctioning systems as effective deterrents. i believe that it is necessary to insist on providing consumers with effective, quick and inexpensive means of redress, and to encourage them to turn to consumer associations and the network of european consumer centres for help and reimbursement.
in writing. - directive 2005/29/ec aims to protect consumers against unfair business practices by giving them more confidence in their transactions in the internal market. i welcome the intention of the european commission to work over the coming months to produce a policy document to accompany this directive. this update will provide an opportunity to clarify the pre-contractual information that the seller must give to the consumer in relation to the guarantee and the practices tolerated in the area of advertising relating to the price of air transport, both important areas from the point of view of consumer protection. i recognize the usefulness of the database on unfair trading practices, but the fact that it is only available in english could pose problems, particularly for small businesses. to this end, i would draw the commission's attention to the desirability of making the database accessible in the various languages of the european union. i also believe that it is equally important to provide consumers with effective, quick and inexpensive means of redress. i agree with the rapporteur that consumers need to be made more aware of the help that can be given to them by the european consumer centres network in obtaining the right to be reimbursed.
in writing. - i see no valid reasons to support the need to revise this legislation in force since 2005, which is why i did not intend to support this text with my vote.
in writing. - the report concerns the application of directive 2005/29/ec on unfair trading practices. these practices, however, do not represent any major concern on the part of our country, but are far removed from the real priorities of this particular historical moment. although the text is in some respects agreeable, there is no clarity on the need to revise the directive. moreover, this standard was applied in 2005 and, since it is not necessary for the real needs of citizens and businesses, it does not need to be renewed. in addition, in the absence of uniform application of the directive, a penalty is provided for against the member states. the latter element cannot be supported by me because consumer protection requires a certain degree of flexibility and there is no possibility of transposing these rules into national law. i therefore vote against.
in writing. - very often, especially when the figures are small, consumers do not react to fraud and deception, especially when they occur online. it is important to bring an action and, thanks also to the valuable work of consumer rights associations, to obtain reimbursement. however, effective, quick and inexpensive remedies must be provided for consumers. member states should therefore implement the directive on alternative dispute resolution and on the out-of-court settlement of online disputes as quickly and as effectively as possible. i believe that a well-integrated deployment of smart grids within regional energy plans will involve citizens in taking an active and responsible role in the energy and network planning of their regions and in reaping the financial and social benefits of these decisions. this involvement will lead to citizens becoming 'prosumers', in the sense that they themselves produce, use and sell their own energy within a smart grid.
in writing. - we share the rapporteur's view on directive 2005/29/ec, which aims to protect consumers against unfair business practices and to give them more confidence in transactions in the internal market, while ensuring greater legal certainty for businesses. there are still too many gaps in its application and the commission must monitor the application of the text closely and not hesitate to take legal action against those states which fail to implement it or ensure that it is applied correctly under the treaty on the functioning of the european union. we strongly emphasize the need to strengthen cooperation between national authorities, in particular with a view to creating a better understanding of the functioning of the system in other member states. the commission will, however, need to update the directive itself in the coming months in order to provide precise information on pre-contractual information in the field of consumer protection and guarantees. finally, we consider it essential to provide consumers with effective, rapid and inexpensive means of redress: member states will have to fully implement the directive on alternative dispute resolution and on the out-of-court settlement of online disputes.
in writing. - there are many points of agreement in this report, all of which are aimed at fair protection of european consumers. much of the text focuses on deceptive practices that have developed in recent years, taking full advantage of the boom in the internet and new technologies. for example, in social networks, forums or blogs, we find ourselves with comments that seem to come from consumers themselves, when in fact they are messages of an advertising or commercial nature generated and financed directly or indirectly by economic operators. another unfair practice, which i have already reported to the european commission, is the so-called 'ip tracking' which aims to record the number of connections made by individual users from the same ip address, in order to artificially inflate prices in relation to the interest shown by similar searches. we all have noticed this and it is important that measures are taken to stop this abuse. in short, there are still many ways and means, and they are constantly changing, by which unscrupulous economic operators are able to harm the consumer, and also distort competition in the market. so we have to keep our guard up to avoid all this.
in writing. - whereas directive 2005/29/ec aims to protect consumers against unfair commercial practices by undertakings towards them and to increase their confidence in transactions in the internal market by providing greater legal certainty for undertakings; agreeing on the need for member states to fully implement the directive on alternative dispute resolution and on the out-of-court settlement of online disputes in order to ensure effective, fast and inexpensive redress for consumers, i voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - i share the view of the rapporteur that the member states must fully implement and correctly apply the directive. i also think that it is not appropriate to extend the scope of the directive to the b2b sector. i believe that it is essential to strengthen cooperation between national authorities within the ctc network and i think that the commission's idea of providing training for these authorities and for those working in the judicial system is an efficient solution, as they should in particular aim at a better understanding of the functioning of the system in other member states. i also share the idea of working over the next few months to update a guidance document accompanying the directive, so as to provide details on the pre-contractual information that the seller must give to the consumer in the matter of guarantees and on the practices tolerated in advertising relating to the price of air transport, both important areas from the point of view of consumer protection. last but not least, it is essential to ensure that consumers have effective, quick and inexpensive means of redress, and this is why member states need to implement the directive on alternative dispute resolution and on the out-of-court settlement of online disputes.
in writing. - the text of the zwiefka report is balanced and acceptable, and i therefore intend to support it with my vote.
in writing. - i join the report's praise of the eu justice scoreboard, in the full conviction that the operation of efficient and impartial justice systems within the various member states is an essential component of the prospect of growth and competitiveness. being fully convinced of the strategic importance of this objective in order to ensure the efficiency of judicial systems, the italian situation (which is in a low average position in the ranking of eu countries regarding the perception of the independence of the judicial system) is an incentive to suggest the use of evaluation tools to achieve a higher degree of reliability of measurements inherent in the independence data. it may be useful to consider the data relating to the organizational system of the judiciary and in particular the possible presence of associations within the judiciary, which are characterized even only by a small degree of political tendency. this certainly seems to be a situation which could have a negative impact on the degree of perceived independence of the justice system, when it seems objectively likely to create even the slightest doubt that the decision on the dispute is influenced by ideological prejudices. in addition, the reference to data on the possible presence of associations between magistrates could be useful for more reliable checks also in relation to the quality profile of the justice system.
in writing. - the report concerns the european union's justice scoreboard, which focuses on civil, commercial and administrative justice in the member states. the framework is a non-binding comparison tool aimed at assessing the effectiveness of national justice systems. the disadvantage is that it is difficult to make objective measurements, such as the fairness and quality of justice. i therefore vote against the text.
in writing. - we have welcomed this own-initiative report because we consider that improving the quality, independence and efficiency of judicial systems is one of the main objectives of the european union's policies. we consider it essential that all necessary measures be taken to ensure that disputes can be resolved within a reasonable time, while promoting the use of alternative dispute resolution mechanisms. this would have the direct consequence of reducing the costs borne by firms and make the member states more attractive to foreign investors. access to an effective judicial system is also crucial for the effectiveness of eu law: it is very important to ensure common rules, as courts must provide effective remedies to any individual who is allegedly violating his rights under european law. particular attention should also be paid to the effective handling of cases with a cross-border element. such cases are usually more complex than those confined to the national sphere: the provision of legal training in eu law and comparative law is of particular importance in this context, as it increases mutual understanding and therefore also mutual trust.
in writing. - an efficient judicial system contributes to the creation of an environment conducive to economic growth. the certainty and timeliness of justice are essential conditions for starting and carrying on business. unfortunately, in some member states, including italy, the time needed to settle civil and administrative cases and insolvency proceedings is longer than in most other member states. in addition, the number of pending cases is considerably high. the eu justice scoreboard published by the commission, by comparing the different national justice systems, contributes to promoting the exchange of best practices within the union and to improving policy-making in the field of justice, while respecting systemic and cultural specificities. the rapporteur's work does not express a value judgment, but provides useful insights to initiate the necessary reform, drawing on best practice. it is an important analytical tool, and i voted in favour of it for the reasons i have just given.
in writing. - whereas the report focuses exclusively on civil, commercial and administrative law, an area where the judiciary is of particular importance for economic recovery, and whereas improving the quality, independence and effectiveness of judicial systems is one of the main objectives of public policy at union and national level; i have voted in favour of this report, bearing in mind that an effective and independent judiciary contributes to a climate of confidence and stability and that predictable, timely and actionable decisions in the field of justice are an important component of an attractive commercial environment.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of this report because i believe that access to an effective judicial system is also fundamental to the effectiveness of eu law: when applying eu law, national courts act as 'union courts'. although they respond to different legal traditions, national judicial systems must always act on the principles of timeliness, independence, affordability and ease of access. i therefore welcome the objective of efficient and independent judicial systems in the member states, but i think it is difficult to measure these criteria in different member states. in addition, consideration should be given to cases with a crossborder element, which are generally more complex than those confined to the national sphere. in this regard, the provision of legal training on eu law and comparative law is of particular importance as it increases mutual understanding.
mr president, the future of energy infrastructure is a strategic issue for energy efficiency objectives. the transition from a consumption to a production regime must be gradual and must be achieved by investing in local smart grids. i voted in favour of this report because, in addition to reaffirming the centrality of the european funds for structural investment, it affirms the principle of the full involvement of citizens in all stages of energy planning, including the implementation and transformation of existing networks. smart grids require the development of stable and long-term strategies, but the principle of social inclusion in the definition of development plans is crucial to ensure respect for territorial prerogatives and vocations. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's energy policy and its implementation in the member states.
mr president, in a period of rising energy costs, the next structural funds must be spent on the basis of efficiency, avoiding the dispersion of european funds into short-term projects. all regions will have to find solutions to provide a stable and secure energy supply. with the own-initiative report on the establishment of smart grids adopted today, the european parliament is proposing a forward-looking energy strategy which includes increased renewable energy production and energy savings, as well as better use, especially locally, of locally produced energy. this strategy requires an integrated approach, involving other sectors such as transport, housing and urban planning. we must do a good job at this stage, at the stage of programming the funds. as the cases of the most advanced regions in this field have already amply demonstrated, the key to success is the result of openness and transparency between local authorities, businesses and citizens.
mr president, smart grids exploit various energy sources, most of them renewable, and make various communities energy self-sufficient. the successful experiments are mainly on a few danish islands, which have shown the effectiveness of this approach. these networks are the future, and it is towards the future that the european union must commit itself, becoming ever more ambitious in innovation towards sustainability. that is why i voted in favour. i see smart grids as an opportunity especially for the most disadvantaged areas such as the islands of southern europe. they often have higher energy costs, which help to maintain a problematic economic situation. supporting the development of smart grids, especially in island regions such as sardinia and sicily, means promoting their energy independence, economic development and employment, and a sustainable development model that is at the heart of the european project for the coming years.
in writing. - from an environmental point of view, the need for the sustainability of our cities is increasingly emerging, an aspect that is very important in a world where resources are becoming scarcer and where cities also base their development on the availability of tourist and natural resources. the establishment of smart energy networks is a subject of considerable importance, especially for the development of our cities, which will have to commit themselves to becoming "smart cities" or cities that use economic activities, mobility, environmental resources, interpersonal relations, housing policies and the method of administration in a "smart way". it is necessary to encourage local and regional administrations to use the structural and investment funds for the period 2014-2020, to invest minimum shares of the resources of the european regional development fund and the connecting europe facility.
in writing. - i find the schroedter report very balanced and very agreeable. i believe that the proposed objectives of encouraging consumer participation in energy production by supporting them with locally targeted investment, tailored to the specific needs of each region where they will be concentrated, are fundamental, and for these reasons i supported the text with my vote.
in writing. - in a time of rising energy prices, climate change and socioeconomic challenges, all eu regions should find solutions to provide a stable and secure energy supply that is accessible to all citizens, while respecting environmental and sustainability criteria. i voted in favour of the proposal because it encourages the deployment and increased use of smart grids, demonstrating that a smart grid leads to increased production of renewable energy, greater energy savings and better use of locally produced energy. in addition to ensuring security of energy supply and reducing dependence on fossil fuels, smart grids bring several other benefits to local communities, notably in terms of employment. while there are still some challenges to be met in order to achieve a smarter energy system in europe, the proposal is a further step towards a greener, more sustainable and energy independent union.
in writing. - the major challenges facing europe must become the programmatic basis of public administrations at all levels. on the contrary, many local realities are not able to adapt. this is why it is important to highlight the success stories and, in this case, the regions and local communities that have built smart energy systems. it is particularly significant that some of these projects manage to bring together all the aspects necessary to succeed in creating an intelligent energy system: a stable and secure energy supply, accessible to all citizens, in compliance with environmental and sustainability criteria. i would like to mention here an iee project involving local authorities in my region, veneto, which is in line with the resolution: the conurbant project.
in writing. - the issue of a stable and secure energy supply in a context of climate change and rising energy prices is central to the eu member states. to this end, the establishment of smart grids in some european regions has already produced positive results and their extension to other european regions can be assessed taking into account local specificities and additional challenges to be overcome, such as those in the field of data protection and the creation of efficient and harmonised regulatory and legal frameworks.
in writing. - all regions of the european union will soon be called upon to find solutions to provide an increasingly stable and secure energy supply, accessible to all citizens, while respecting environmental and sustainability criteria. in fact, some regions have already adopted solutions and initiatives aimed at so-called smart grids, whereby energy is generated and used close to the production site rather than being transported over long distances, and where two-way communication between the generation and consumption sides is possible. in addition to ensuring security of energy supply and reducing dependence on fossil fuels, smart grids can therefore bring several other benefits to local communities, notably in terms of employment and green jobs. for all these reasons, we voted in favour of this report which shows that a smart grid can be the cornerstone of an increasingly green and sustainable energy agenda, which includes increased production of renewable energy, energy saving and, above all, better and local use of locally produced energy, with significant benefits for all european regions.
in writing. - the establishment of smart grids is an important initiative to invest in. it has been proven that such networks would bring innumerable long-term benefits. firstly, the creation of new jobs, the construction of smart grids that are both more efficient and more environmentally sustainable. secondly, electric power systems reduce power outages and are also more efficient, environmentally friendly and cheaper for consumers. these are some of the reasons why i voted in favour of the report. in implementing energy systems, the report stresses the need to ensure that the privacy of all those connected to the data network is respected. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'smart grid' in the definition of the term 'smart grid'.
in writing. - the good use of the structural funds offered by the new multiannual financial framework 2014-2020 provides for the reduction of co2 emissions through targeted investments for the use and creation of smart energy networks. the report focuses on the creation of smart infrastructure using renewable energy sources, energy saving and electronic transport. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the internet and the internet of things.
in writing. - whereas the renewable energy sector has withstood the current economic crisis and can continue to create jobs in regions where they are most needed, such as coastal and rural areas; i voted in favour of the proposal to encourage investment and financial incentives in this area, which would provide continuous support for innovation in technology and systems, given that the smart grids covered by the report, in addition to ensuring security of energy supply and reducing dependence on fossil fuels, bring a number of other benefits to local communities, particularly in terms of employment and green jobs.
in writing. - the development of an energy distribution system based on 'smart grids' in all eu regions is one of the pillars for achieving the objectives set out by the european commission in its energy roadmap 2050. smart grids are the basis of a new energy production model which aims, in addition to the full integration of renewables, to actively involve the different local communities who will change their role from purchasers to energy suppliers. the various regional actors have, with the 2014-2020 programming, the possibility to orient and include in their operational plans projects of smart grids that can attract private resources and affect the economic development of the territories.
in writing. - my vote in favour of this report is in response to a series of data which so far paint a very positive picture of the intelligent networks put in place to date. in addition to ensuring security of energy supply and reducing dependence on fossil fuels, smart grids bring a number of employment and environmental benefits to local communities. this is also demonstrated by the fact that the renewable energy sector has withstood the economic crisis and can contribute to job creation in the regions where they are most needed. a smart grid can be the cornerstone of a sustainable energy agenda, which includes increased renewable energy production, energy saving, and efficient use of resources. the most difficult issues to resolve will be those related to data protection, as well as regulatory and legal challenges.
in writing. - the report by mr schroedter welcomes a change in the method of energy consumption and production in the regions and highlights the opportunities for geographical changes in the energy grid for the less-favoured regions. it also calls on the member states and regions to invest in local smart grids using the structural funds and the investment funds. the deployment of smart grids requires a stable and long-term policy framework and calls on the commission to propose ambitious binding 2030 targets for energy efficiency and renewable energy as well as for greenhouse gas emissions.
mr president, i voted in favour of this report because small farms deserve more attention. small businesses are a great asset. this activity is linked to the lives of many families in italy and europe. these are very important factors which help to maintain excellent, niche and, above all, high-quality production in the agricultural sector. the most important step is the change of generation, a step which must be supported in order not to disperse regional productions which are productions of great value, as well as centuries-old traditions and customs. therefore, invest more in small farms, also through the instruments of the cap and cohesion policy. more resources for infrastructure and for the modernisation of small businesses, for development, for growth and above all for jobs.
mr president, small farming is often not economically profitable and therefore many young people, often the children of farmers, are forced to abandon their activities, to give them up, to escape poverty. this is even more true in regions such as sardinia, which suffers from high transport costs, linked to its insularity - but certainly not only sardinia - and for which rural areas are now being abandoned and depopulated. if this trend is not stopped, it could have dramatic consequences not only for the agricultural sector but also for other related sectors such as tourism, for which cultural and agri-food characteristics are strategic, and for which europe must take responsibility. the reform of the common agricultural policy 2014-2020 introduced important new elements in the support for the establishment of young farmers on which our hope for the survival of small farms is based. in the next few weeks we shall be very attentive to the measures which the commission intends to take to implement these measures. i welcome the report, which has laid the foundations for a sustainable strategy for small businesses.
in writing. - small farms are an integral part of the european countryside. in recent years, there has been a decline in the number of industrial farms in europe. although they are linked to the livelihoods of many families, large farms have traditionally been favoured under the cap. i therefore welcome the new forms of support which, in the framework of the cap reform, are aimed at supporting small farms, even though i consider them to be insufficient. i agree with the rapporteur that in order to solve the problems of small farms, not only the two pillars of the cap but also the cohesion policy of the european union, which should finance the infrastructure essential for these farms in rural areas and, through the european social fund, social initiatives in the field of social integration, education and training, must play a key role. i believe that greater mobilisation by local authorities is also needed: small firms do not have a significant market share and therefore appropriate forms of national support should be provided for at union level, while respecting the principles of competition policy.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on small farms because, in addition to being an integral part of the european countryside, they maintain the diversity of the landscape, provide for the livelihood of millions of people and enable centuries-old traditions and folk customs to be handed down that would otherwise be destined to disappear. in the cap, large farms are favoured and benefit most from their weight on the market. although small farms are characterised by a lower level of efficiency, highly diversified production and strictly family-generational management, they should be given greater protection and included in a general framework for their safeguarding at eu level, while taking into account the marked differences between the various member states due to historical, social and economic reasons. i agree with the rapporteur that both the pillars of the cap and the eu's cohesion policy must play a key role in solving the problems of small farms, and that the eu's cohesion policy must finance the infrastructure needed by these farms, through the european social fund, social initiatives in the fields of social integration, education and training. the commission is also proposing to increase the number of local authorities.
in writing. - while i agree with many parts of the siekierski report on the future of small farms in europe, i believe that some of its passages contain important criticisms and for this reason i have decided to abstain.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because, in the context of the new cap and for the period after 2020, it calls for concrete actions to help strengthen the present state and future prospects of small farms. small family businesses are rooted in our history and promote the real traditional values of us europeans. they are an important element of the european agricultural model, a central and essential element for the multifunctional development of rural areas. ensuring their survival and growth will make it possible to tackle more effectively the problem of rural exodus and depopulation of rural areas.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mr siekierski. the report provides the right guidelines for strengthening the situation and prospects of small farms. i believe that small farms, especially family farms, are fundamental to the multifunctional development of rural areas and that they are now a very important element in the european agricultural model. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies.
in writing. - italian farmers, and particularly those working in the north-east, are sensitive to this issue and expect concrete responses from europe. our productive reality is also made up of small firms which, of course, have different needs from the giants of european agriculture. the cap continues to favour large market-oriented holdings, which already benefit from the advantages of their size, to the detriment of small farms. the future of a small farm is often decided at the time of the generational change. it is therefore necessary to help these farms so that their owners can work there until they reach the end of their productive lives.
in writing. - the economic and productive assets of small farms must be safeguarded, but some progress must be made in this direction. during the important negotiations on the reform of the common agricultural policy, we fought to ensure that the new cap was not a reform that would benefit the large and medium-sized farms and northern european agriculture, but that it could also include and promote smaller farms. in particular, in the mediterranean countries, including italy, the small farming enterprise fabric is very strong and needs to be supported by community and national policies. however, small farmers also need to be encouraged to network and organise themselves in ways that are better suited to the challenges of today's global market.
in writing. - small farms are a fundamental part of the european economic fabric. in the newly acceded countries and in southern europe in particular, they contribute to the livelihoods of millions of people, to the protection of the environment, of biodiversity and to the preservation of cultural traditions and the variety of the landscape. they are also more adaptable to market crises and help to reintegrate the workforce in recessions. nevertheless, they are given less weight in the common agricultural policy, which is based mainly on area and historical production, than the large farms in the sector. in addition, difficulties persist in accessing union funding programmes for the requirements required. this has resulted in a steady reduction in the number of small farms and the sale of their land to large, expanding farms. with the resolution on small farms, which i supported with my vote, the european parliament calls on the member states and the commission to adapt their policies for the period after 2020 to the needs of these small farms. my continued commitment to supporting small farmers and the sustainable business model they represent for many member states is fully welcomed in the resolution.
in writing. - small farms are certainly a peculiar feature of italy compared with other european countries, and this has its roots in the history, traditions and culture of our territories. in many areas, especially in the less-favoured mountainous regions, the presence of farms, often family-run, is the only source of livelihood and the last bulwark against the inexorable depopulation of entire territories, with all the disastrous consequences of the case. it is therefore a duty and a necessity to protect these small but very important things by means of a series of measures. firstly, the criteria for obtaining funds from the european common agricultural policy, which are too focused on farm size and historical production, should be revised. in addition, mechanisms such as direct sales of products should be encouraged, including through a review of rules which are sometimes too stringent and which prevent these small producers from developing. i do not need to say anything more about the quality of these products, because we all know how skilled and efficient the management of these small farms is, which also serve to keep alive the typical recipes and dishes that might otherwise be lost in the globalised agricultural and food market model.
in writing. - whereas small farms are characterized by a lower level of efficiency, a higher number of employees and a more varied production, and their owners are often older, less educated than farmers engaged in industrial agricultural production and faced with a lack of successors in the business; conscious that small farms are an integral part of the european rural area which provides many public goods, contributing, among other things, to maintaining the diversity of the landscape, ensuring the livelihood of millions of people, especially in the so-called new member states, or cultivating centuries-old traditions and folk customs in the countryside; i agree with the parliament's proposal which calls, inter alia, on the member states and the commission, in the context of the new common agricultural policy and the preparation of the post-2020 guidelines, to take appropriate measures which take greater account of the specific needs of small family farms.
in writing. - although small farms are an integral part of the european countryside, helping to maintain the diversity of the landscape, ensuring the livelihood of millions of people, providing for the livelihood of many families, often for several generations, the current cap framework continues to favour large farms. i agree with the rapporteur that small farms have not yet been treated fairly in the cap and i therefore support the new forms of support for them. small firms could start various types of production and activities, creating high-quality niche productions with high added value. it is also essential to create new jobs in rural areas and in economic sectors other than agriculture where niche production is not able to absorb unemployment. finally, i agree with the rapporteur that not only the two pillars of the cap but also the eu's cohesion policy, which must finance the infrastructure needed for small farms in rural areas and social integration, education and training initiatives, must play a key role in solving the problems of small farms.
in writing. - the report by mrs siekierski calls for concrete action to the new common agricultural policy and the post-2020 guidelines to improve the situation and prospects of small farms. small farms, very often family-run, are seen as an important element of the european agricultural model and the centre of multifunctional development of rural areas; for these reasons, it is essential to make the necessary efforts to ensure their viability and thus help to combat the phenomena of depopulation and exodus from the countryside.
in writing. - mr president, in line with the single market act and the digital agenda, the european union should facilitate cross-border access to online products and content; addressing payment and delivery problems and consumer protection and information; facilitate dispute resolution and removal of illegal content. the aim is to create a more favourable environment for the development of a dynamic single market, which will encourage investment but above all respond to the needs of european consumers and win their trust. the creation of accessible, affordable and high-quality delivery services at european level is an essential condition for realising the full potential of e-commerce.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the growth of electronic commerce because the importance of the internet economy has now been widely recognised. however, there is still a gap between national markets for e-commerce within the eu. the figures show that there is huge potential for increased e-commerce in the eu, as cross-border e-commerce still lags behind domestic sales in almost all eu countries. this potential can only be fully exploited if delivery services respond to the needs of online buyers and retailers in a way that prevents them from becoming a barrier. accessible, affordable and high-quality delivery services at european level are an essential condition for encouraging users to buy online. the consumer's interest should therefore be placed at the heart of the delivery process by addressing issues such as increased transparency, return policies, delivery costs, etc. in order to provide better quality services in terms of reliability, speed and convenience. i therefore welcome all the innovative and interoperative initiatives proposed by the rapporteur, including monitoring systems and the presence of so-called delivery points.
in writing. - i fully share the views expressed in this report. i believe that the creation of an integrated eu parcel delivery market with a single and more flexible legislation than those currently in force in many countries, including italy, is of paramount importance for the development of the e-commerce sector. i therefore voted in favour of the text.
in writing. - recent studies have shown that problems with delivery services are one of the main reasons why people stop shopping online: nearly half of consumers say that the reason they choose not to buy online is because they are concerned about the possibility of a non-delivery, damaged goods or uncertainty about return policies. the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the new rules on the free movement of goods and services, in particular on the free movement of goods and services between member states, and on the free movement of goods and services between member states. member states and the commission should give priority to removing all major obstacles to the development of an integrated parcel delivery market, which should be considered as a key pillar for the construction of the digital single market.
in writing. - the economic importance of electronic commerce is widely recognised: the data show that this is a very fast growing market and that there is a huge potential for growth. however, this potential can only be realised if delivery services respond to the needs of online buyers and retailers in a way that prevents them from becoming a barrier. we therefore urge the member states and the commission to give priority to removing all major obstacles to the development of an integrated parcel delivery market, which must be considered as a key pillar for the construction of the digital single market. it is essential to identify any structural barriers to market access or cases of abuse of dominant positions, through pricing strategies or other means used to close the market to competition, and we stress the need to improve administrative cooperation between national regulatory authorities, particularly in relation to cross-border deliveries. finally, we remind member states to ensure full implementation of the existing regulatory framework, with regard to the postal services directive, eu competition law and the consumer rights directive.
in writing. - the e-commerce market has grown significantly in recent years. e-commerce in the eu could be more widespread if some of the barriers currently holding consumers back from shopping online were removed. consumers are demanding better traceability of their orders, faster deliveries, streamlined returns, more efficient call centres and lower costs for cross-border transport. i think it is important to try to meet these demands and also to ensure that there are more checks on product labelling and that the monitoring systems are strengthened. i also believe that giving greater autonomy to the authorities responsible for controls is a practical way of protecting the union market from products from non-european countries which often endanger the health of consumers. it will be important to improve services and controls within the member states, especially to support smes, the backbone of the eu economy, by facilitating their access to the digital market and by closing the gap with large and established e-commerce operators. this will ensure greater competitiveness.
in writing. - i shall vote in favour of the motion for a resolution on an integrated parcel delivery market for the growth of electronic commerce. problems with delivery services are one of the main reasons why people stop buying online. recent studies have shown that e-commerce is expected to grow by more than 10% annually across the european region over the period 2013-2016 and that cross-border e-commerce will quadruple. despite the economic importance of the internet economy and, in particular, of electronic commerce, there remain considerable differences in the availability of delivery services between different eu member states and between different regions within the same member state, to the detriment of consumers living in the more remote areas with the most difficult access. in this resolution i would therefore urge the member states and the commission to give priority to removing all the main obstacles to the development of an integrated parcel delivery market, which must be seen as a key pillar in the construction of the digital single market.
in writing. - having regard to the report of the committee on budgetary control (a7-0214/2014), agreeing that efficient and reliable delivery services are an essential pillar of a genuine digital single market, with a substantial impact in terms of promoting e-commerce and strengthening trust between sellers and buyers, i voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - the potential for economic growth offered by the electronic market will only be realised if delivery services meet the needs of online buyers and retailers. accessible, affordable and high-quality delivery services at european level are an essential condition for realising the full potential of e-commerce. i agree with all the main points in the honourable member's report, because i believe that the consumer's interest must always be the guiding light in the regulation of the internal market, meeting his expectations and respecting his safety. interoperability plays a key role in this respect, allowing a high degree of efficiency of delivery systems to be achieved. i also believe that creating a level playing field for smes is essential to ensure competition, the proper functioning and quality of the european market. finally, it is essential to strengthen market monitoring and surveillance systems, in the sense of cross-border measures that reflect the evolution of the market and the growth in the volume of the electronic market.
in writing. - to meet the needs of consumers and businesses, it is essential to promote the development of interoperable and cost-effective solutions. logistics operators and delivery service providers should therefore be encouraged to accelerate the introduction of existing innovative solutions and the development of new services. in accordance with the principles of competition policy, it is also important that the commission encourage industry to cooperate in order to present a package of measures to promote the development of a truly integrated european delivery market, based on simpler and more functional processes that help to reduce costs and improve quality.
in writing. - as this report shows, it is important that member states take measures for women who immigrate within the union without documents. these people are in fact discriminated against in two ways: one is gender-related and the other is legal status-related. it is important to protect these women at least as regards fundamental rights and common principles so as to prevent them from falling victim to organised crime, child labour or physical and psychological abuse.
in writing. - the steel plan must be a turning point for european enterprises and workers. i therefore tabled several amendments to the final report adopted today, which have as their priority: to protect a sector of strategic importance for the union as a whole, which is facing asymmetrical and aggressive competition from the new world economic powers; to create a genuine level playing field, including in terms of social and environmental standards, for genuine reciprocity with third countries; introduction of a quality label/certification to protect european steel production; policies to encourage recovery processes for steel production waste; measures for workers through reskilling, active training and lifelong learning policies to ensure that the skills needed for the competitiveness of the sector are not scattered but protected and strengthened. if europe really wants to aim at an industrial compact, it must start with concrete cases, starting with a rapid solution of the many disputes affecting italian plants, such as the acciai speciali terni plant, which is still open more than a year after the european commission or electrolux initiated the procedure, in which plants and workers risk closure and dismissals, and on which i have submitted a specific question to the european commission.
in writing. - steel has played a significant historical role: the coordination of steel production through the establishment of the european coal and steel community was one of the first steps towards european integration. the maintenance of a competitive european steel industry, in my view, is a strategic contribution to economic growth and job creation. the recent economic and financial crisis has affected steel-using sectors causing a significant drop in demand. in recent years, the closure of several plants has led to the loss of over 65 000 jobs in the european steel industry and domestic demand is not expected to recover in the short term. recent data show that the market share of european firms is gradually declining worldwide. the european steel industry is at risk. in the light of these considerations, i welcome the steel action plan presented by the commission. i agree with the rapporteur that it is appropriate to call for international parity in order to combat asymmetrical trade agreements, illegal markets in steel products and scrap steel and excessive control by certain third countries over the flow of raw materials, which jeopardises europe's access to them.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the action plan for a competitive and sustainable european steel industry because the ecsc, the project which launched european integration, was based on the optimisation of coal and steel resources. the steel industry in europe continues to play a key role in key sectors such as automotive, construction, mechanical and electrical engineering and renewable energy. it follows that maintaining a competitive european steel production makes a significant and strategic contribution to economic growth and job creation in europe. the european steel industry has in fact been strongly affected by adverse economic circumstances, including factors such as the economic crisis, the rapid and steady growth of emerging powers such as china, low price competitiveness, etc. supporting the steel sector therefore means supporting economic growth throughout the eu, while also stimulating demand in the main steel-using sectors, including new industries with high growth potential.
in writing. - i intend to vote in favour of the gyürk report. the text analyses the crisis in the european steel industry using a realistic and practical approach and recognising that its real causes are the decline in domestic demand and european policies that are affecting its competitiveness at international level.
in writing. - i voted in favour because i believe that the european steel industry is the basis of european industry. europe is the world's second largest steel producer and boasts numerous technological and environmental excellence. maintaining a competitive european steel production thus plays a strategic role in ensuring economic growth and employment in the eu. the report identifies areas where the eu needs to act to strengthen the competitiveness of the sector, in the face of growing protectionism at global level and highly competitive extra-eu markets. in particular, the report provides: the revitalisation of domestic demand, support for steel demand through improved access to external markets, greater symmetry in international trade rules, better market monitoring to combat illegal practices, the use of structural funds to mitigate business restructuring, measures to regulate environmental impact through the use of clean energy and measures to promote innovation in europe through the use of innovative financial instruments.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the gyürk report because i believe that it corrects many of the principles set out by the european commission in its action plan presented last june. in particular, i welcome the proposals calling on the commission to find a common synergy between energy, environment and industrial policies, as well as measures to increase resource efficiency through the recycling of metal waste. i also welcome the result in terms of the social dialogue between workers and industry, since i am convinced that economic success in the steel sector comes through the involvement of workers in the restructuring and innovation measures of the steel industry. finally, i strongly support the call for a pan-european strategy, so that the restriction of demand does not lead to unfair employment competition between member states. the balance of the european steel market depends to a large extent on compliance with ambitious employment and environmental standards. this report reinforces this principle, while at the same time calling for a long-term strategy to be developed to revive the sector, including the study of original and innovative solutions.
in writing. - the european union is the second largest steel producer in the world, after china and ahead of japan and the united states. the commission established the profitability of the sampled union producers by expressing the pre-tax net profit of the sales of the like product to unrelated customers in the union as a percentage of the turnover of those sales. the challenges facing the steel industry are therefore fundamental for both the union and italy for at least three reasons. firstly, because of the numerous links with other industrial sectors which are crucial for the development of the union, such as the automotive industry, construction, mechanical and electrical engineering and renewable energy. secondly, the employment aspect (there are 350 000 steel workers in the union and 36 000 in italy), which is of fundamental importance in the union in view of the latest unemployment figures. finally, the aspects related to research and development and innovation are decisive. without innovation we cannot imagine remaining competitive, both in terms of global competition and the speed of the changes taking place (environmentally, culturally and geopolitically). the commission's plan is going in the right direction overall and that is why i voted in favour of the resolution.
in writing. - the european steel industry has always been and still is the foundation of the european industrial system, as it makes a strategic contribution to economic growth and job creation in europe. in recent years, the economic and financial crisis has led to the closure of several plants, resulting in the loss of over 65 000 jobs. we therefore welcome the steel action plan presented by the european commission which proposes a series of measures to address the current situation in the steel sector. as a european parliament we also call for measures to be taken to reduce the social impact of industrial restructuring, where possible by using eu funds earmarked for this purpose. we believe that innovation is the engine of competitiveness and we therefore want to see the creation of an increasingly innovative european steel industry, which will naturally require large capital investments with high risks and long payback periods. finally, we consider it essential to use innovative technologies to reduce the environmental impact and the use of energy and raw materials.
in writing. - the steel industry means innovation, growth and employment. the potential for this in europe is very high. the coal and steel sector, which has historically been of considerable importance for european cooperation, represents added value both in terms of industrial production and employment, contributing to the creation of thousands of direct jobs and several million more in the secondary sector. the action plan recently drawn up by the european commission aims to maximise this potential. the committee on petitions, which i chair, has also had occasion to deal with these issues, especially in relation to the ilva case in taranto. in fact, in 2007 a citizen had already complained to the european parliament about the pollution alarm in taranto. the resolution adopted by parliament on a proposal from the committee on petitions stresses the need to develop a new, modern, competitive and sustainable european steel industry, combining two fundamental rights: the right to work and the right to health.
in writing. - in recent years the european steel industry has shown very serious signs of suffering, with the dramatic loss of tens of thousands of jobs. this has been the case for a number of related reasons, starting for example with the global crisis, which is particularly acute in strategic sectors for steel, such as the automotive sector or construction, and whose recovery is unfortunately far from coming. in addition, in recent decades some emerging countries, china above all, have made massive investments in the construction of steel plants to keep up with their high growth rates, creating an increase in world production and thus in the cost of the raw materials needed. the cost of the steel industry in europe is the real problem, because we have a huge energy cost compared with our competitors abroad, who can also exploit social and environmental standards that are not strict. it is therefore only by renegotiating rules and conditions at international level that we can get out of this crisis which has lasted for too long and which is bringing whole areas, such as piombino, which have built the development of a large part of the city's economy on the steel industry, to their knees.
in writing. - whereas, as the rapporteur has rightly pointed out, the european steel industry is at the base of europe's industrial value chains, such as the automotive, construction, mechanical and electrical engineering and renewable energy sectors, and whereas maintaining a competitive european steel production therefore makes a strategic contribution to economic growth and job creation in europe; i agree with the statement that the european coal and steel sector is of great historical importance for european integration and represents the basis of industrial added value in europe and that for these reasons the absence of an adequate industrial policy would risk causing a loss of competitiveness for european industry in the long term, due to extremely high energy costs, and i voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - the commission's steel action plan has a number of very good points, but i agree with the further amendments made by the rapporteur and the other proposed amendments. i particularly support the view that the efficient functioning of the single energy market is a necessary prerequisite for the supply of safe, sustainable and affordable energy to the steel industry. i am also very interested in the report's focus on environmental issues, as europe must continue to play a leading role in the path towards sustainable production and the circular economy. i am in favour of opposing asymmetrical trade agreements, illegal markets for steel products and scrap steel and excessive control by certain third countries over the flow of raw materials, which jeopardises europe's access to them. finally, a key issue that has led me to vote in favour is the promotion of innovation as a driver of competitiveness. the creation of an innovative steel industry requires large capital investments with high risks and long payback periods, so innovative financial instruments that can promote innovation will be key, as will concerted public spending.
in writing. - with 360 000 employees and a turnover of some 170 billion euros, the steel industry has a great weight and a strategic role for the economy of our continent. the steel sector has a strong cross-border dimension, it is a genuine european industry. unfortunately, the numbers are alarming. the european union has an annual steel production capacity of 210 tonnes and 40-50 million tonnes are unused, we are witnessing a slow decline in manufacturing and the news coming in from many member states confirms that the old continent's manufacturing is struggling to keep up with the fast industrializing countries. the steel industry in particular faces global competition, which causes downward pressure on prices, restrictions on imports of vital raw materials, difficulties in accessing new markets and dumping. each state is trying to deal with this situation, but recovery can only come about by joining forces and therefore acting at the continental european level. the european steel plan is moving in the right direction: creating synergies, strengthening integration processes, producing value through increased efficiency, reducing costs, increasing sustainability and, above all, supporting innovation. we call for the cooperation of businesses, to go beyond the "personal" and "team" positions.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr gyürk's report, which welcomes the steel action plan presented by the commission and proposes a series of measures to deal with the present situation in the steel sector. given that steel will remain a key resource for european industry, mr gyürk's text proposes to stimulate demand in the main steel-using sectors, including new industries with high growth potential. it also stresses the need for better market monitoring as a means of helping industry to anticipate demand cycles and the authorities to combat illicit practices.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, i think the objectives of banking union have failed to start, because i do not see much benefit from all this new institutional architecture. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the proposal is that we are building a modest fund and in the event of a crisis it will be the small investors, the savers and the citizens who will have to pay. we are also still ceding parts of our sovereignty to bodies of dubious legitimacy, and the underlying problems are still present. the largest and most profitable activity of the large european institutions is speculation on the markets and lending money at interest has become a secondary activity: if we do not reverse this trend, the economy will never get back on its feet, and all the measures we are discussing today are completely useless.
mr president, the european parliament's vote on this measure before the meeting of the finance ministers is very important and it is important that the european parliament presents itself to the council with a strong and as united a position as possible in these negotiations. the points have already been made, i will not repeat them: verify the actual legal basis of the intergovernmental agreement and, as regards the substance, the excessive length of the transitional period for setting up the fund and the excessive complexity and complexity of the decision-making process. of course, compromises can be reached on this, and commissioner barnier has also made some concrete proposals, but i would like to say this: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that is what mr goulard said. i would also not like bailouts, for example, to be sent out the door and then back in through the window, i would not like the bond between the states and the banks, which they say they want to dissolve, to turn out to be much deeper than we think. when i see eurozone ministers saying: "the more you have to pay to fund the fund, the less resources are available to the real economy" i wonder if we are not making a little joke of ourselves, because this is the underlying problem we have had so far. the objectives are more capital, less debt, more supervision, more transparency. and i would like to conclude by saying that european citizens need this more than the markets do. i would like to conclude with an appeal to the greek presidency. the role of the greek presidency is very important, very delicate. i hope we will not have to say, as virgil did in the aeneid, "timeo danaos et dona ferentes", that is, i fear the greeks who come to us with gifts in the name of the council.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have no more time to postpone decisions on the single resolution mechanism and we must not rush into them simply because the legislature is about to end. we must make this kind of report to the european citizens, who are asking us for immediate and serious answers. the srm, when approved, will give european citizens the assurance that they will no longer pay a single euro to bail out a bank in crisis. we have already proved that europe can be helpful and quick when it wants to be, by approving the single banking supervision mechanism. the text voted by this parliament sets out a lean, functional system which provides for a genuinely european backstop to be in place immediately, but once again the council prefers to opt for an intergovernmental system rather than a genuinely european one, without legal certainty. the idea that each must save himself is undermining the foundations on which it was built and europe is being built. the crisis has pushed us to make a leap forward in the process of european integration - and this is the real paradox - by completing some projects that have been left unfinished, including the banking union. we have made considerable efforts to achieve this. we must be brave and keep moving forward. i agree with commissioner barnier that this compromise can be found, but not at the lower end; i would like to ask you to give us a statement on the situation in the former yugoslavia.
the outcome of the committee's deliberations was, as has just been said, largely positive, even beyond the expectations of the day before. six months ago, none of us could have imagined that we could reach these solutions, both in terms of the time and the merit of the compromises we have reached. i would therefore like us all to judge from this the work we are about to complete with the vote tomorrow. and i would particularly like not only parliament, which will do so tomorrow, but also the commissioner to defend more the work done in these six months, and also the compromises we have reached, even on the most delicate points, because i believe that this can be an important contribution so that the challenge won with the vote of parliament tomorrow can now be won by the commission and the council and do what has not been done in the last 15 years in the next two months. this is possible if we return to politics, if we return to the idea that we must respond to a need we have at the moment in europe to defend our production more, to defend our system of small and mediumsized enterprises more and also to open a new phase of comparison with the other economies of the world and thus rediscover a function of europe in the coming years. i think we must therefore work now to complete this very hard work, as has been mentioned here. it is a very hard work which has been made possible by the collaboration and listening between the different components of parliament, the extraordinary work of the staff, the assistants, the stakeholders with whom we have discussed in these weeks and these months, and so it really deserves to be valued. we do not prejudge, we do not preconceive, we do not determine areas around which to continue a discussion, a comparison, but we move the whole initiative forward knowing that this is indeed an almost unique opportunity. i would like to remind you once again that just a few months ago it was absolutely unthinkable that we could achieve something of this magnitude, so it is worth defending and implementing in the next two months.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is essential for european business to give the green light to negotiations on the reform of trade defence instruments, the main instrument available to businesses to counter anti-competitive practices by non-european countries in breach of wto rules. this is demonstrated not only by what has happened in countries like china, but also by the fact that europe has a soft belly, it has an inability to decide: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we ask parliament to approve this draft, stressing that there are still areas of concern to be resolved, such as offshore zones and the application of the regulations of the states in which the companies are registered, and we ask the council to finally commit itself.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, we have done our work in committee. i have co-authored several compromise amendments to reach agreement and i hope that the framework of what we have managed to vote in committee will be maintained not only in the vote in plenary but also in the subsequent stages with the council. this is an exercise which i think should also be linked to the regulation on which i am rapporteur for the exercise of the rights of the european union - in other words, for retaliatory measures against those trading partners who do not comply with the agreed measures. it is a question of modernising the instruments of defence in a globalisation which must certainly be sustainable and regulated, and it is above all - i say this in reference to the remarks of a british colleague - a question of overcoming the constant shortcomings of the member states, because if we continue to renounce the leading role of the commission and the european institutions in the defence of our commercial interests, we will only end up with small egos which are ineffective. of course, now the work is going on. we must look not only at the relationship with the council but also at the implementation measures, bearing in mind that we need these instruments for our small and mediumsized enterprises, in order to have as fast and as secure a time as possible and above all to make a cultural revolution, in a certain sense, because trade defence does not mean protectionism, it means instead obtaining rules which in a global liberal society must be respected by all.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the need for modernisation has been more fully expressed by the previous speakers. it is certainly the essential focus of this proposal which goes in the direction that we all expected: enhancing and strengthening the tools to increase the sustainability and competitiveness of european companies. in a time of extraordinary economic crisis, the industrial sector, as well as that of small and mediumsized enterprises, must be protected and guaranteed by a clear legislative framework, consistent with the shared procedures. i certainly credit the european parliament for having succeeded in bringing a legislative procedure forward in a timely manner. the distortive effects of fair practices must certainly be eliminated if fair competition is to be ensured on the european market. it is what we need today more than ever to instill confidence in our manufacturing sector, but at the same time to attract new investment. so, a focus on small and mediumsized enterprises and transparency in procedures. on the so-called lower duty rule, other colleagues have spoken. we need to protect small and mediumsized enterprises through a concerted effort. that is what we are doing and we hope that the commission and the council in this final stretch of the legislature can make possible an outcome which until recently was considered unlikely by adopting this package which is a huge boost for the manufacturing sector and small and mediumsized enterprises.
he is seeking the presidency of the council. - mr president, i have followed the debate very closely, following the president's kind intervention, asking me to remain on behalf of the council. the council first respects the institutional powers of the commission and supports the commission's efforts. on the other hand, i must say that i have followed the debate and i share the concern expressed for supporting european small and mediumsized enterprises, european industry, european manufacturing, the european real economy. we have a very serious competitiveness problem. we need a new production model. we will not, of course, follow outdated protectionist prescriptions, but, knowing how we operate within the world trade organisation, we will use all the possibilities available to prevent injustice to european industry and ultimately to prevent injustice to european consumers. i will convey to the council the comments i have heard from both the rapporteur and the other honourable members of this parliament and i hope that we will be able to respond quickly to this need to protect european businesses and the european production mechanism.
in writing. the report on the modernisation of trade defence instruments is part of a wider package of reforms and reorders and improves a whole range of trade instruments aimed at protecting european businesses and production from the negative effects of dumped or subsidised imports from non-eu countries. the new provisions, which we hope the new text will be able to guarantee, provide for a number of facilities and protections for smes to increase their level of protection against unfair trading practices. in this regard, it is appropriate to indicate the measures that would accelerate the timing of the investigation and the subsequent reaction to the imposition of definitive anti-dumping and anti-subsidy duties and would lighten the complaint procedures. parliament must continue to pay constant attention to european smes, which are vulnerable to unfair commercial practices because of their small size and their widespread presence in those sectors most exposed to international competition.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i agree with the points made by commissioner šemeta in his introduction and i would like to start with a question. this is not the first debate we have had on the financial transaction tax. of course, everyone can have his own opinion, but many of the arguments which have been raised again in this debate have already been discussed and examined in the past. so what's new? we must be clear: the new thing is that as soon as the financial transaction tax has ceased to be just a possibility and has become something concrete, a huge lobbying campaign has begun which has also been directed at governments which are part of the enhanced cooperation. it has happened and is happening in italy, in france and elsewhere. so i think we need to come to a conclusion instead: i would also like to say to a colleague who is not here now, mr langen, for whom i have great respect, that we cannot call a choice into question because there is the threat that someone will make the small savers bear the burden of this tax. i do not think there is any direct relationship between the health of a financial market and the amount of transactions that take place on that financial market and if the financial transaction tax will in any way help to reduce the levels of speculation, that will be another of the important successes it can achieve, provided that each of us has always been careful, starting with the rapporteur, mrs podimata, to carefully assess all the possible unintended consequences that may still be possible to act on.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, listening to this debate, one has the impression that one wants to go back, to do a little like the shrimp and regret or forget the choices made in these years. i think instead that we must proudly reiterate what has been a constant of european policies, of which we are proud, in many debates and many discussions, and say that we must continue consistently in this model of energy change, in this model of combating climate change that goes hand in hand with support and industrial development, not against, if we are a little farsighted and if we accompany this choice with the necessary instruments. that is why i think it is necessary, i support the choice of my group, which says that we must look beyond 2020, precisely because of our consistency, our seriousness. how serious would europe be if, on the eve of 2015, it said nothing about the future? without taking into account that these long-term choices, as was said, require years of investment, they require planning. we are not visionaries, on the contrary, we are very concrete precisely because of this choice of clarity, and we have chosen, always for the sake of clarity, binding targets, because only certainty allows us to plan, to plan the necessary investments, innovation and research. so i think we must not lag behind these objectives, if we are to make an effort, we have the instruments - i am thinking of horizon, i am thinking of the structural funds - we must make an effort to accompany these demanding, proud, let us say, and also ambitious objectives with the necessary instruments which the whole world of research and industry and local authorities, public authorities have at their disposal. so i think we have to reiterate these commitments and have the courage of consistency and seriousness and clarity.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i do not share the unilateral approach that europe has been pursuing since before copenhagen, because we are faced, as mrs grossetête has rightly pointed out, with a europe which is responsible for 11 per cent of co2 emissions, so that even if we were to zero them, even if we were to zero them, we would not be able to combat climate change. so there's no point in pushing this agenda so far. why do we have to decide now what we have to respect for 2030 when we know that at the end of 2015 global decisions will be made in paris? so it seems that someone wants to put a little medal on his chest, on his jacket, before the time, because i think that this does not satisfy the greens, the over-ambitious ones, because they also say: "why didn't you wait? we could have been more ambitious". it does not meet the real world of industry at all, because that is the real impact assessment. we see the economic crisis that is pervading europe in an absolute way. if we're so good, why are we the area in the world that suffers the most, the one that doesn't grow, the one that loses jobs, the one that outsources its industries? so we're not that good, we're not top of the class, let's not continue the mistakes of the past, please, let's not continue the mistakes of the past. the european commission's own estimates also tell us that gas prices for european consumers are much higher overall. i am therefore in favour of a european policy with a single objective, but that objective must be realistic and take account of the international context.
in writing. the european union, with the 2030 climate and energy package, can act with concrete measures to boost the industry by recovering the current competitive disadvantage vis-à-vis international partners. the commission has proposed a binding european target of a 40% reduction in household emissions by 2030 compared to 2005 levels. i think that is too ambitious a goal: at this particular moment in history, european industry is suffering and companies are already supporting some of the highest energy prices in europe. i have repeatedly spoken out against a unilateral european objective to speed up the decarbonisation roadmap because it unfairly penalizes our companies which, in the face of a growing gap between energy prices and costs in the eu and in third economies, will have to bear the direct and indirect costs. furthermore, the commission's objective is not accompanied by assessments of the economic impacts at the level of individual member states and of the industrial sectors which underpin the european economy, including the impact on employment. the union should therefore not commit itself to a binding domestic emission reduction commitment before the outcome of the agreement expected at the end of 2015 at the paris climate conference.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the rapporteur, on whose text i agree with everything she has said. i hope, commissioner, that the new season of debate on the merits will begin, also because this control regulation has a fundamental flaw: it is not a regulation on the basis of which the commission is to make decisions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this regulation is not applicable at this time. the limitation of its application is that it is a regulation which, in my opinion, is badly made. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to say that you are a little too optimistic about the emff. the political agreement has been betrayed by a technical attitude which has radically changed certain political issues which we cannot afford to abandon, so it is not obvious that my group, at least, will be opposed to the conclusion of the agreement to which you have referred.
the commission's vice-president - mr president, the debate this evening has shown the importance of this agreement between switzerland and the european union, which marks a significant step forward in administrative cooperation between the departments responsible for competition matters. of course, the commission will keep parliament regularly informed of developments in the matter. as regards the questions raised by mrs băsescu and mr schwab, the swiss government has submitted an agreement to its parliament for approval, where the internal procedure is still ongoing. the first chamber the national council accepted the agreement by a large majority. the relevant parliamentary committee of the second chamber the council of states is currently examining the file. let's keep it positive.
the commission's vice-president - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, many nations share the same ambitions for lasting peace and security in the world. as a result of this common will and intensified efforts by the european union, in particular during the last 12 months of negotiations, the arms trade treaty was adopted in april 2013. i would like to congratulate all the parties involved in this process and also to underline the support shown by the european parliament throughout this period of uncertainty. i am particularly grateful to the committee on international trade and its rapporteur, mr martin, and to the committee on foreign affairs for their support. the union has played a key role in the adoption process to date and will continue to do so in support of the ratification and implementation of the treaty. the commission therefore hopes that ratification by all the member states of the union will not be delayed. the treaty covers to a large extent matters falling within the exclusive competence of the union. it provides, inter alia, for provisions such as import and export controls, which fall within the scope of the union's common commercial policy. during the preparatory stages, the commission, with the support of the european external action service, followed the discussions very closely. it ensured that the final result remained compatible with union law and allowed the parties concerned to benefit from the provisions of the acquis. following the adoption of the arms trade treaty in april 2013, the commission carried out a detailed assessment of its compatibility with the acquis of the european union. it concluded that the texts were fully compatible with union law and that no amendments were necessary. secondly, shortly after the adoption of the treaty by the un general assembly, the commission adopted a proposal for a council decision authorising member states to sign the treaty. this enabled all the member states to sign it at the opening ceremony in new york last june. the union has thus once again demonstrated its determination to regulate the arms trade. the final step before ratification by the eu member states is now in the hands of the european parliament. we know that some european capitals are already awaiting your agreement and the council's authorization. i would like to return to an important point in the negotiating mandate given to the commission in accordance with the provisions of the treaty, namely the accession of the union to the arms trade treaty. this objective, as advocated by the commission, has not been achieved. the commission's proposal for the treaty to allow regional integration organisations to accede to it was rejected at the last conference in march 2013, when china reiterated its firm opposition to eu membership. after this intervention, other major states insisted that the final outcome of the negotiations should not be threatened. that goal had to be abandoned. however, membership of regional integration organisations must remain a long-term objective. the commission welcomes the european parliament's emphasis on this objective in its resolution. finally, i would like to emphasize the support of the european defence industry and its contribution to this process of adopting the treaty. it is clearly in the interests of the arms industry to have the same rules around the world governing the arms trade and the same level of transparency on transfers. the role of our industry in protecting human rights, peace and security is at least as important as that of policymakers and national authorities. the commission considers that a high level of competitiveness of companies in the defence sector is an excellent guarantee of compliance with the rules on transparency and ethics. with the implementation of the treaty, we have made a major contribution to ensuring security in the world, while strengthening the regulatory framework for the arms trade.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, mr vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, let us begin by recalling that some countries voted against the resolution which adopted this treaty. syria, north korea and iran and other countries abstained, including india, russia, china. in the end, these so-called emerging countries should be reminded that to emerge, economic data alone are not enough, but a policy of values is also needed, which they seem to be renouncing for the time being. the european union is playing a leading role at the united nations, and that is a satisfactory fact. we have been the driving force behind much of this treaty and, among other things, the regulation we had already adopted on our exports was taken as good practice, as an example to follow. now the challenge is the implementation. we know very well that the arms market is something that is driven by very strong interests, which can be even underground, which can influence the policies of countries that are often weak, particularly developing countries, weak from a political point of view, with high risks of corruption, and weak also in terms of the resources of administrative and control structures. i believe that the task which europe has to do, because only we - as we have seen in the united nations - can do this, is to help now in the implementation of this treaty. this will be the next stage in our work, which must combine foreign policy, development cooperation and our international trade policy.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, with this package the european parliament has the opportunity to take a significant step forward towards the implementation of a more coherent and coordinated legal framework for the marketing of products, to the benefit of competitiveness and growth. the internal market has been the great engine of economic growth in the european union for the last 20 years, and we need it even more today, in a time of crisis, to accompany the fiscal compact with strong action, which must be supported by all the community institutions. since 1993, the share of internal trade in gross domestic product has increased by about five percentage points: was around 17% of the union's gdp in 1999 and almost 22% in 2011. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the internal market in products is not undermined. many technical and legal barriers have fortunately been removed, but the commercial environment creates new situations and problems which require decisive action. this is the aim of the present initiative: the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european parliament is able to take part in the debate on the future of the internal market. the aim is to build a coherent set of rules to ensure fair conditions of competition for european and third country producers, supporting the reindustrialisation of the european union. i can assure you that for two years now our union industry and the supervisory authorities have been looking forward to this moment. the commission would like to emphasize the excellent cooperation with parliament and the council and the great work of the rapporteur, mrs roithová, and of the successive polish, danish, cypriot, irish, lithuanian and now greek presidencies deserves to be recognized. we believe that the final compromise is an excellent update of the rules for a number of product categories. this adjustment package may, it is true, seem very technical; however, it is of great importance for the functioning of the internal market for a wide range of products: electrical and electronic equipment, lifts, explosives, pressure vessels and measuring instruments. the new rules aim to strengthen and modernise the conditions for the marketing of these products within the union and thus contribute to improving the functioning of the market. a recent independent evaluation of the legislation on the internal market for industrial products found the adjustment package to be effective in addressing the latest instances of divergences, gaps, inconsistencies and duplication of legislation and concluded that this package makes a key contribution to the modernisation and reform of the regulatory framework for industrial products. as you know, on 22 january the commission adopted a communication entitled 'a perspective for the internal market in industrial products'. the commission has also adopted a communication on the internal market, which confirms that internal market legislation is appropriate and is an essential factor in the competitiveness of european industry and in the protection of consumers and the environment. the communication also sets out a broad vision for the next decade and identifies the challenges of the future: the need for effective control mechanisms, digitalisation, globalisation and the increasing integration of products with related services. in short, tackling regulatory barriers is becoming increasingly important in a context of rapidly evolving technology and increasing integration of global value chains and the world itself. it is against this background and in view of the imperative to minimise administrative burdens, especially for small and mediumsized enterprises, that the european union must continue to develop its internal product market. the delay in reaching a compromise is not due to the complexity of the subject but to an institutional dispute which has nothing to do with the substance of the proposal. the commission has issued two statements on this subject, covering all eight directives, which i will be sure to forward to the relevant departments of the european parliament. in conclusion, however, i would like to stress that the commission will continue to cooperate effectively with the experts of the member states and with the european parliament within the legal framework established by the treaty of lisbon. without effective cooperation, no progress can be made. i consider the work on the adjustment package to be a valuable example of effective cooperation. i would like to thank parliament and the council again for their decisive contribution.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, as you have said, the package we are going to adopt tomorrow is very important. it is made up of many seemingly minor technical rules, which many outside observers, when they talk about the european union and the work of parliament, consider to be sufficient. the sum of these rules produces effects of the greatest importance, and i would like to mention at least three of them. the first: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on competition are applied in the community. secondly: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of consumers in the event of a dispute between the commission and the consumer. thirdly, they eliminate red tape and therefore reduce costs, making these sectors and these segments of activity competitive. we need to offer the world models of competition in which respect for the rules, the elimination of bureaucracy and the quality of what is produced are the reference elements, thus avoiding low-level competition which can be of benefit to the emerging countries but which is objectively harmful to europe.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented. as has already been said, this is the first legislative measure on migration since the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, and it is significant that it concerns the most vulnerable people moving through the labour market. we will need an increasing proportion of seasonal workers from outside the union for reasons relating to the demographic trends in our countries, as well as the composition of the labour market. so, having these people, as the solution we are discussing defines, receive equal treatment, which does not discriminate against european workers who perform the same work, is very important for the people who work and for the companies. we must never forget that when the rules are the same and must be respected by virtue of the provisions of the rules, including the penalties contained in the rules, companies cannot compete unfairly with each other, because they are subject to a single solution and workers have the same conditions, which concerns the dignity of work, because collective agreements are applied, because the rules relating to general working conditions are defined according to parameters which differ from country to country, but which have the character of uniformity in the same sector. then workers acquire dignity in the work they do and companies can compete freely without any pollution, especially those caused by the violation of rights or the improper reduction of labour costs. the social partners will also have a role to play, because they will define the sectors in which, country by country, objective seasonal activities take place. we 've seen too many deformations . everything had become seasonal, even what was continuous. it is therefore a very important solution, because it allows europe to have the same rules and standards for the most vulnerable workers and to have a competitive capacity of the production system, starting with small firms, which will no longer be disturbed by inappropriate, wrong and dangerous relations between sectors and between individual production units. i think we should be proud of this solution. i would like to thank mr cercas and mr moraes for the excellent work they have done and all the shadow rapporteurs. we have come up with a very innovative solution, but one which is important for the union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing today how to guarantee non-community seasonal workers the same rights as european citizens, but these days the swedish multinational electrolux is trampling on the rights of venetian, friulian, emilian and lombard workers and blackmailing them. electrolux, to stay in italy and not go to poland, asks the workers to halve their wages and work harder. electrolux wants italian workers on polish wages, but our workers are confronted every day with the cost of living in italy and pay taxes, increasingly, in italy. more than two thousand people are at risk of losing their jobs. we must talk about this, about the many electrolux companies in italy, about the fact that a worker in italy costs the company at least 2 500 euros (in reality it is 1 000 euros net) while a worker in poland costs the company 400 euros, but not only about the rights of non-community workers, but also about the rights of european workers, who are not guaranteed in this europe. we must talk about our fellow citizens who are being crushed by the crisis, about clear and uniform rules which must apply to all companies throughout europe. that is what giorgio napolitano was supposed to talk about yesterday, the real problems of our people and not the air. that's another reason napolitano isn't my president.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner malmström, i would like to congratulate the rapporteurs on the work they have done, and on the participation of the groups who have supported intensive and concrete work with commissioner malmström and her colleagues. the 2010 rosarno riots in calabria, along with other incidents, were probably the trigger for a quick and effective response by the european institutions: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. we can best match demand with supply in a market which also needs to attract human resources from third countries. that's what we did. the possibility of renewing a residence permit, the right to housing, stricter sanctions against employers, the possibility of appealing against decisions to refuse or withdraw a residence permit, fair treatment of european workers and other elements make this seasonal work an additional resource for the benefit of european society, while protecting the dignity and decency of the individual. it is a concrete way because it is one of the five measures on legal migration and we believe that it can be defined by today's vote. we hope - i am sorry, mr president, that the greek presidency is not present, because i am the holder of the other dossier on ict, which is now at a very advanced stage of negotiation - we hope to conclude it in the coming days with the cooperation of mrs jaakonsaari, who is also dealing with the aspect referred to the empl committee, because the whole package will certainly be able to give a concrete response to legal migration by linking the labour market as closely as possible to the specific labour demand of workers from countries outside the european union.
in writing. mr president, i can only express a negative opinion of this report. perhaps the rapporteur thought that this proposal would enable us to reproduce on a european scale the extraordinary phenomenon which existed in the past and which still survives today, namely 'accompaniment'. but we do not want that here, we are not dealing with a tour d'europe project of skilled workers like the old compagnons who travelled around europe building cathedrals, the situation is quite different here! let's ask ourselves this: we have no idea who, for example in southern italy, are the employers of these seasonal migrant workers. the answer is simple: the mob. free movement is good for business. moreover, given the appalling employment situation in all the countries of southern europe, it is simply insane to encourage a mechanism which will favour, at the expense of our unemployed or underemployed, extra-european labour, which is easier to manipulate and exploit.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the nicolai report because it is true that undocumented migrant women are more vulnerable, especially in countries where they cannot access emergency health care, maternity and newborn care or the possibility for children to attend school anyway. in this resolution we call on the commission and the member states to adopt a strong, more homogeneous approach, so that the rules governing immigration policies are distinguished from the protection of fundamental human rights, which must always be guaranteed. access to justice is being granted, also through anonymous complaints against exploitation and above all through investigations into temporary detention centres - which in italy have been called expulsion and identification centres since the league government took office - because it cannot be allowed to detain people, often women, who are victims of trafficking, for 180 days and not just for a month as was previously planned and in conditions of offended dignity, both for men and for women. i think that commissioner malmström should be more specific in his report on this matter.
madam president, undocumented migrant women are subject to double discrimination: the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to provide the necessary financial support to the victims of the violence. i think it is unacceptable that a migrant woman who has been mistreated, for example, cannot go to the police or to a reception centre for fear of being reported. even ngos have difficulty tracking these women, who, for fear of being sent back to their country, prefer to hide. respect for fundamental human rights is a priority for the union. we should therefore close the legal loopholes concerning the physical and psychological protection of women without a residence permit and their children. i therefore wholeheartedly support the recommendations to the commission on strengthening the fundamental rights of undocumented migrants and on sanctions against employers who miserably take advantage of those who are in a vulnerable situation.
in writing. - i support this report because it explicitly recognises undocumented women migrants as a vulnerable social group exposed to trafficking, discrimination and exploitation on the labour market. i believe it is important to encourage member states to work actively to extend the possibilities for undocumented persons to become legal, in order to improve their inclusion in society. i also would like to welcome the ratification by member states of the un international convention on the protection of the rights of all migrant workers.
in writing. - i do not share the positions taken in the nicolai report and therefore voted against it.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr nicolai's report on undocumented migrant women in the european union, because i am convinced that many of these women, who arrive on european soil with children, the elderly or disabled children to look after, need special attention. in addition, undocumented immigrant women are often subject to ill-treatment, human trafficking and forced prostitution. because of the fear of being reported, they do not report the ill-treatment and abuse they suffer, both when they are in temporary detention centres, where they suffer physical abuse during detention, and later in the workplace. we have introduced amendments to ensure that gender-specific training is provided for border guards, who are the first to receive immigrant women. when they arrive in europe and afterwards, women must have access to health care and essential services without any form of discrimination.
in writing. - this report contains the worst of the good-natured politics that this parliament breathes every day. first of all, someone should explain to me what is meant by undocumented migrant women: i think it would be more immediate if they were called by their name, which is underground. and that would make no sense of the relationship, because a person in hiding means that he has entered the union illegally and therefore has no right to remain on european territory. all the rest is just miserable and annoying rhetoric, such as when we read that "undocumented migrants have limited access to public housing and remain dependent on the private housing market". we need something else. the commission has already taken the initiative in this area, and i am sure that the council will take the initiative in the future. the call to extend the scope of the european social fund and the european integration fund to all migrants, regardless of their residence status, is also incredibly absurd: if we really want to be in solidarity with those in need, we have to set objective limits, because we cannot help everyone, otherwise we cannot really help anyone.
in writing. - the situation of undocumented migrant women is particularly difficult, in view of the double discrimination due to gender and legal status, as they cannot turn to the police, hospitals or reception centres for help. i support the recommendations put forward by the rapporteur, particularly with regard to the disconnection of immigration policies from health care, education and the prosecution of crimes against undocumented migrants, as these are fundamental rights that are indispensable regardless of legal status or residence. fundamental rights should also be better protected by revising the employer sanctions directive and the return directive. finally, in relation to temporary accommodation centres, migrants are often held in inhumane conditions and women are often subjected to physical abuse at the time of arrest and during detention. i therefore support the report when it calls for member states to thoroughly investigate complaints of physical abuse by migrants in detention.
madam president, i voted in favour of agreeing to this directive and i congratulate the rapporteur on his excellent work. the agreement allows the development of a fundamental instrument for the defence of the rights of immigrant seasonal workers. immigrant seasonal workers will no longer be discriminated against against by european citizens in terms of working conditions, trade union rights and the recognition of diplomas and qualifications. these provisions shall be accompanied by effective and dissuasive penalties for any infringements. i am therefore very pleased with the result achieved with this directive, which will make it possible to combat the unacceptable situations of exploitation and abuse of seasonal immigrants in europe.
madam president, i voted in favour of the directive on seasonal workers because i believe it is absolutely important to defend and equalise their rights with those of european workers in order to avoid unacceptable cases of exploitation. finally, this directive establishes equal treatment for seasonal workers, immigrants and european citizens in the fields of working conditions, trade union rights, social security, information, access to employment centres, vocational education and training, and in particular the recognition of qualifications and diplomas, with the provision of verification obligations for the member states. it is also important to ensure that seasonal workers have the right to extend their employment contract beyond the year for which they are being offered, to have a residence permit and to change employers within that year. this will certainly free them from forms of dependence which are sometimes the precursors of unacceptable situations of exploitation. i hope that a similar rule will be made in the field of education and research.
in writing. - the need for seasonal workers is regularly felt in certain sectors where many immigrants work underground and in precarious conditions. clear rules on seasonal work are essential to ensure that non-community workers have adequate working and living conditions and to avoid forms of exploitation that border on slavery. it is also important to set time limits because we cannot allow more than one hundred thousand temporary residence permits a year to be converted into permanent permits or asylum applications. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the conditions of entry and residence of thirdcountry nationals for the purpose of seasonal work. i agree with the rapporteur that this directive is necessary to combat the exploitation of seasonal workers. given the growing need for seasonal labour from non-eu countries, a strong regulatory framework is needed both to manage labour migration and to prevent illegal migration, and to ensure equal opportunities and treatment within the eu labour market, especially regarding pay and working conditions. i therefore welcome the provisions of the directive which provide for greater protection for seasonal workers based on the application of pre-defined common criteria, but i agree with the rapporteur that some amendments are needed on a number of points, including seasonal work permits, length of stay, accommodation, sanctions for employers, access to information, checks and inspections, facilitation of complaints, costs linked to seasonal work and, above all, scope, or extend it to include those who are already in the eu but are not authorised to work.
in writing. - the moraes report analyses the proposal for a directive to regulate the entry and residence of thirdcountry nationals for the purpose of seasonal work. the text, while making sensible proposals such as regulating the entry of seasonal workers only if they have a contract of employment, contains aspects which i do not share at all and which would only increase the burden on businesses. that's why i abstained.
in writing. - the trilogue on the dossier lasted more than a year, but a compromise was reached for an agreement at first reading. we have worked to prevent the illegal long-term stay of seasonal workers from third countries, so as to avoid the transition from seasonal work to asylum seekers. in addition, bureaucracy has been limited for applicants to employers.
in writing. - the recent referendum in switzerland and the fierce controversy surrounding it have brought the issue of labour mobility back into the political debate. the mobility of workers within the european union must be guaranteed and we cannot tolerate restrictions which undermine the rights of citizens. that said, the rules need to be clarified to prevent seasonal work from becoming permanent employment in breach of european regulations. those coming from outside the european union, and employers, must know that we are not kidding here and the laws must be respected.
in writing. - seasonal labour requirements are common to most eu member states. a directive regulating the management of migration could bring useful results and ensure equal treatment for third country nationals within the european labour market. i voted in favour of the report on the seasonal work directive because i believe it can help to combat the exploitation of undeclared work by immigrants working within the member states. the directive will establish the conditions for granting residence permits, which will be linked to seasonal work for a maximum of six months a year, and will clearly define the rights of such workers. the member states will have to take measures to prevent exploiters from taking advantage of the needs of immigrants who leave their countries to escape from extreme poverty. we will have to ensure, firstly, that residence permits for the purpose of seasonal work are granted to those workers who have not had problems with the judicial institutions and, secondly, that inspections are increased to ensure that workers have regular permits and have decent accommodation.
in writing. - the civilization of a people, like the european, is measured by the conditions and protections afforded to the weakest. what happened in rosarno in 2010 and how often it still happens in italy and in many member states must not happen again. the support for this directive is fully in line with the principles of equality, dignity and solidarity enshrined in the treaties. the directive leaves member states wide latitude in the rules and quantities of workers who will be able to have their residence permits recognised for the purpose of seasonal work, thus helping to combat illegal and clandestine situations. moreover, the granting of such rights means at the same time the establishment of common duties and rules in the labour market, discouraging behaviour which would make workers in hiding, who are subject to less protection, seem preferable to european workers in good standing.
in writing. - there are some important points in this directive to regulate the entry and residence of non-community nationals coming to europe for the purpose of seasonal work. i am satisfied that there is a demand for explicit guarantees to deal with their applications, such as the need to have a valid employment contract for the purpose of the stay, which specifies the place and type of work, its duration, the remuneration and the weekly or monthly working hours, the duration of paid holidays and also the date of entry into service. in addition, the applicant must provide proof of health and insurance cover for the period and proof of adequate accommodation for the period. in short, these are a few points, clear and significant, which should enable the worker concerned, for a limited period defined by his contract, to live in dignity and to carry out the profession for which he has been requested. if we want to have useful and sustainable immigration, we need clear rules, because we cannot accept everyone indiscriminately, as some false optimists think, because otherwise the results are disastrous, as the italian situation has amply demonstrated.
in writing. - every year, seasonal workers from third countries enter the territory of the union. this phenomenon concerns jobs related to tourism and agricultural and horticultural labour. with the directive on the conditions of entry and residence of seasonal workers, the eu wants to establish the necessary rules and requirements, and also wants to protect these workers who are too often exploited. the eu's legal immigration programme gives member states the possibility to determine how many seasonal workers will be allowed to enter their territory, seeking to give preference to eu citizens and giving a set of rights to these workers with contracts, working conditions and adequate accommodation over a recognised period of between 5 and 9 months.
in writing. - whereas the need for seasonal labour from non-eu countries is a common phenomenon in most member states and a union-wide framework for managing this type of migration could bring real added value and whereas the introduction of legal channels for migration can play an important role in reducing irregular migration and the exploitation that often accompanies it. i agree with the need to establish an accelerated procedure for the admission of third-country nationals employed as seasonal workers, on the basis of a common definition and common criteria to be applied to seasonal workers, and i have voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - the house voted today in plenary session in strasbourg on the report by mr moraes on the conditions of entry and residence of thirdcountry nationals for the purpose of seasonal employment. seasonal workers from third countries will now be able to benefit from better living and working conditions, including adequate housing and a limit on working hours. the legislation stipulates that non-eu seasonal workers will have the same rights as eu citizens with regard to minimum working age, pay, dismissal, working hours, holidays, health cover and safety requirements. the agreement between the ep and the council provides that any request to stay in the community as a seasonal worker must include a contract of employment or a binding job offer, specifying, inter alia, pay and working hours.
in writing. - from now on, seasonal workers from third countries will be able to benefit from better living and working conditions. the right to adequate housing for the period of employment and a limit on working hours will no longer be mere mirages. the aim is to put an end to their exploitation by preventing temporary residence permits from becoming permanent. this is a major step forward in protecting the fundamental rights of the more than 100 000 third country workers who enter the european union each year.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of the report because i share many of the points in it which could facilitate and strengthen the implementation of the commission's proposal. firstly, by extending the scope to include third-country nationals who are already resident in the union but who are not authorised to work under the legislation in force, in order to harmonise the legislation. secondly, i believe that access to information is essential and must therefore be guaranteed, in order to help reduce the risk of exploitation. as regards housing, i agree with the rapporteur that reference should be made more strongly to the requirements of national legislation and practice. in addition, employers should bear certain costs directly related to seasonal work, including travel expenses, visa fees and health insurance for periods not covered by the employment contract. the fact that the employer pays the travel expenses makes it easier for seasonal workers to return to their place of origin when their leave expires.
in writing. - the report by mr moraes establishes an accelerated procedure for the admission of thirdcountry nationals employed as seasonal workers, on the basis of a common definition and common criteria to be applied to seasonal workers. the text lays down the conditions for granting a residence and work permit for a maximum of six months per year and defines the rights of seasonal workers.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the romeva i rueda report because i believe that we must continue to fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing which still exists in some states. however, in view of the importance of tuna fishing and marketing, in particular for valuable species including bluefin tuna and bigeye tuna, the current complexity of the fisheries and marketing measures of iccat, the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas, should be reduced and limited to certain atlantic fishing areas that export mainly tuna and mackerel. for this reason it is still premature to remove all suspicion of countries that potentially resort to illegal fishing practices or to the limits of legality. i therefore believe that the commission proposal (to allow imports in full) should be revised, limiting itself to allowing fishery products from cambodia, equatorial guinea and sierra leone and keeping the ban on bolivia, georgia and the atlantic countries unchanged.
in writing. - i did not support this report because its approval would mean the repeal of the ban on tuna imports from countries which, like cambodia, have never cooperated in the fight against illegal fishing.
in writing. - having regard to the commission proposal for a regulation repealing regulation (ec) no 827/2004 prohibiting the import of products derived from bigeye tuna from bolivia, cambodia, georgia, equatorial guinea and sierra leone, taking into account that at its 14th special meeting in 2004, iccat recognised the efforts made by cambodia, equatorial guinea and sierra leone to address its concerns and adopted recommendations to lift the restrictive trade measures against these three countries in relation to atlantic bigeye tuna and derived products, i voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - the european parliament voted today in plenary on the report by mr romeva i rueda on the proposal to repeal regulation (ec) no 827/2004 banning the import of atlantic bigeye tuna. the regulation dates back to the 1990s, when the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (iccat) was at the forefront of the fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated (iuu) fishing, imposing bans on imports of products from countries suspected of allowing fishing vessels flying their flag to flout international rules and standards and establishing blacklists of fishing vessels. consequently, the flags of the fishing vessels were changed and the non-contracting states became contracting parties, thus lifting the import bans. however, iccat considered that the problems had been addressed sufficiently adequately to lift the bans, leading many to believe that iuu fishing has been almost completely eradicated in the area. the commission has also proposed that the fishing opportunities for bluefin tuna be increased by a further 10% in the case of the atlantic salmon.
in writing. - the regulation in question dates back to the 1990s, when iccat had introduced innovative tools in imposing bans on imports of products from countries suspected of allowing fishing vessels flying their flag to ignore international rules and standards, but as a result many fishing vessels changed flags to register with states that allowed tuna fishing, in turn pushing iccat to include as many countries as possible in the convention. the commission has currently identified cambodia as a non-cooperating country under regulation (ec) no 1005/2008.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the recommendation on the renewal of the protocol to the fisheries partnership agreement between the eu and the gabonese republic. after two years of negotiations stalled, negotiations to allow eu vessels to fish in gabonese waters were concluded in april 2013 and the final text was sealed. in view of the agreement reached on the annual financial contribution to be paid by the eu to gabon, calculated on the basis of tonnage and support for the development of gabon's sectoral fisheries policy, i believe it is right that the eu: comply with the commitments made; provide for corrective procedures where non-compliance with the targets is detected before suspending payments; promote the exploitation of fishery resources by gabon; facilitate the conditions for the operation of the port and tuna processing facilities; facilitate the landing in gabonese ports of catches taken in gabonese waters; verify the availability of fish stocks on a continuous basis, including by monitoring the catches of eu vessels in the gabonese fishing zone; encourage transparency of procedures for identifying total catches and the fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing.
in writing. - the report is balanced and acceptable and that is why i have voted in favour of it.
in writing. - having regard to the opinion of the committee on development and the committee on budgets, i voted in favour of the proposal, considering that the fisheries partnership agreement between the eu and gabon should promote, in the medium term, the exploitation by gabon of its fisheries resources both for internal consumption, in accordance with the needs of its population, and for export, increasing the added value of fisheries activities and thereby increasing the share of the wealth generated that remains in the country.
in writing. - i am in favour of this recommendation because the compromise reached on the conditions for suspending the application of the protocol seems to be balanced and appropriate. i agree that the disbursement of the union's sectoral support should be conditional on the successful implementation of the objectives and actions agreed jointly and that the eu should therefore undertake to verify the basis for the correct use of the aid in accordance with gabon's sovereignty and legitimate choices and priorities. it is true, however, that the monitoring of catches by eu vessels in the gabonese fishing zone needs to be improved: the transparency of the procedures for identifying total catches and measures to combat illegal, unreported and unregulated (iuu) fishing should be improved. i also believe that parliament should be immediately and fully informed at all stages of the procedures relating to the protocol or its renewal, by means of a report from the commission on the results of the programme and on compliance with the catch reporting obligations.
in writing. - the european union and gabon signed a new partnership agreement on 24 april 2013. the protocol is valid for three years and allows the european fleet to continue fishing in gabonese waters. the aim of the agreement is to support gabon's new strategic plan to improve fisheries governance, protect resources and strengthen control in its waters.
in writing. - i welcome the proposal for a council decision on relations between the european union, on the one hand, and greenland and the kingdom of denmark, on the other. the proposal to renew the cooperation agreement between the parties for the period 2014-2020 contributes to strengthening the excellent relations established between the parties. i also support the need for research and exploitation of natural resources on greenland's territory to be carried out in accordance with strict environmental sustainability criteria in order to protect and preserve the delicate arctic ecosystem. it is also desirable that eu financial support should also be directed towards programmes for the human and social development of greenland.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the cortés lastra report on relations between the eu and greenland and the kingdom of denmark because i believe it is right to establish a framework of cooperation for the period 2014-2020 to replace the previous one in order to improve relations with greenland as an overseas territory in accordance with the tfeu. in view of the fact that greenland has been strategically disadvantaged by its geographical location, it should be stressed that the financial support from denmark has initiated a significant change in the growth of greenland. at the same time, the effects of climate change could have a negative impact on its already fragile ecosystem, with consequences for natural and mineral resources. the 2006 programming document has so far had positive effects, leading to sustainable economic growth and greater economic independence for the territory. i believe, however, that the commission is overly focused on the exploitation of natural and mineral resources, which also requires sustainable and strict measures that respect the ecosystem. i think it is right to ensure the neutrality of the proposal and the freedom of the greenlandic authorities to decide on the area or areas of cooperation which will receive eu financial support, with a greater focus on the social and human development of greenland.
in writing. - i do not agree with the changes made by the european commission to this text: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft budget for the financial year. that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. - whereas the influence of greenland has increased considerably in recent years, mainly due to the effects that climate change is beginning to have in this area, and whereas the progressive thawing of the ice will facilitate the exploitation of its natural resources, including minerals, gas and oil, and navigation in its waters for most of the year, making a maritime corridor between europe, asia and america more sustainable, i agree with the purpose of the proposal for this report which aims at strengthening the excellent relations between the european union, on the one hand, and greenland and the kingdom of denmark, on the other.
in writing. - i agree with the rapporteur that the commission document places too much emphasis on the exploration and exploitation of greenland's natural resources, as opposed to the neutrality which should be the characteristic of the document in question. i therefore support the removal of certain references to research and exploitation of natural resources. i also agree with the emphasis on the need to take all precautions to ensure that the exploitation of greenland's natural resources is carried out in accordance with strict environmental sustainability criteria, in order to protect the area's delicate ecosystem. finally, my vote in favour is linked to the emphasis on the role of parliament in the procedure, since this is an act which is solely the responsibility of the council: however, failure to involve parliament in the event of withdrawal of the delegation or objections to a proposal for a delegated act could be considered as a breach of parliament's right to be consulted and of the principle of loyal cooperation between the institutions as set out in article 13 (2) of the treaty on european union.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mr cortés lastra on relations between the eu, greenland and denmark. the proposal for a council decision is based mainly on the text and results of the previous decision, covering the period 2006-2013, which included education and training, mineral resources, energy, tourism and culture, research and food security as areas of cooperation under the agreement. fisheries issues of major importance to greenland are covered by a specific fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and greenland.
in writing. - in line with the econ vote, in which i took part, i believe that prevention is a highly relevant factor in avoiding loss or damage caused by unforeseen phenomena. i believe that the eu is right and appropriate in its action to spread a culture of awareness and prevention of anthropogenic and natural hazards in an attempt to reduce uncertainty in these areas and to prepare citizens for the consequences of natural disasters. this information campaign must be promoted and continued to encourage responsible behaviour on the part of individuals. at the same time, it is appropriate to urge member states to identify high-risk areas and to establish natural disaster response units capable of coordinating efforts, including at cross-border level, to share best practices and mitigate the effects. in addition, natural and man-made disasters cannot be dealt with together and require different types of insurance, thus creating two distinct insurance markets. insurance companies should be encouraged to adopt different insurance systems and procedures and to differentiate premiums according to risk. in addition, the rules on the type of cover, terms and conditions, procedures, withdrawal and complaint deadlines should be more transparent.
in writing. - the terho report is acceptable and well thought out, so i voted in favour.
in writing. - for two underwater: my region, veneto, in a few years (2010 and 2014) suffered the tragedy of flooding. hundreds of people lost everything again in a matter of hours - their homes, businesses, cars. they are powerless because they have no chance to insure themselves and this makes their pain even stronger. i understand them, but i do not understand the behaviour of insurance companies which are supposed to provide these citizens with affordable cover. it is necessary to simplify contracts and provide information on preventive measures to facilitate consumer choice.
in writing. - the risk of natural and man-made disasters and the economic losses associated with them vary from country to country. in all cases, the loss and damage has a negative impact not only on the affected citizens but also on the state budget, which is called upon to help them. the directive intervenes in the insurance market to make insurance a valuable additional tool for disaster management, increasing risk awareness and reducing the moral hazard of citizens. i also share the call for member states, local authorities and private individuals to make further efforts and to establish closer cooperation in order to share best practice and take effective risk prevention measures.
in writing. - the news of the last few days only confirms a situation that we unfortunately already knew well: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. we must also consider the enormous economic damage, which can be devastating in the immediate aftermath, but which can also have a serious impact on the recovery and future development of an area affected by a natural disaster. these catastrophic events are due to a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control, but we often have to admit that man is also responsible, both directly and indirectly. we can do little about the former, when it comes to deliberate actions, for which exemplary penal measures would be needed, but we must do something about the latter through a massive awareness-raising campaign: we've heard this refrain many times, but unfortunately it's the simple truth. without full awareness of the citizens it becomes difficult to cope with these emergency situations, which as such are never easily manageable and planned: prevention measures are therefore needed, combined with greater awareness and commitment on the part of all.
in writing. - whereas prevention is the most important factor in terms of protecting people, including from losses from unforeseen events, and whereas it is essential to pay sufficient attention to precautionary measures in creating a culture of prevention that will improve citizens' awareness of risks, both natural and man-made; i have to say that i am not in favour of the proposal, but i would like to say that i am in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - i shall vote in favour of this report because it touches on a number of essential points in the field of disasters. firstly, prevention, a key factor in terms of protecting people, which can be improved by deepening research and better dissemination of information on possible disasters. i also agree with the differentiation between normal insurance and insurance against natural and man-made disasters, and also with the differentiation on the basis of the insured, i.e. whether he is a family member or a businessman. in this connection it is worth stressing that member states should create incentives for the adoption of insurance against these types of disasters, and also that citizens should assume part of the responsibility through insurance schemes, even if these are not compulsory.
in writing. - we have voted in favour of the request to consult the european economic and social committee on the strengthening of economic and monetary union. i voted against because these consultations, which are totally useless, serve only to justify the existence of a body which costs 130 million a year and which provides 'work' for dozens and dozens of european officials, who are of course very well paid. this is not populist, but simply a matter of fact, since it is the european institutions themselves who have asked that part of the staff of the eesc (and the committee of the regions) be seconded to the parliament, where all the activities previously covered by the committee are now carried out, where the interests of entrepreneurs, craftsmen, workers and trade union associations are represented. this structure used to make sense, but now these same categories are involved in the drafting of the regulations, starting with the initial consultations of the european commission and ending with the direct relations they have with us in parliament. today's vote will therefore produce a useless document, which will surely end up in the trash without even being read: it's good that people know about this, because it's essential to start cutting where it's really necessary and painless.
in writing. - i reiterate today my firm position on cutting costs and waste in connection with the dual headquarters in brussels and strasbourg. this "double" payment is totally irrational, both economically and in terms of work organization. the estimated cost of the dual site is approximately eur 180 million with co2 emissions of between 11 000 and 19 000 tonnes per year. i therefore welcome the position recently expressed in the afco committee: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the environment. it is time to reconsider this waste of unexplained resources, especially in a time of crisis, by starting a process of treaty revision. i also think it is important that members in a situation of financial crisis should be subject to a solidarity contribution on emoluments, on an equal footing with all officials.
in writing. - having regard to the proposal of the european central bank for the appointment of the vice-chairman of the supervisory board and having regard to the candidate's cv, i voted in favour of the proposal.
the agreement between the european union and the swiss confederation on cooperation in the enforcement of their competition laws is an important milestone, marking the beginning of a new second generation of agreements in this field. however, it is concerned about the effectiveness of the agreements themselves, the lack of binding obligations, which leaves too much discretion to the parties, in particular by the possibility of invoking major interests as a reason for not applying the agreement. in addition, it is necessary to clarify the measures to be taken in the event of the exchange of confidential information under the agreement in question, and the possible disclosure or misuse of the information exchanged. these answers are also needed for future agreements with other countries such as canada, china and india.
in writing. - the bilateral agreements which the european union has already concluded to organise and facilitate cooperation between the commission and foreign competition authorities can be considered a success, as they have created a structured framework for cooperation on specific cases and have contributed to more effective enforcement of competition rules. it is therefore right to proceed with a 'second generation' of agreements, starting with switzerland, the eu's third economic partner and second recipient of foreign direct investment. the inclusion of provisions on the exchange of information obtained by competition authorities when investigating the same case will also help to counter anti-competitive behaviour and will therefore benefit undertakings.
in writing. - the cutaş report analyses the agreement between the eu and the swiss confederation to make the application of competition law more effective through cooperation and coordination between the eu and swiss authorities and presents itself as a balanced text full of interesting insights. that is why i voted for it.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for an agreement between the european union and the swiss confederation on cooperation in the enforcement of competition law. the agreement will govern the discussion, use and transmission of information. in an increasingly globalised economic context, in which cartels operate at transnational level, often affecting different jurisdictions, i considered it necessary to approve this agreement, given switzerland's strategic geographical position for the european union and for italy, and the presence of many union companies on swiss territory.
in writing. - whereas stepping up efforts to promote international cooperation in the fight against anti-competitive practices is of great importance for the regulation of trade and foreign investment; i have expressed my support for the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and the swiss confederation on cooperation in the enforcement of their competition laws, taking into account the opinion of the committee on international trade.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of this recommendation on this 'second generation' agreement with switzerland, which also includes provisions on the exchange of information obtained by the competition authorities when they investigate the same case, which will contribute to more effective enforcement of competition law. as the eu's third largest economic partner and second largest recipient of foreign direct investment, the swiss and european economies are highly integrated and many anti-competitive practices have an impact on crossborder trade. such cooperation is very important, especially in a world of globalised enterprises and global value chains, where anti-competitive behaviour constitutes non-tariff barriers to trade.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr cutaş's report on the agreement between the european union and the swiss confederation on cooperation in the application of their competition laws, which allows the exchange of confidential and protected information.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal because i want more regulation of cooperation agreements with third countries on the application of competition policy. in view of the evolving and increasingly globalised economic environment, a comprehensive strategy of convergence in the application of antitrust rules is appropriate to ensure that competition law in third countries is not used to mask industrial policy objectives. the agreement with switzerland serves as input to make the prosecution of international cartels and the punishment of serious cross-border infringements more effective, in order, inter alia, to protect consumers and innovation and, furthermore, to avoid negative repercussions on economies. i think that in future binding obligations will have to be laid down in order not to leave too much room for manoeuvre in defending the relevant interests which may be invoked by the parties and to ensure that the procedural guarantees provided for by their respective legal systems are respected. the protection of sensitive data and business secrets will also play a key role. the national authorities will have to cooperate more closely with the commission to allow for effective implementation of the agreement and for constant monitoring of the agreement. finally, i think it is good to introduce 'second generation' agreements which provide for the exchange of confidential information through secure channels.
in writing. - i found the report on eu cooperation agreements on the application of competition policy unclear in many of its passages, and therefore decided not to support it with my vote.
in writing. - i vote in favour of the motion for a resolution, since this type of cooperation agreement aimed at enforcing competition rules is an effective instrument for ensuring the proper functioning of the market in an increasingly globalised economic environment. i support the desire to promote a consistent approach to appeals against final decisions in both courts. i also welcome the creation of an innovative instrument, namely the exchange of confidential information between the commission and the swiss competition commission, which could also be replicated in future agreements. finally, i support the call on the commission to keep parliament informed and up to date on all kinds of activities it carries out in the field of international cooperation well in advance of the final outcome.
in writing. - i strongly support the ratification of the arms trade treaty by the member states because it establishes the first global regulation for trade in conventional weapons and, to some extent, in ammunition and parts and components. the att will prevent the illegal trade of weapons, international terrorism and organised crime and will limit serious violations of international human rights law and international humanitarian law. the strongest point of the att is that state parties are obliged to establish a national control system for these transfers and to evaluate, before authorising any transfer, the risk that these arms might impair peace and security or could be used to commit serious violations of international humanitarian law or human rights. it is also important that not only trade of arms but other acts such as rental, licensing, grants and transfers of relevant technology also fall under the prohibition.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the recommendation to approve the draft council decision authorising member states to ratify the arms trade treaty in the interests and for matters falling within the union's exclusive competence in the cfsp. the eu cannot sign and ratify the arms trade treaty, as only member states can accede to un treaties. the trade in conventional arms still lacks legally binding global rules, which is why i believe it is essential to define common international rules also to eradicate the phenomena of illegal trade in conventional and non-conventional arms. in addition, cooperation between states on issues related to institutional capacity building, legal advice and technical, material and financial assistance will need to be strengthened. i agree with the rapporteur that there are some gaps in the current wording and interpretation of the att, but i consider it a priority that the treaty be fully and correctly ratified and implemented by the eu countries, not only to provide a sound regulatory framework, but also to serve as an example to the states which have not yet ratified the treaty.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the martin report which analyses the authorisation of member states to ratify the arms trade treaty in the interests of the european union. i think it is essential that trade policy in such a sensitive area should be regulated in a uniform way throughout the eu.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the recommendations on the authorization for member states to ratify the arms trade treaty because i believe it is an important step towards the normalization of the international arms trade. after careful debate in the european parliament's committees on security and defence and international trade, the text supports the adoption of the international treaty and sets out several criteria for the assessment and subsequent approval of the transfer of conventional small arms. in particular, reference is made to criteria for monitoring possible sources of corruption and the social and economic impact.
in writing. - whereas, unlike weapons of mass destruction and landmines, the trade in conventional arms has not been the subject of a legally binding global instrument and the arms trade treaty is intended to fill this gap; i have to say that i am not in favour of the proposal, but i would like to say that i am in favour of the proposal, and i would like to say that i am in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - i have decided to vote in favour of this recommendation on the proposal for a council decision authorising member states to ratify the arms trade treaty in the interests of the european union, as the arms trade treaty establishes common international criteria for the regulation of international trade in conventional arms and, to some extent, ammunition and parts and components. it also aims to prevent and eradicate the illicit trade in such weapons.
in writing. - the arms trade treaty plays a key role in defining the international framework for the trade in conventional arms, establishing common international rules for the regulation of international trade in conventional arms and, to some extent, in munitions and parts and components. it also aims to prevent and eradicate the illicit trade in such weapons. i welcome the fact that it includes criteria of a higher level and wider scope than the att, for example more comprehensive common lists of eu military equipment, including tear gas, drones or military technology and munitions, parts and components. while the scope of the treaty is still limited compared to initial expectations, the focus now needs to be on ensuring full implementation of the treaty by the ratifying countries, including through an act secretariat facilitating cooperation between states in areas such as institutional capacity building, legal advice and technical, material and financial assistance.
madam president, the eu produces 26% of the world's arms and 61% of its production is destined for outside its borders. on 2 april 2013, after seven years of negotiations, the un general assembly adopted the first international treaty on the international sale of conventional arms. the treaty requires each country to assess, before any transaction, whether arms sold risk being used by buyers to circumvent an international embargo, commit human rights violations, or be resold to terrorist or criminal groups. it therefore represents an important step towards a more transparent and responsible arms trade. unfortunately, the treaty does not provide for the european union to accede, so a swift accession and ratification by all eu states is needed to give a strong and shared signal.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution because a legally binding treaty will be able to define international standards aimed at regulating the international trade in conventional arms, making it possible to curb the illegal trafficking and proliferation of arms and, at the same time, generating an environment of peace, security and international and regional stability. moreover, a treaty of this magnitude will increase respect for international human rights and humanitarian law. the failure to regulate the illicit trade in arms means that instability, terrorism, corruption, socioeconomic degradation and violations of various kinds are encouraged. i also agree that the att should be included among the objectives of the cfsp and among the subjects covered by bilateral agreements. while noting some gaps in the current wording and interpretation of the att, i believe that effective implementation of the att and the application of all provisions relating to, inter alia, small arms, light weapons, ammunition and their parts and components, arms transfers and diversion, authorisations, increased transparency in the annual reports and related publications that states parties will disseminate are essential. i welcome the proposal to establish a transparent and robust international monitoring mechanism that promotes the role of parliaments and civil society.
in writing. - i think this text is well developed and worth sharing, so i voted in favour of it.
in writing. - i believe that any effort to regulate the arms trade with certain binding measures is to be supported, since unfortunately this trade is often handled illegally by criminal organizations, which are able to make a lot of profits from this type of activity. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the arms trade is not disrupted by the threat of a nuclear war. so many times these illicit traffickers take on the lives of thousands of individuals, in every part of the world: i believe that the european union and the member states can and must contribute, through coordinated action, to better regulation in this area and to a more effective fight against illegal forms of this trade.
in writing. - the adoption of the resolution just voted gives the green light for the eu member states to ratify the international treaty on the trade in conventional arms. after careful debate, the eu intends to give the green light for ratification of the treaty, but it will not be definitively adopted until after the 50th official ratification, and given the many abstentions at the un, especially from countries such as russia and china, which are still active in the arms trade, it is likely that we will have to wait a long time. the treaty is considered a good step forward in the control of the international arms trade, new criteria for sale and assessment of the interest in the purchase will restrict the transaction and ensure greater control on an international scale.
in writing. - whereas the international trade in conventional arms is worth at least usd 70 000 million a year, and whereas according to a united nations estimate, almost one million of the eight million weapons produced in the world every day are lost or stolen, generally ending up in the wrong hands, and whereas one person dies every minute in the world as a result of gun violence; i am aware that respect for human rights is the cornerstone of the common values on which the european union is built and that, according to the treaties, trade policy, as part of the eu's external action, should contribute to respect for human rights, and i therefore voted in favour of the proposal.
madam president, the regulation on the modernisation of trade defence instruments is an important opportunity to protect our markets and prevent damage caused by imports from third countries which are characterised by dumping and unlawful subsidies. the process of this legislation has been quite laborious so far. this shows the delicate nature of the matter and the existence of conflicting national interests which need to be reconciled in order to give all member states new instruments capable of protecting their economies and markets. the developments resulting from the inta committee's draft, however, give good hope, in terms of consumer protection, of fair competition, of a reduction in dumping practices, and of increased protection for our productive sectors and our products.
in writing. - the proposal for a regulation submitted by the commission aims to reform the union's trade defence instruments, which are the main tool available to businesses to counter anti-competitive practices by non-european countries in breach of the rules of international trade established in the framework of the wto; they are essential to ensure free competition on international markets. i welcome the report in question with particular reference to the provisions introduced with the aim of making a significant improvement to the current system such as the introduction of a number of obligations aimed at increasing the transparency of anti-dumping proceedings, better access for interested parties to non-confidential versions of documents, the obligation to draw up an annual report with information on the use and impact of trade defence instruments. i think this reform is very important because of the wide use made of it by our businesses. the medium-to-small size of these industries makes them particularly vulnerable to unfair trading practices, and there is a strong presence of domestic production in manufacturing segments that are more exposed to international competition. it follows, in my view, that it is extremely important that any decision to modernise these instruments should preserve them and, where possible, increase their effectiveness.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the fjellner report on the proposal for a regulation on protection against dumped or subsidized imports from countries outside the european union. we must do everything we can to protect our businesses and our territories from the aggression of products from third countries which operate outside the rules of competition in the european internal market.
in writing. - i voted strongly for the reform of the trade defence instruments, as significantly rebalanced and strengthened by the vote of the committee on international trade. an effective trade defence system close to business, especially small and mediumsized enterprises, is essential in the complex international economic environment we are living in. it is not a question of raising anachronistically protectionist barriers, but of having effective tools to deal with the growing forms of unfair competition and dumping from non-eu countries, which severely penalise that important part of the european production fabric which continues to believe in the value of producing in europe and which continues to use high production standards, high social criteria and which continues to be an important part of the european social fabric. we are rightly demanding of our companies, but at the same time we must fight to prevent them from being overwhelmed by unbridled competition as a result of the protectionist and distortive policies of others. it is hoped that this strong voice of the european parliament will not be watered down in the trilogues with the council: we call on governments to ensure that there is an effective instrument to protect trade which must remain free, but also fair and based on the principle of reciprocity.
in writing. - i voted in favour because i believe that we should improve the predictability for businesses by informing them of any anti-dumping/anti-subsidy measures at least two weeks before the provisional duties are applied. the committee on international trade unanimously approved a package of 11 compromise amendments on issues such as the creation of an effective help desk for smes, the reduction of the investigation period to 12 months, with the possibility of imposing provisional duties after 6 months, and full and effective information from the commission to parliament. the refund on importers was subsequently cancelled. i am disappointed that no compromise agreement has been reached on the most important and controversial points of the transport clause and the lesser duty rule. the majority of the committee and the members supported the deletion of the 'transport clause' and the extension of the provision not to apply the lesser duty rule. efficiency, reduction of the threat of retaliation, transparency and predictability are key objectives, which together ensure public confidence.
in writing. - the report concerns the amendment of council regulation (ec) no 1225/2009 on protection against dumped imports and council regulation (ec) no 597/2009 on protection against subsidised imports. the revision concerns the application of anti-dumping and anti-subsidy duties on those goods entering our market from non-eu countries. i am voting in favour of the report because it aims to combat unfair competition.
in writing. whereas the commission proposal is designed to modernise the anti-dumping and anti-subsidy regulations and whereas the importance of the issue of protection against dumped imports from countries not members of the european community is taken into account; agreeing that transparency and predictability are essential for all parties involved and are intended to ensure the maintenance of public confidence and the accountability and legitimacy of the instruments, i voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - the european union must raise customs duties as a means of combating dumping by helping small businesses to take advantage of the measures available in this respect. this must also be the case against social or environmental dumping.
in writing. - in recent years europe has seen a progressive deterioration in the global trade situation, due in particular to the increased use of protectionist and distortive policies pursued with determination in different areas of the globe, a situation which is particularly insidious for continental industry. the european commission's proposal provides that, in the event of structural distortions in raw materials, the reasons for such a favourable measure cease to exist and that, in such cases, the level of the applicable anti-dumping/anti-subsidy duty is not limited to the injury margin but may go beyond it. i particularly agree with and support the position contained in the amendments proposed by the inta committee, which confirm and even strengthen the cases in which it would be possible in future not to apply the lesser duty rule, adding in particular, in addition to raw materials, energy and forms of subsidy. i therefore voted in favour of the amendments in question and of the text as a whole voted by the inta committee, hoping that these amendments would contribute to the modernisation of the existing european trade defence instruments in a coherent and balanced way.
in writing. - my vote in favour is linked to those measures in the commission proposal which ensure the effective use of the instruments, such as the reimbursement of duties collected during expiry reviews. i also welcome some of the points raised by the rapporteur, in particular the commission's ability to initiate ex officio proceedings and its real ability to reduce the risk of retaliation, since a producer in a third country can infer which union producer the commission is acting on behalf of. the rapporteur touches on another important point concerning the partial abolition of the lesser duty rule, which could increase the threat of retaliation by favouring the principle of 'paying back with the same coin'. another point which is particularly important to me is access to information, which is very limited for the parties concerned at the moment and which requires a strong approach in favour of a high degree of transparency. in this respect, i welcome the proposal to introduce a notification system whereby legal representatives or interested parties are notified of the addition of new files to the investigation, together with online access to all non-confidential files.
in writing. - in 2010 there was a restructuring of the community fisheries control system which modernised the regime for the control, inspection and enforcement of common fisheries policy measures along the marketing chain. a system that is designed to improve catch traceability, catch quantification, data collection and the application of harmonised penalties across the european union. i support the text of mr thomas' report and especially the proposal to ask the commission to submit a report every three years on the acts adopted during that period, in order to assess the achievement of the objectives and the compliance of the member states with the rules laid down in the regulation on the common fisheries policy.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the community control system to ensure compliance with the rules of the common fisheries policy. in accordance with the lisbon treaty, i think it is right to give parliament (and also the council), as suggested in the commission's proposal, greater powers of control and supervision with a view to limiting the powers granted to the commission. i believe that certain points of regulation (ec) no 1224/2009 should be revised because of their impracticability, for example with regard to traceability and landing declarations. the revision process must also provide for a timely alignment of the regulation with the reform of the cfp and for adjustment to certain principles contained in the charter of fundamental rights which are not fully respected at present. i also think it is right that the commission should take care to ensure the safety of seafarers by choosing the least costly and most economically efficient procedural scenario and respecting the three pillars of sustainable development.
in writing. - i did not intend to support the thomas report on the community control system to ensure compliance with the rules of the common fisheries policy, because it reserves excessive powers to the european commission alone.
in writing. - our fishing industry has already been severely affected by decisions taken at european level in the past. there has certainly been a shared responsibility, on the one hand, of the italian government which did not intervene in due time and, on the other, of the community authorities which were not able to protect the various types of fisheries present in europe, showing in fact little sensitivity. that 's my wish . i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a clear answer to this question.
in writing. - the report on the community control system to ensure compliance with the rules of the common fisheries policy points out that some elements of the regulation currently in force do not appear to be in line with the charter of fundamental rights. there is therefore a substantial need to monitor and adapt european legislation in this area, especially in the light of the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon and the regulatory alignment that this entails.
in writing. - whereas the international trade in conventional arms is worth at least usd 70 000 million a year, and whereas according to a united nations estimate, almost one million of the eight million weapons produced in the world every day are lost or stolen, generally ending up in the wrong hands, and whereas one person dies every minute in the world as a result of gun violence; i am aware that respect for human rights is the cornerstone of the common values on which the european union is built and that, according to the treaties, trade policy, as part of the eu's external action, should contribute to respect for human rights, and i therefore voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. i agree with the rapporteur that it is necessary to indicate certain principles which must be respected in the light of the treaty of lisbon and in the light of which parliament will monitor the acts provided for in regulation (ec) no 1224/2009 establishing a community control system to ensure compliance with the rules of the common fisheries policy, which will be reviewed in the near future. for example, when adopting acts, the commission will have to ensure the safety of seafarers, choose the least costly and most cost-effective scenario and respect the three pillars of sustainable development. the commission is also proposing to extend the delegation of power for a period of three years, after which the commission will have to submit a report on the acts adopted during the period under review, assessing their effectiveness in the light of the objectives of the regulation and the cfp.
in writing. - i am in favour of adopting the proposal, since it highlights some points in the commission proposal which are not particularly satisfactory. i share the principles by which the commission should guide its decisions and by which parliament will scrutinise the acts provided for in regulation (ec) no 1224/2009. in addition, in order to limit the powers conferred on the commission, the delegation of power for a period of three years to the commission, at the end of which it will have to report on the acts adopted during the period under review, seems to me a good compromise. i also welcome the attention paid to the possible violation of the charter of fundamental rights. finally, i support the rapporteur in stressing the importance of respecting the process of 'lisbonisation', focusing solely on the adjustments necessary to bring the text into line with the treaties, while ensuring effective control by the european parliament and proposing a reflection on the powers granted to the commission.
in writing. - i fully agree with the proposal to adapt directive 94/9/ec on equipment and protective systems intended for use in potentially explosive atmospheres. it is important that this amendment contributes to the consolidation and functioning of the european single market, aiming in particular to ensure that such appliances and systems may be placed on the market and put into service only if they do not affect the safety and health of persons and, where appropriate, of domestic animals and property. in addition, by adopting this text we are helping to make the working environment ever healthier and safer, and we must not forget that it must be adequately protected and guaranteed. market surveillance, especially in sensitive sectors such as this, must be rigorous and efficient. i think that this is a necessary and appropriate adjustment.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal because of the importance of harmonizing the member states' legislation on equipment and protective systems intended for use in potentially explosive atmospheres. i welcome the desire to simplify legislation in this area by bringing together the directives and adapting them to the new regulatory framework, which aims to fill some gaps in fair competition and the supply of safe products for the completion of the single market, the creation of a uniform operating level for european companies and the more consistent implementation of technical standards. by aligning the nine directives with the provisions contained in decision no 768/2008/ec and the lisbon terminology, i believe that the following objectives can be achieved: enhancing legal certainty by removing any inconsistencies; increase producer and consumer confidence by enhancing their protection through accurate and transparent instructions and labelling; reduce red tape by making certain procedures, including the eu declaration of conformity, more flexible; finally, provide the competent authorities with the right tools for product market surveillance, by introducing a requirement for member states to inform the commission annually, by taking appropriate action against abuse of the eu mark and by ensuring relevant information requirements also in electronic commerce.
in writing. - the roithova report on the harmonization of the laws of the member states relating to equipment and protective systems intended for use in potentially explosive atmospheres is balanced and analyses the way in which the legislation in force in this field has been updated since the introduction of the lisbon treaty, which is why i supported it with my vote.
in writing. - the report on the harmonization of the laws of the member states relating to equipment and protective systems intended for use in potentially explosive atmospheres fills the gaps in the old regulatory framework for the completion of the single market. the regulatory framework in question has also been simplified by ensuring equal treatment of economic operators and comprehensive product control. the text is part of the adaptation of nine directives whose amendments are designed to increase confidence among both producers and consumers by specifying the obligations of economic operators. in addition, national authorities are given more tools for supervisory controls in order to improve the safety of products on the market.
in writing. - i welcome the amendments proposed by the rapporteur to the text of the directive, in particular on the following points: the improvement of consumer protection by broadening the coverage of the range of situations covered by the essential safety requirements; the reduction of red tape that hinders the free movement of goods in the union market; ensuring better market surveillance by means of more thorough monitoring of distance selling and ensuring that all relevant information requirements are also displayed in electronic commerce. in order to ensure greater fairness, i support the fact that the language requirements for conformity assessments should be adapted to the interested parties. overall, i believe that the alignment of the nine product directives to the new regulatory framework is an important step towards the completion of the eu single market, introducing a simplified regulatory framework for products and allowing for a more consistent implementation of technical standards which will help improve the functioning of the single market by ensuring equal treatment of non-compliant products and economic operators and equal assessment of notified bodies across the eu market.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mrs roithová, which amends a commission proposal to revise directive 94/9/ec on the harmonization of the laws of the member states relating to equipment and production systems for use in potentially explosive atmospheres. the new regulatory framework was adopted to fill the gaps in the current union harmonisation legislation and to complete the single market, ensuring fair competition and a safer product offering.
in writing. - i consider the subject of explosives for civil use to be a sensitive subject, particularly because of the implications for safety and the requirements for their marketing. i therefore support the amendment to directive 93/15/eec, which is part of a desirable reform framework aimed at clarifying the obligations of economic operators on the one hand and strengthening the powers of the national market surveillance authorities on the other. the necessary support must be given by the national states to the authorities which must be able to dispose of the necessary funds to achieve their objectives. i would stress the importance of adapting explosives for civilian use, especially in view of the tragic consequences for human life which can result from legislation which does not ensure an adequate level of protection, safety and control.
in writing. - in line with the vote on report a7-0255/2012, i believe that it is most appropriate to focus on the harmonisation of the existing directives in this area in order to avoid any incompatibilities between them, including those of a terminological nature. as explosives for civilian use are an area which requires a certain amount of attention and regulation, i think it is right to try to remove the obstacles caused by excessive bureaucracy and a lack of harmonisation of the regulations in this area. i therefore decided to vote in favour of mrs roithová's report, in line with the vote in imco and with the ppe.
in writing. - the roithova report on the harmonization of the laws of the member states relating to explosives for civil uses is balanced and analyses the way in which the subject is being brought up to date with the legislation in force following the introduction of the lisbon treaty, which is why i supported it with my vote.
in writing. - i welcome the proposal by mrs roithová. i believe that it is necessary to clarify the legal situation for products which have been legally placed on the market in accordance with the current directive but which remain in storage. the idea of improving transposition through the general obligation to publish transposed directives and the penalties for transposing them on the internet can only be of benefit to citizens, who will have direct access to all information. the modernisation of the directives is important: the eu declaration of conformity may not be provided in paper form only, but also by electronic means. increasing market surveillance in distance selling and clarifying the concept of safety and consumer awareness are also key points.
in writing. - the report on the harmonization of the laws of the member states relating to the making available on the market and supervision of explosives for civil use fills the gaps in the old regulatory framework for the completion of the single market. the regulatory framework in question has also been simplified by ensuring equal treatment of economic operators and comprehensive product control. the text is part of the adaptation of nine directives whose amendments are designed to increase confidence among both producers and consumers by specifying the obligations of economic operators. in addition, national authorities are given more tools for supervisory controls in order to improve the safety of products on the market.
in writing. - mrs roithová's report, for which i voted in favour, amends a proposal from the european commission which revises council directive 93/15/eec on the harmonization of the rules relating to the placing on the market and supervision of explosives for civil use.
in writing. - i also voted in favour of the report on the making available on the market of non-automatic weighing instruments (recast) again for reasons of reducing bureaucracy, ensuring the certainty and transparency of eu law in this field and, above all, for greater protection of consumers and producers. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover more situations falling within the essential safety requirements. i therefore welcome the amendments tabled by the rapporteur as regards definitions, obligations of economic operators, declaration of conformity and eu marking. i believe that these provisions can only contribute to fairer competition between member states and their companies and to an increase in the supply of safer products.
in writing. - the roithova report on the harmonization of the laws of the member states relating to non-automatic weighing instruments is balanced and analyses the way in which the legislation in force on this subject has been updated since the introduction of the treaty of lisbon, which is why i supported it with my vote.
in writing. - the report on the harmonization of the laws of the member states relating to the making available on the market of non-automatic weighing instruments fills the gaps in the old regulatory framework for the completion of the single market. the regulatory framework in question has also been simplified by ensuring equal treatment of economic operators and comprehensive product control. the text is part of the adaptation of nine directives whose amendments are designed to increase confidence among both producers and consumers by specifying the obligations of economic operators. in addition, national authorities are given more tools for supervisory controls in order to improve the safety of products on the market.
in writing. - the rapporteur has highlighted a number of particularly important points and today's recast will make it possible to clarify the purpose of the action to adapt the product directives to the new regulatory framework. the adaptation is intended to increase legal certainty in this area by clarifying the legal situation for products which were legally placed on the market in accordance with the current directive before the new directive was applied but are still in stock. in addition, the adaptation benefits consumers through a series of changes that would broaden the range of situations covered by the essential safety requirements, reduce red tape to the benefit of the full and free movement of goods within the eu and ensure better market surveillance, especially in the field of distance selling.
in writing. - i consider the recast of directive 2004/108/ec on electromagnetic compatibility to be an important step forward in clarifying the obligations that economic operators must comply with in order to market electronic devices within the european market. the amendment complements a provision ensuring that devices are not placed on the market which generate too high a level of electromagnetic waves, thereby risking the proper functioning of telecommunications equipment or other instruments. i therefore support mrs roithová in pointing out that the adoption of these measures is also useful in strengthening the market surveillance instruments of the member states in order to reduce the presence of non-compliant or unsafe products on the market.
in writing. - as this is a report which is part of the same legislative package, i have decided to vote in favour of the report on electromagnetic compatibility. i think it is more than appropriate for the member states to work towards greater product safety on the market and better consumer protection by taking restrictive measures without delay where necessary, for example withdrawing a product from the market or applying criminal sanctions if serious infringements are found by producers. i am also convinced that defending the misuse of the eu mark must be one of the top priorities of the provisions in the legislation.
in writing. - the roithova report on the harmonization of the laws of the member states relating to electromagnetic compatibility is balanced and analyses the way in which the subject matter has been brought up to date with the legislation in force since the introduction of the lisbon treaty, which is why i supported it with my vote.
in writing. - improvement of consumer protection, reduction of red tape and increased supervision: the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. the sectors covered by the directives are all very important industrial sectors, subject to intense international competition, and are assessed to benefit from the simplification and creation of a uniform operating level for european companies covered by the new regulatory framework. we are pursuing this course, taking into account, of course, the competitiveness of the asian countries in particular, in order to give our enterprises the necessary boost.
in writing. - the report on the harmonization of the member states' legislation on electromagnetic compatibility fills the gaps in the old regulatory framework for the completion of the single market. the regulatory framework in question has also been simplified by ensuring equal treatment of economic operators and comprehensive product control. the text is part of the adaptation of nine directives whose amendments are designed to increase confidence among both producers and consumers by specifying the obligations of economic operators. in addition, national authorities are given more tools for supervisory controls in order to improve the safety of products on the market.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the text by mrs roithová, which amends a proposal from the european commission which revises directive 2004/108/ec on the harmonisation of the laws of the member states relating to electromagnetic compatibility.
in writing. - the need to ensure that low-energy electrical materials are placed on the market under conditions which do not compromise the safety of persons, domestic animals and goods when installed and maintained is a fundamental prerequisite for the completion of the european single market and the standardisation of consumer safety standards. the proliferation of such devices as large and small household appliances, lighting products, power tools, battery chargers, and so on, helps to make people understand the importance of attention to this matter. i support the amendment and the further amendments proposed by mrs roithová, which are aimed at increasing safety requirements for children, the elderly and disabled people in cases where electrical equipment is not intended for professional use.
in writing. - as for the other reports by mrs roithová, i shall vote in favour of the report on electrical equipment intended for use within certain voltage limits. i would like to reiterate that the ambitious objective to be pursued is to define fair and just competition between the parties, while never losing sight of the importance of having safe products on the market which comply with the provisions contained in all the regulations adopted so far in this field. to achieve this, it will be necessary to coordinate the efforts of the commission and the member states to harmonise the nine directives by adapting the rules to decision no 768/2008/ec and the lisbon terminology, including the new rules on comitology.
in writing. - the roithova report on the harmonization of the laws of the member states relating to electrical equipment designed to operate within certain voltage limits is balanced and analyses the way in which the subject is brought up to date with the legislation in force following the introduction of the lisbon treaty, which is why i supported it with my vote.
in writing. - the report on the harmonization of the laws of the member states relating to the making available on the market of electrical equipment designed for use within certain voltage limits fills the gaps in the old regulatory framework for the completion of the single market. the regulatory framework in question has also been simplified by ensuring equal treatment of economic operators and comprehensive product control. the text is part of the adaptation of nine directives whose amendments are designed to increase confidence among both producers and consumers by specifying the obligations of economic operators. in addition, national authorities are given more tools for supervisory controls in order to improve the safety of products on the market.
in writing. - i consider that the adaptation of directive 95/16/ec on lifts and safety components for lifts is consistent with the objectives of standardisation and harmonisation of the protection of the safety of users. in addition, it is most appropriate to provide for national market surveillance authorities to carry out a monitoring activity on eu declarations of conformity in order to ensure their adequacy to the quality assurance systems annexed to the directive. the importance of the amendment to the ce marking of lifts and safety components should also be noted. i also agree that member states should be able to take appropriate measures in the event of improper use of the marking.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on lifts and their safety components. i welcome the amendments tabled, especially those concerning the definitions and the responsibilities of economic operators and installers for the conformity of lifts and their components. in this case, safety and consumer protection rules play a central role more than ever, especially where lifts are used to transport people. i believe it is right that harmonised standards take full account of the rights of persons with disabilities (in line with the un convention signed by the eu in 2010) as well as the needs of certain categories, including the elderly and children.
in writing. - the roithova report 6 on the harmonization of the laws of the member states relating to electrical equipment designed to operate within certain voltage limits is balanced and analyses the way in which the subject is brought up to date with the legislation in force following the introduction of the lisbon treaty, which is why i supported it with my vote.
in writing. - the report on the harmonization of the laws of the member states relating to the making available on the market of lifts and safety components for lifts fills the gaps in the old regulatory framework for the completion of the single market. the regulatory framework in question has also been simplified by ensuring equal treatment of economic operators and comprehensive product control. the text is part of the adaptation of nine directives whose amendments are designed to increase confidence among both producers and consumers by specifying the obligations of economic operators. in addition, national authorities are given more tools for supervisory controls in order to improve the safety of products on the market.
in writing. - mrs roithová's report, for which i voted in favour, amends a proposal from the european commission which revises directive 95/16/ec on the harmonization of the laws of the member states relating to lifts and their safety.
in writing. - in an increasingly globalised market, there is a need to maintain a high level of attention to the compliance of products being marketed within the single market with safety standards which protect end users. i therefore support the recasting of directive 2009/105/ec on simple pressure vessels. it is convinced that the new regulatory framework will foster consumer confidence in the single market and at the same time protect manufacturers from cumbersome red tape by allowing the eu declaration of conformity not only in paper format but also in electronic form. reducing the burden on businesses while at the same time ensuring an ever-increasing level of safety and security for end-users is a challenge that europe must continue to face with courage.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the placing of simple pressure vessels on the market because i consider the safety of products on the market to be an essential condition for ensuring consumer protection. to this end, i think it is right that each product, in the light of the amendments tabled, should have clear, comprehensible and intelligible labelling, technical specifications and safety information. i agree with the rapporteur that this information should be provided in a language that is easily accessible to both the user and the supervisory authorities responsible for monitoring products placed on the market. i also welcome the amendments concerning the materials from which the assembly elements and the various components which contribute to the strength of the pressure vessel should be made.
in writing. - the roithova report 7 on the harmonization of the laws of the member states relating to simple pressure vessels is balanced and analyses the way in which the subject is being brought up to date with the legislation in force following the introduction of the lisbon treaty, which is why i supported it with my vote.
in writing. - the report on the harmonization of the laws of the member states relating to the making available on the market of simple pressure vessels fills the gaps in the old regulatory framework for the completion of the single market. the regulatory framework in question has also been simplified by ensuring equal treatment of economic operators and comprehensive product control. the text is part of the adaptation of nine directives whose amendments are designed to increase confidence among both producers and consumers by specifying the obligations of economic operators. in addition, national authorities are given more tools for supervisory controls in order to improve the safety of products on the market.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mrs roithová, which makes some amendments to a commission proposal for a recast of directive 2009/105/ec on the harmonisation of the laws of the member states relating to simple pressure vessels.
in writing. - i consider the completion of the single european market and the achievement of minimum standards of control of goods common to all member states to be a goal of fundamental importance. the amendment of directive 2004/22/ec on measuring instruments is appropriate and necessary. we think it is important to have clear rules, which harmonize the market and modernise the directive, in a sensitive area such as this. we must not forget the importance of legislation which enables market operators in this sector to see their obligations clearly. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on measuring instruments, as i did in the case of mrs roithová's previous reports. i think it is absolutely right that this precision equipment should also be accompanied by information on its use and safety which is accurate, adequate and accessible to the consumer. those specifications should also cover the accuracy classes to which the instrument belongs, the measurement range and the measurement technology. i also think it is right that importers should indicate their name, registered trade name and/or registered trade mark and address on the measuring instrument so that the consumer can be contacted directly. in addition, i agree that, should the supervisory authorities so request, economic operators shall provide a copy of the eu declaration of conformity in paper or electronic form, with a translation into the language or languages required by the member state in which the measuring instrument is placed or made available on the market.
in writing. - the roithova report 8 on the harmonization of the laws of the member states relating to measuring instruments is balanced and analyses the way in which the subject matter has been brought up to date with the legislation in force following the introduction of the treaty of lisbon, which is why i supported it with my vote.
in writing. - the report on the harmonization of the laws of the member states relating to the making available on the market of measuring instruments fills the gaps in the old regulatory framework for the completion of the single market. the regulatory framework in question has also been simplified by ensuring equal treatment of economic operators and comprehensive product control. the text is part of the adaptation of nine directives whose amendments are designed to increase confidence among both producers and consumers by specifying the obligations of economic operators. in addition, national authorities are given more tools for supervisory controls in order to improve the safety of products on the market.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mrs roithová's report, which amends a proposal from the european commission for a recast of directive 2004/22/ec on the harmonisation of the laws of the member states relating to measuring instruments.
madam president, air transport is of central importance to all citizens, but particularly to island territories, and any disadvantage caused to european citizens living on islands is a denial of their right to free movement, which the union recognises as a fundamental right. too many unpunished episodes in that sense. during the last christmas period the right of the sardinians to move was trampled on, for example, by the new livingston company, which arbitrarily cancelled six flights on the alghero-fiumicino route which it even operates in territorial continuity, but i must say also with the consent of the regional board which governs my island. the revision of regulation (ec) no 261/2004, which we approved a few days ago, finally removes some loopholes in the previous legislation which allowed airlines not to compensate passengers in the event of denied boarding, cancellation of flights or long delays. in doing so we are finally protecting and strengthening the right of all european citizens to move and it is for these reasons that i have supported and shared the work carried out by my colleagues in the committee on transport.
in writing. - the bach report analyses the proposal for a regulation on compensation and assistance to passengers in the event of denied boarding, cancellation or long delay of flights and air carrier liability in respect of the carriage of passengers and their baggage by air. i believe that this text is a considerable improvement on the previous proposal and that parliament's work has greatly increased the protection and safety of passengers, which is why i voted in favour.
in writing. - the proposal for a regulation on passenger rights in the event of delay or missed boarding is particularly necessary as the aviation sector has seen a considerable increase in passenger numbers and flights in the liberalised european market in recent years. the old 2004 regulation was therefore obsolete also in the light of several judgments of the european court of justice in favour of citizens. i therefore agree with the regulation and believe that we should not wait another ten years to extend protection to airport parking costs, which sometimes exceed the price of low-cost air tickets, and to airport reception. i am referring to the lack of access to the controls with the consequent queues, the lack of adequate waiting rooms and the transfer arrangements from the gate to the aircraft which in some cases cause great inconvenience to passengers due to the weather.
in writing. - in recent years there has been a significant increase in the number of passengers and flights. however, this increase has been accompanied by a decrease in the level of services, with negative impacts for travellers. i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for an amendment to the regulation establishing common rules on assistance and compensation to passengers in the event of missed boarding, cancellation and long delays because i believe it is important to harmonise the legislation in this area in all member states in order to protect european travellers. it will be important to protect passengers who miss their connections because of flight delays, guaranteeing the same rights as those who have their flight cancelled. passengers are generally not adequately informed about their rights and often have to protest individually against large international bodies. i think it is important to set up national bodies for complaints procedures, to encourage extrajudicial solutions, and it would be desirable for each airport, as is already the case in several, to have a complaints service to speed up the procedures.
in writing. - the rights of the millions of passengers who take advantage of air transport in european skies each year are increasingly exposed to unfair practices and reduced quality of service. although the european parliament has adopted two regulations on this subject, the lack of uniformity and the gaps in the application of these regulations in the member states expose passengers to a lower guarantee of the protection of their rights. the commission's proposal to revise the regulation aims to improve and harmonise the application of passenger rights in all member states by defining rights, simplifying complaint procedures and facilitating the application of sanctioning policies by national authorities. i believe that the strict application of the rules in force on flight cancellations and delays, the transparency of policies on prices, no-show and lost baggage and the effective protection of air passengers' rights must be guaranteed.
in writing. - the house voted today in plenary session in strasbourg on mr bach's report on compensation and assistance to passengers in the event of denied boarding, cancellation of flights or long delays. i agree with the rapporteur that it is appropriate to facilitate the process of compensating passengers in the event of flight cancellations. the new rules would require air carriers to have contact persons at each airport to inform passengers about their rights, complaint procedures, assistance, reimbursement and rescheduling of flights. finally, national authorities should be given sufficient powers to punish air carriers that violate passenger rights and to assess reports on how passengers have been helped to cope with flight delays and cancellations.
in writing. - passengers on delayed or grounded flights must have certain rights on how to obtain compensation more easily and airlines must have clearer rules on how to handle complaints. air passenger rights concern virtually every citizen of the european union. unfortunately, today only 2 percent of passengers actually get compensation after filing a complaint against an airline. the aim of today's decision is to reverse this negative trend once and for all.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of the report because it seeks to eliminate the uncertainties for passengers caused by the incomplete application of the legislation in force. all the main points are analysed and clarified: the right to compensation in the event of prolonged delays, which should be determined in agreement with the european court of justice; denied boarding due to overbooking or, in the case of a return flight, if the passenger has not taken the outbound flight booked. other cases of particular importance are the safeguards in case of repeated flight disruptions, such as in case of insolvency of airlines or failure to establish emergency plans in case of multiple flight disruptions, or the disruption of the flight in exceptional circumstances; the right to hotel accommodation in the event of flight disruption also belongs to this category. all these are cases where there is a high degree of legal uncertainty which is detrimental to passengers. the rapporteur also touches on the right to information, price transparency, complaint procedures, restrictions on checked baggage, loss, damage or delay.
in writing. - although the 2000 regulation is generally considered to be an effective instrument to facilitate crossborder insolvency proceedings within the union, a number of problems have been identified with regard to the practical application of this instrument, including the non-reflection of national practices in insolvency law, in particular with regard to the promotion of the rescue of firms in difficulty, and the description of the subjective and objective elements for access to insolvency proceedings. this is a recurring phenomenon affecting not only large groups but also smes. i agree with the need to shift the focus from merely liquidating companies to giving businesses a second chance. in addition, a public register of cross-border insolvency proceedings is a very useful tool for transparency.
in writing. - the proposal for a directive on the coordination of certain provisions laid down by law, regulation or administrative action in member states concerning the pursuit of television broadcasting activities; the commission's proposals are positive, especially with regard to secondary proceedings, but the focus of eu insolvency law needs to be shifted to giving businesses a second chance. i agree with the rapporteur that i welcome the amendments concerning the scope of the insolvency procedure regulation, because they are necessary in order to bring the text more into line with the acquis. i also welcome the proposal to set up an eu register enabling creditors and courts to check any insolvency proceedings opened in other member states: this will ensure greater transparency. finally, i believe that the commission should concentrate less on the coordination of different insolvency proceedings and delegate the task to a single coordinator who, on the one hand, outlines and recommends a comprehensive set of measures for the resolution of insolvency situations of the companies in the group in order to increase assets and preserve jobs and, on the other hand, is responsible for the coordinated conduct of these proceedings.
in writing. - i think the text is balanced in all its parts and that is why i have voted in favour of the lehne report.
in writing. - the report concerns the amendment of council regulation (ec) no 1346/2000 on crossborder insolvency proceedings, modelled on the uncitral law. these procedures shall apply where the debtor has assets or creditors in more than one member state; the regulation determines the competent court for the opening of insolvency proceedings. the amendments to the regulation are intended to remedy certain 'lack of clarity' which have been noted over the years. i am voting in favour of the text, because the purpose of the regulation is to help a debtor in serious financial crisis, in order to help healthy businesses survive, thus helping entrepreneurs.
in writing. - as this parliament has already expressed in a series of recommendations to the commission, an amendment to the insolvency procedure regulation in the context of eu company law was necessary to harmonise european legislation on insolvency proceedings. we cannot ignore the fact that 'the disparities between national insolvency laws create competitive advantages or disadvantages and difficulties for companies with crossborder activities, which could hinder the successful outcome of restructuring operations of insolvent companies'. i therefore regard the adoption of mr lehne's report as a good result.
in writing. - i support this report with my vote in favour because, on the whole, the commission's proposals are very positive, but sometimes they contain unclear elements, which the rapporteur has well highlighted. one example is the concept of 'centre of main interests', the definition of which should have taken into account factors such as the location, recognisable from the outside, of the main activities of the undertaking, the location of the assets, the centre of operational or production activities, etc. i also support the proposal to set up an eu register, integrated into the european e-justice portal, which would enable creditors and courts to determine whether insolvency proceedings have been opened in other member states. on the insolvency of groups of companies, i share the compromise between the commission's approach, which is based on 'coordination and communication', and parliament's position, proposing the appointment of a coordinator with the task of identifying and making recommendations for the coordinated conduct of insolvency proceedings and presenting a group coordination plan which identifies, outlines and recommends a comprehensive set of measures for the resolution of insolvency situations of the companies in the group.
in writing. - crossborder insolvencies are now a widespread phenomenon affecting both large industrial groups and small and medium-sized enterprises. the availability of sufficient data on the application of the european insolvency procedure regulation makes it possible to address the most urgent issues. the reform process must, for example, aim at a modernisation of insolvency law in the european union that shifts the focus from the mere liquidation of companies to the granting of a second chance to businesses.
mr president, i believe that in the last few days ukraine has shown up a need for a deep review of our eastern partnership project. the major flaw of our eastern policies is their anti-russian, cold war profile. this policy should be redesigned with a view to including a rational approach and not antagonising a country which is not an enemy; because russia is part of europe and should be treated accordingly. another major blunder is our excessive interference in ukrainian political affairs. ukraine is not an eu protectorate; it is a sovereign country with a freely-elected parliament. we should stop telling them what kind of government they should have, what kind of constitution they should adopt and when and how to have a political election. it is not the european union’s business to liberate ukraine and to take sides in its political process. it is ridiculous to ask russia to stop retaliatory measures against ukraine yet at the same time threaten eu sanctions if ukraine does not follow our agenda.
i would like to ask the presidency of the council, and on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative - madam president, i would like to thank all the honourable members of the european parliament who have had the opportunity to speak. the european parliament once again expresses the european sensibility, the faith in values and principles. in recent months, the european parliament has dealt several times with the situation in the central african republic and has made a substantial contribution to raising awareness among european and world public opinion and to activating the council's mechanisms. the central african republic has been a forgotten crisis for too long. the complexity of the problems facing the country is obvious. it is important that the international community continues to be actively involved, over time, in order to address all these problems, problems that are undoubtedly religious, racial, ethnic, developmental, institutional - problems of a state that is not functioning and a civil society that needs to be built. we are fully aware of these great contradictions which must be settled by peaceful and political means. it is extremely important that the foreign affairs council has decided to move and organise a european operation in the framework of the common security and defence policy. this is a very important political decision, also important for the political entity of the european union. there have been many reports of the fact that the mechanism of battle groups available to the european union has not been used. there has been a great deal of discussion in the foreign affairs council on this issue, because we do know that our battle groups provide us with a capability which must, at some point, be used. but the european union's own military committee has assessed the situation and has recommended to the council that we do not use the fighting group mechanism because its characteristics do not correspond to the specific military, political and social conditions in the central african republic. the council has therefore taken very seriously the opinion of the most qualified experts, those who are able to make an assessment, on the basis of the conditions on the ground, with professional military criteria. on the other hand, i consider it very important that we are hosting the headquarters of this operation in a greek city, larissa, and that we are training there the military personnel who will go to the country under french command. it is a move which symbolises and expresses the joint action of the member states and i think it adds value to this operation, in the context of the common security and defence policy. i would ask you to continue to express, in the name of the citizens of europe, the sensitivity and concern of all of us for what is happening in this country so that we do not let this crisis become a forgotten crisis again.
the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes a discussion on the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in syria (2014/2531 ((rsp)).
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to say that the high level group on the humanitarian challenges in syria, a coalition of 19 un countries, met in rome recently, where commissioner georgieva said that although the european union had allocated three and a half billion, the syrian warring parties were not allowing the people to access the aid already at the border. the situation is dramatic. seven million people are cut off from supplies, while in lebanon there are over a million refugees, who now represent a quarter of the lebanese population. i believe that the union should appeal to the geneva conference, in the talks which will resume on 10 february, but also to the un security council, which will assess the results of the group on syria on 13 february, to separate the humanitarian question and to deal with it before the political one, and to demand that a humanitarian corridor be created in all its forms, as we have been asking for some time now, but i believe that it is absolutely necessary that this be separated from the more political question, otherwise i think it will be very difficult for us to respond to a population which is in a dramatic situation, especially with the deaths of over one hundred thousand people.
madam president, it is time for the eu to stop taking sides and positions at every political turn in the egyptian transition. europe should focus its attention on the quality of institution-building. therefore, our efforts should all be directed at strengthening the rule of law and bolstering institutions and economic reform. to that end, i attach primary importance to major issues such as asset recovery. the restitution of frozen assets is – over and above its economic significance – a strong signal against the impunity for corruption and money laundering that has so far been enjoyed by unscrupulous political leaders in egypt and elsewhere. i would reiterate that the only way to build a sustainable democracy in egypt is by following the path of national reconciliation and inclusive political process. any ban, exclusion or repression directed against any political force or actor in egypt repeats past mistakes and leads only to increased radicalism.
i would like to ask the presidency of the council, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative - madam president, the statements made by the honourable members of the european parliament have, i think, expressed the whole range of views which exist in the european union on the egyptian question. the european union's institutional and official position, as expressed by the high representative, mrs ashton, with the support of the foreign affairs council, is a principled, clear and cautious one, and at the same time one which seeks to be effective, that is to say to maintain the possibility of exerting practical pressure in order to complete the difficult transition process towards the restoration of democracy and the rule of law. the situation is always critical and fragile. there can be no political opponents and journalists in prison. the european union is particularly concerned - and always says so with emphasis - about the unacceptable detention of political dissidents and journalists. there can be no restrictions on freedom of expression or freedom of assembly and peaceful protest. i also note the references made to the need to protect women. i have taken particular note of what has been said about the situation in the sinai. i must say that i am personally particularly interested in the sinai as greek foreign minister, because it is the site of the historic byzantine monastery of st catherine, which is a guardian of the site and a treasure of world cultural heritage. the commission has already taken a number of important steps in this direction. the ratification of the new and improved constitution, which provides for respect for fundamental rights, will allow egypt to make a new beginning. that is what we want, what we seek, what we hope for. egypt must not miss this very important opportunity. the cycle of violence must be stopped, as must the actions that lead to violence, so provocations must be avoided, hate speech must be avoided, political statements that indiscriminately brand political groups as terrorists must be avoided. we must also make a conscious and systematic effort to involve all the political forces in this political process, in the reconciliation and synthesis process, in an inclusive process, otherwise we cannot achieve our objective. no political party, no political force can govern egypt alone, only with its own vision for society. it needs pluralism, synthesis of ideas, coexistence. the polarization is dangerously destabilizing the situation with extremely negative consequences for the economy. i myself visited cairo relatively recently and i have had discussions not only with my counterpart, whom we have met many times since, but also with the egyptian prime minister, particularly on economic matters. for more than a year now, the european union, and in particular the high representative, mrs ashton, and the special representatives, mr leon and mr lambrinidis, who will be visiting cairo in a few days' time, have been engaged in efforts to achieve the participation of all political forces in this process, the process of integration, the process of synthesis. of course, when you have constant violence, terrorist attacks, when you have loss of life, the environment is heavy and it's difficult to take the necessary steps. the intention of the high representative, whom i have the honour to represent, is, with the support of the council and the european parliament, to maintain dialogue with all the political forces in egypt in order to support all credible and necessary initiatives leading to the normalisation of the situation, the full restoration of democracy and the rule of law and, of course, reconciliation. i believe that this will have a positive effect on the stability of egypt. examples were given from other arab countries, other countries in the wider north african region. the truth is that historically egypt, because of its size, is not used to copying other models, but it acts itself as a model for developments in the wider region. we must take this very seriously, because we must recognize - and we always do in the institutions of the european union - the particular historical, political, military, social and symbolic importance of the situation in egypt. i therefore consider that our discussion was open, frank, representative of the views held in european societies and useful for the steps we are taking as a council headed by the high representative.
i have received seven motions for resolutions1 pursuant to rule 110 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 6 february 2014. 1 and see minutes
the agenda includes the discussion of the council and commission statements on the eu-russia summit (2014/2533 ((rsp)).
on behalf of the efd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the data we have on this terrible practice are impressive, and it is also worth reflecting on the european case law, according to which there are as many as 500 000 women affected by this phenomenon on our continent. it is true that they are a small number compared with the 125 million worldwide, but this should not in any way diminish the gravity of the facts, especially here. this barbaric custom comes from cultures and traditions far removed from our own, and it is incredible that even today, in the 21st century, we still have to talk about this reality. in italy, according to estimates by the european institute for gender equality, there are about 35,000 female victims of genital mutilation, while there are a thousand girls at risk: we must act now to stop this phenomenon before it spreads to us. first of all, those who commit this crime must be severely punished, because it is not acceptable that anyone wants to bring this barbarity to italy and europe. it is a senseless, violent and dangerous practice, against nature i would say, the product of a backward subculture, with heavy religious implications. europe today, on this international day, should have the courage to say what is really going on, where this practice comes from, from which countries, and which religions tolerate it, starting with islam. let us not hide behind a finger, because it is not with a comprehensive european strategy against gender-based violence that we can combat this phenomenon, which is confined to a particular cultural environment. when europe is ashamed to defend its christian origins, it should remember this and other incidents, to make us understand that we are different from the others, and i say this with pride, because i feel deeply different from those who manage to use even shards of glass or wood, or sharp stones, to carry out this horror that can even lead to the death of these poor girls, after atrocious and endless suffering.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to draw the attention of the european commission today to the priority of violence against women, because when we talk about female genital mutilation we are talking about violence against women. this parliament has already expressed itself with a large majority in 2009 by voting on an own-initiative report on this very subject, but it is still the subject that is not the priority on the european union's agenda today. this is an inaction, a slap in the face, an insult to european women, to the 500 000 women on our continent who have suffered this brutal practice, a slap in the face to 125 million women worldwide and to the five girls who are being put in irons every minute and who look to europe as the cradle of human rights. i am proud that my country has advanced legislation with a law passed in 2006 that prohibits female genital mutilation in our country and provides for the promotion of numerous activities to combat and prevent this unacceptable form of violence. the most important word, the most powerful means and instrument we have, ladies and gentlemen, is prevention, counteraction and prevention. once again, i'm happy about this: my country with 4 million euros - not a big amount but still a sign, an important gesture - has implemented, through the equal opportunities department, an information campaign called "no one excluded" that is aimed specifically at immigrant parents, aiming specifically at accountability for the decision to practice fgm on their daughters. and yet a green number that is mainly dedicated to receiving reports. the european union must therefore aim at concrete measures, at exchanging good practice, and above all at implementing and supporting the un general assembly resolution on fgm, because this inaction of the european union can only be seen as inaction on a subject which is very dear to all of us, but which is also dear to men, i am sure, on violence against women.
madam president, commissioner, we are dealing with a subject which we should not even have to discuss any more, since it is contrary to all the values on which the european union is founded, and in particular to the equality of citizens, to equality between men and women and to the protection of women's rights, as well as to our desire to combat violence against women. i didn't hear a dissonant speech this morning. we have the texts: the charter of fundamental rights and the istanbul convention against violence against women. do we know how many people are actually victims of circumcision? how many female genital mutilations are there? we don't even know for sure. female genital mutilation is a cruel and unprecedented practice. it is, of course, the degradation of women, the degradation of young girls, the degradation of little girls, since this practice is often carried out at a very young age. we must be fully mobilized in this sense for the defenseless little girls. these are cultural practices, but they are also barbaric practices. these mutilations are permanent. they mutilate women for life. they cause health and hygiene problems, leading to death. we cannot admit them. this is happening in our territory and outside the territory of the union. but just because it happens outside the union does not mean that we are not responsible. we are involved! female genital mutilation is a serious violation of human rights, including the rights to health, safety and physical integrity, and the right not to be subjected to torture and cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment. france is one of the first countries to give asylum to women who have been victims of female genital mutilation, and we had to make a law to protect these victims. we must tackle this cultural problem hand in hand with men, with young boys and through information campaigns, especially for young girls and young women. no tradition can be considered valid in relation to this act of barbarism. that is why we have to legislate and i will also vote for paragraph 4, which calls for us to have real legislation at european level to drive this movement against female genital mutilation.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i think we are all very convinced that the practice of female genital mutilation must be combated on two levels. one is the one that mr cashman and other colleagues from the s&d group also mentioned a short while ago, but fortunately the resolution is very cross-cutting, namely that of reaching legislation and harmonizing national legislation, and the european union directive can give more strength in this respect, because in europe too we have different legislation, some of which only protects children who are subjected to this terrible mutilation and others, like in italy, are much more severe, as in other countries. secondly: in the cooperation relations - the commissioner mentioned this earlier - europe must give very strong signals, as some countries have done in bilateral agreements, so that this campaign and the legislation against this practice are included as 'more for more', that is to say with this slogan which we have also adopted in the context of cooperation with countries in particular from africa but not only. thirdly: i am talking about my own country, which has seen, which sees, a great campaign, the green number, etc. we are talking about 6 000 girls a day who are subjected to this practice. so there is a lot to be done in europe, but i think that for the very reason that was said earlier, that unfortunately there are entire communities that experience it as an initiation, if you do not act on the cultural level, on the people and on the community with a form of information starting also from the schools, i think that the punitive approach alone is not enough.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, as has been said, fgm is one of the most heinous forms of violence against women, and particularly against children, and must be combated with all the means at our disposal. repressive action is important but not sufficient. i think it is very useful, as mrs costa said a moment ago, to take action on the cultural side as well. there is no justification for violence of this nature. it's a barbaric, hateful act against girls, so we have to start at school. the european union must always, whenever it defines a policy, which concerns development, which concerns citizenship, add to this policy sanctions and cultural incentives with regard to the dissemination of human rights. that's where we need to step in. we must raise awareness that we are facing the denial of fundamental rights affecting children and women. so repression, yes, but along with repression also great cultural actions.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i think that bringing the question of inland waterway transport to the attention of parliament is a way of preventing it from dying, as was mentioned. the more than 37 000 kilometres involved in this mode of transport have a marginal impact on italy, although this is a very significant margin, because it concerns the most industrialized area of the country and part of the mediterranean corridor, already corridor 5, and therefore certainly represents a contribution to the mode of transport as regards the goods system, but above all also to the development of the port system of the upper adriatic. i would like to remind you that inland navigation, apart from tourism, also has other opportunities, and we were talking about navigable rivers and canals, not navigation. and it's, the theme, if you will, hydraulic. the changes in the climate, for example, have led to particular situations, river flooding, flooding issues, so that some waterways could be useful as a water supply, as well as a water supply for the overall agricultural system, so we must look at the issue of waterways not only from the point of view of transport, but for an integrated system of better use of the land.
mr president, i was just getting the text of the written statement. i believe that by revising the regulation governing air passenger rights this parliament has done an excellent service to the citizens of europe and their demands. with my colleagues in the committee on transport we have approved a more ambitious text than the commission's proposals, which strengthens the level of protection of air passengers, who will finally be able to use new instruments for assistance, reimbursement and competence in the event of flight disruptions. the new text limits to the maximum the grounds on which a carrier can deny compensation to passengers, narrowing the field of what can be exceptional circumstances, to which companies often refer when they deny passengers a refund. the right to compensation in the event of prolonged delays is also guaranteed. another important new feature introduced by the regulation is the prohibition of the 'no-show' policy, the failure to show up for boarding by passengers which occurs when a carrier denies boarding to passengers on a return flight if they have not used the outbound flight of their ticket.
in writing. - the uniform application and interpretation of passenger rights in the european union is a just and appropriate objective, which we have been pursuing for some time. the revision of regulation (ec) no 261/2004 was necessary because of several issues that emerged during the last decade: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules are properly applied. in addition to putting these points in order and updating them, the new legislation increases the protection of passengers. i would say more, the passenger rightly becomes the focal point around which the revision of the regulation revolves. we must always pay the utmost attention to the scale and proportions of our interventions: the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the airlines are not over-penalised and that the requirements of free competition for companies are respected.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr bach's report, considering it appropriate to review the legislation on passenger protection in order to avoid the spread of unfair practices and the deterioration of the quality of services. in view of the gaps in the existing legislation and the lack of uniform application in the member states, as well as the difficulty of passengers in asserting their rights, i welcome the rapporteur's proposals and consider the commission's proposals to be insufficient, or rather inaccurate, although they are in the right direction, particularly as regards complaints. the dissatisfaction of the passenger is often felt, who does not have the necessary information and, discouraged by the high costs of the right to go to court and the complexity of the procedures, decides not to lodge a complaint. in line with the rapporteur's comments, i believe that the following points in the commission's proposal for a regulation should therefore be revised: the right to compensation in the event of long delays, denied boarding, rights relating to accidents, protection in the event of repeated interruptions of the flight, exceptional circumstances, right to hotel accommodation, right to information, complaint procedure, delay on the tarmac, baggage authorised and lost, damaged or delayed baggage.
in writing. - i vote in favour. the current rules in this area are incomplete and the regulation in force is not being properly applied by carriers and national authorities. this leads to confusion among passengers and the industry. in particular, passengers are poorly informed about their rights and dissatisfied with the circumstances and costs associated with the application of those rights. the main concerns were addressed: the right to compensation in the event of long delays, rights in connection with connecting flights, denied boarding, extraordinary circumstances, the right to accommodation and information, as well as price transparency, baggage allowance, lost and damaged baggage and delays. today's vote reinforces the european commission's proposal in the interests of european passengers.
in writing. - the report concerns the amendment of regulation (ec) no 261/2004 and regulation (ec) no 2027/97 on assistance to passengers in the event of flight delay, cancellation or denied boarding. the data states that in 2012 the number of passengers who suffered inconvenience without any reimbursement was 1.7 million, saving airlines 400 million euros. the reasons for this are the failure to apply the 2004 regulation, the lack of awareness on the part of the traveller and the lack of information on the part of the airlines. the commission has put forward a number of proposals: increase the waiting time for entitlement to reimbursement from 3 to 5 hours; the commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market if it is granted in accordance with the rules on state aid. finally, the delay on the tarmac, i.e. a failure to clarify the rights of passengers in the event of a delay occurring when passengers have already boarded the aircraft. in view of the lack of clarity on the above points, i shall vote in favour of parliament's proposal, which rejects the commission's proposals.
in writing. - in recent years, with the increase in flights and passengers, there has also been an increase in the number of cases of discomfort and misconduct recorded: in 2012 alone, we had over 1.5 million travellers in europe who complained about delays or cancellations, without getting any compensation from airlines, which could save hundreds of millions of euros in claims that were supposedly due. all this is because passengers are often unaware of their rights, and the airlines obviously do nothing to facilitate them, while those who should be watching are not always vigilant. this new regulation should improve the present situation, and i must say that parliament has achieved good results, starting with greater protection in the event of 'exceptional circumstances', and limiting the minimum delay threshold for claiming a refund to 3 hours, compared to the 5 initially proposed by the european commission. it is therefore right that there should be greater safeguards and that the right information should be guaranteed, since a long delay or, worse, a cancellation of a flight can often lead to a number of problems for passengers, which unfortunately are often not minor.
in writing. - in the countries of the union there is often no consistent application of air passenger rights, airlines act in different ways without protecting passenger rights in cases of delay, cancellation or baggage problems. the report, which has just been adopted, establishes common rules on compensation and assistance, with well-defined parameters for assessing the circumstances (so-called 'exceptional circumstances') in which airlines are protected when the causes of the inconvenience go beyond their responsibility and compensation criteria, for which they are obliged to reimburse passengers depending on the delay and distance of the flight.
in writing. - the revision of the regulation on air passenger rights has been a great service to the citizens of europe and their demands. with my colleagues in the committee on transport we have approved a more ambitious text than the commission's proposals, strengthening the level of protection for passengers who will finally be able to avail themselves of new instruments for assistance, reimbursement and compensation in the event of flight disruptions. the new text limits the grounds on which a carrier can deny compensation to passengers, narrowing the field of 'exceptional circumstances', which carriers often refer to when they deny compensation to passengers. the right to compensation in the event of prolonged delays is guaranteed. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the transport of dangerous goods by road. another important new feature introduced by the new regulation is the prohibition of the 'no-show' policy, which occurs when a carrier denies boarding to passengers on a return flight if they have not used the outward journey of a ticket. i have therefore supported the revision of this regulation and i congratulate the rapporteur, mr bach, on his excellent work.
in writing. - the transition to a low-carbon economy in all sectors and investment in renewable energy requires time and money, especially at this critical time for european industry. the 2030 climate and energy package can act with concrete measures to boost industry and recover the competitive disadvantage vis-à-vis external partners, but must first focus on realistic and sustainable targets. we cannot make it a binding target for european industry, already suffering from high energy costs, to reduce emissions drastically by 2030 and invest in renewable energy at the same time. there are direct and indirect costs that they cannot bear and a growing gap between energy prices and costs in the eu and in third economies. to avoid weakening our industries, growth and competitiveness and the consequences for employment, these fundamental problems should be solved.
in writing. - the european union has long been committed to diversifying its energy mix, reducing energy dependence on foreign imports and reducing the cost of energy in order to increase the competitiveness of our industries and foster a different development model. the targets set today to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 even more than the 2020 target are fully achievable by each member state, and this house has rightly argued that these constraints are mandatory. some countries have already reached the 2020 target, while italy, which could be the natural platform for renewable energy in the mediterranean, is still lagging behind. i therefore approved and supported the content of this report in the hope of achieving joint action by the member states and greater cooperation with the united states and the developing countries so that even more ambitious objectives can be achieved.
in writing. - i do not agree with the approach of the report which analyses a common framework for climate and energy policies in the context of horizon 2020. the proposals contained in the text will only unfairly penalize european businesses and the economy as a whole. furthermore, there is no trace in the entire text of an assessment of the economic impacts that the proposed measures would have at the level of individual member states and individual industrial sectors, including the impact on employment. for all these reasons i voted against.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it comes at a time when it is more important than ever to choose the right policies for the revival of the european economy. that is why i have always defended, even at the amendment stage, the three binding targets: the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the programme. i believe that only ambitious and binding targets will guarantee the stability and regulatory certainty that will encourage the investments we need. reducing the high cost of energy, which has enormous repercussions for our industries and citizens, can be decisive at this stage. and to do that, we also need to make a strong commitment to energy efficiency, which i believe is the best way to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, to foster new technologies, to create jobs and to transform economies to be greener. the import of oil and gas costs the european union more than 500 billion euros, and it is time to change course. we must act quickly and use these resources for the economy and for employment, starting with the green economy.
in writing. - the main problem with the 2030 climate and energy package is that it provides neither concrete measures to boost competitiveness nor signs of medium- to long-term stability to support investment decisions. today's proposal undermines any expectation of european companies to have a solid legislative framework for investment and innovation in europe, making it independent of energy imports. it is pointless to go into the debate on targets, but it is important to note that even the single 40% greenhouse gas target will result in a much heavier target than the current one for the ets (43% compared to 2005 emissions). the question of european compensation for the indirect costs of the ets for the electricity-intensive sectors is not addressed in the ets reform package, whereas the institutionalisation of backloading is proposed. environmental challenges must be supported, but not at the expense of a 15 to 20 per cent increase in the wholesale price of electricity, which further widenes the gap with us industry, which already pays over 50 per cent less for energy than european industry. moreover, the application to member states alone implies further, heavy efforts to reduce emissions by industry, in the face of the indifference of other countries.
in writing. - the report under consideration seems to me to be well balanced and therefore has my full support. firstly, because it does not hide behind a false moralism and recognises the historical responsibility of the eu and other countries responsible for gas emissions. we must not forget, however, that the time available for action is rapidly shortening and that measures to protect the environment are now of paramount importance. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet its energy needs. the carbon footprint of transport must be reduced, but we must not forget that biofuels do not yet meet the expectations in terms of significant emission reductions. the proposed approach therefore balances the need to promote emission reductions with the current capabilities of european industry and the economy.
in writing. - today the european parliament wanted to send a strong signal to the eu council of ministers: the banking union must be completed swiftly. the single resolution mechanism must be brought into operation immediately so that banking crises are no longer the burden of the citizens. the aim is to create a single fund which will be effective and, above all, swift in the event of a banking crisis. in addition to supervision, the aim is also to ensure greater access to credit for businesses and citizens. it goes without saying how important this agreement is to prevent new global financial crises. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr ferreira's report because i believe that it is urgent and appropriate to complete the banking union so that the eu and its economy can be supported by a sound and functioning financial sector. harmonising national and european banking policies is essential to stabilise the internal market in financial services and to remedy the fragmentation of individual financial markets which has been the legacy of the crisis. the regulation provides for the creation of a single resolution mechanism, the srm, in which member states are free to participate or not, which will be managed by a single resolution committee. at the same time, the commission also proposed a directive for the establishment of a framework for the reorganisation and resolution of credit institutions and investment firms to be developed at national level. the objective is to harmonise prudential and bank resolution requirements for both srm and non-srm states. the aim of the ssm is to provide effective procedures for the resolution of failing banks, seeking to minimise the impact on taxpayers and the wider economy and in turn complementing the single supervisory mechanism, the ssm.
in writing. - i found the ferreira report unbalanced and unworkable, and that is why i did not vote for it.
in writing. - the house voted today in plenary session in strasbourg on the report by mr ferreira on banks in difficulty. the parliament's negotiating mandate provides for a lean decision-making system capable of liquidating a bank in a weekend. the main role is given to the banking supervisor and the resolution authority to ensure that the process of closing a bank does not lead to political paralysis. the mandate would also allow the resolution fund to tap into funding in its early years, so as to ensure that it is effective from the outset, and not just when it reaches its cruising fund level after 10 years.
in writing. - we must not waste any more time and ensure that the taxpayer is not the first to come to the rescue of the banks in difficulty: the decision-making process for the winding-up of a bank is too complex and politicized. the resolution fund, as structured, would also have great difficulty in gaining credibility. the negotiations currently under way on the single resolution mechanism for banks in difficulty must proceed without the council insisting on wasting time.
in writing. - creating a banking union in the eu to increase financial stability is crucial to ensuring that the european economy can rely on a functioning financial sector. the single resolution mechanism will be a strategic element in achieving this objective. the proper functioning of these mechanisms is, however, linked to the proper application of a single set of rules for all failing banks in the participating member states, while providing effective procedures to deal with bank failures and minimising the cost to taxpayers and the economy. i am in favour of adopting this report because the supervision of banks must be exercised by the same level of authority. furthermore, article 41 of the proposed regulation guarantees the democratic nature of the mechanism, stating that the committee of the mechanism is responsible to the european parliament, the council and the commission for the implementation of the regulation and must send an annual report to the european parliament, the council, the commission and the european court of auditors and its executive director must appear before the parliament, the council and the commission.
in writing. - the objective of the single mechanism is to apply the same set of rules to all credit institutions in the participating member states, as well as to offer effective procedures to deal with banking crises, minimising the costs to taxpayers and the economy. the regulation will establish a single resolution fund for banks in crisis, which will be financed by contributions equal to 1% of the value of their deposits. it is also planned that, at the end of a transitional period of 10 years, the fund will be able to count on approximately eur 55 million.
in writing. - i voted against the implementing act which provides for the possibility of omitting the place of birth of the slaughtered animal, whether it be a pig, sheep, goat or poultry, from the labels.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution by the european parliament, which calls on the commission to withdraw an implementing regulation on the indication of the country of origin or place of provenance of fresh, chilled or frozen meat of various animal species. the measure proposed by the european commission was very ambiguous and did not go in the direction of proper information, labelling and traceability, according to a model on which we have been insisting for some time. european consumers must know exactly what they are eating and where the products on our tables come from. generic and approximate indications, such as the mere eu/non-eu designation, cannot be accepted, because they would also risk setting dangerous precedents. we therefore ask the european commission to draw up a revised version of the implementing regulation, which would require the place of birth, rearing and slaughter of the animal to be indicated on the label of unprocessed meat from animals of the porcine, ovine, caprine and poultry species: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's citizens are informed and are able to make better choices.
in writing. - we voted against because the withdrawal of the regulation, the result of a long and painful mediation, would penalise consumers and businesses. we hope, however, that the next legislature will be able to determine an extension of the current regulation which may also indicate the country of birth for pigs, sheep and goats.
in writing. - my vote is to reiterate the need to maintain regulation (eu) no 1337/2013, as this regulation strikes the right balance between the need to inform consumers in the union and the economic costs for industrial companies. the regulation will improve consumer information without compromising the economic challenges facing the european meat industry. the current regulation is already able to provide clear, uniform rules for the three animal species covered and shared by the 28 member states, and also establishes a definition of the term 'raised in' according to the respective production cycles of the different species in order to ensure that the animal in question has spent a substantial part of its life in the member states concerned. finally, i do not think that any changes are necessary, since operators are given the possibility of replacing the words 'raised in' and 'slaughtered in' with the indication 'origin' for meat wholly obtained (born/raised/slaughtered) in a member state.
in writing. - i did not intend to support the delegated act on the application of a system of generalised tariff preferences, because i believe that such a structure would limit the right of parliament to express its views on each individual country.
in writing. - the single delegated act adopted by the commission significantly limits the scrutiny powers of the co-legislators, obliging them, in the event of an objection to a candidate country, to object to the entire delegated act, penalising all eligible candidates included in the delegated act in question. for this reason, i support the objection of the european parliament to the delegated regulation defining annex iii to regulation (eu) no 978/2012 on the application of a scheme of generalised tariff preferences (c(2013) 9133); i also support the request to submit a new delegated act to take this objection into account and to adopt a separate delegated act for each country that it wishes to add to the list of gsp+ beneficiary countries.
in writing. - i did not intend to support with my vote the resolution that analyses the greenhouse gas emission allowances to be auctioned in the period 2013-2020.
in writing. - i am voting against this text because i do not think the commission's proposal is ambitious enough, especially when compared with the great achievements made so far in terms of greenhouse gas emissions. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment-related aspects of the environment.
in writing. - i voted against this resolution because i could not agree less with its approach to the ukrainian crisis. ukraine is not an eu protectorate. it is a sovereign country with a freely elected parliament. we should stop telling them what kind of government they should have, what kind of constitution they should adopt, and when and how to hold elections. it is not the european union’s business to ‘liberate’ ukraine or to take sides in its political process. it is ridiculous to ask russia to stop retaliatory measures against ukraine and, at the same time, to threaten eu sanctions if it does not follow our diktat. i believe that the latest events in ukraine show, instead, the need for a thorough review of the eastern partnership project. this policy should be redesigned with a view of including russia in its scope and not antagonising a country which is not an enemy – because russia is part of europe and should be treated accordingly.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the situation in ukraine to express my full support and solidarity with all those who have recently been working for respect for democracy, human rights and the rule of law, in line with the founding pillars of the eu. my vote in favour is intended to condemn the violence and abuse of power against those who are trying to defend their rights in ukraine. i think it is appropriate for the eu to voice its dissent about the continued violation of the inalienable rights of the individual and the lack of dialogue between political leaders. i believe that restoring the balance of power and preventing further escalation of the conflict is the eu's top priority. a joint effort is needed to assist ukraine in overcoming the crisis by identifying ways to provide medical assistance and financial and social support to the victims, and to help it initiate the necessary political reforms. developing constructive relations with russia and the eastern partnership countries will also play a key role, especially with regard to the signing of the association agreement.
in writing. - this resolution should represent the european parliament's view of the dramatic situation in ukraine for several weeks now. in all honesty, i don't feel like making superficial judgments from the outside, about who's right and who's wrong. i am not saying that we should not condemn violence, regardless of who is using it. it is precisely to examine this question in depth, which is also of strategic importance for the future of the european union and its relations with the east, that i have decided to invite natalia vitrenko, an economist and politician from the ukrainian socialist progressive party (psp), to the european parliament at the end of the month. i am bound by a common struggle for the separation of banking, but on this occasion i hope that your presence will also serve to clarify further the situation that the former soviet country is experiencing. in any case, i hope that the ukrainian people will always be the ones to decide their own future, without any interference whatsoever, not even from the european union.
in writing. - today in strasbourg we voted on the joint resolution on the situation in ukraine. in this resolution we condemned the violence against peaceful protesters in ukraine and called on the eu and its member states to take immediate measures, such as travel restrictions and asset freezes, against all ukrainian officials and legislators and their business sponsors (oligarchs) responsible for the repression and death of protesters. we also called for a 'concrete long-term financial support package' for ukraine which should be offered to a new credible transitional government in order to alleviate the current difficult payments situation. following requests from ordinary ukrainian citizens, activists and politicians, we have called on the conference of presidents of the ep to establish as soon as possible a permanent mission of the european parliament in ukraine in order to facilitate dialogue between the parties.
in writing. - the european union and its member states should consider applying targeted sanctions, such as travel restrictions and asset freezes, to those responsible for the killing of ukrainian protesters. all violence must cease immediately. europe must make its voice heard in a convinced, unbiased way, including by supporting the country through a concrete and long-term financial support package to be offered to a new transitional government that is credible and capable of alleviating the current difficult situation in payments.
in writing. - the democratic spirit and resilience shown by the ukrainian people after two months of protests has found my full support and my vote in favour of the joint resolution under consideration. the support and solidarity of the ukrainian people is the least that parliament can do to promote democratic principles in the country. the political crisis in ukraine and the violation of certain basic principles of the human person are very worrying and must be condemned without hesitation. the call to stop the use of force against protesters is accompanied by an appeal to the latter not to respond with the same coin. the eu remains ready to sign the association/free trade agreement with ukraine as soon as this political crisis is over and the applicable conditions are again met. the repeal of the anti-protest laws are already a step forward by the government towards resolving the crisis, but the unconditional release of the protesters would be a further step towards dialogue and social peace.
in writing. - i support this resolution because it expresses our deep concerns over the devastating effects of the violent crisis in syria, which has resulted in mass suffering for the population, and which constitutes a major threat to stability and security in the entire middle east region and beyond. i strongly believe that there is no military solution to this crisis and that any lasting solution can be achieved only through a syrian-led political process. i also consider it of primary importance to involve all the relevant international players in the geneva ii process, especially iran.
in writing. - i shall vote in favour of the european parliament's resolution on the situation in syria. the unrest and bloodshed in syria has now been going on for three years, with no apparent prospect of an end to the fighting at present. since the beginning of the conflict, more than 110,000 syrians have lost their lives and the total number of registered syrian refugees stands at more than two million, while the displaced are about nine million. despite numerous appeals, outrage and strong condemnation from the international community, especially following the mass killing of civilians by chemical weapons by syrian government forces, president assad continues to refuse to end the terrible violence. for these reasons and given the deep concern over the ongoing humanitarian crisis in syria in neighbouring countries, i hereby call on all members of the un security council and all countries actively engaged to honour their responsibilities in relation to the syrian crisis and urge president assad to recognise that the syrian people reject his regime and to step aside in the best interests of his country and the unity of his people.
in writing. - parliament adopted today in strasbourg a joint resolution on the situation in syria with a view to achieving a political and democratic solution to the conflict and preparing the transition to freedom and democracy. together we agreed that a lasting solution to the current crisis in syria can only be achieved through an inclusive political process led by syria, with the support of the international community. i am also somewhat concerned about the growing involvement of islamic extremist groups and foreign fighters in the conflict and i believe that the opposition should be more united and better organised. the european union and the international community must alleviate the suffering of millions of syrians in need of basic goods and services through an urgent un security council humanitarian resolution on the subject. we also called for coordinated eu action to secure the release of razan zeithouneh, the 2011 sakharov prize laureate who was abducted with her husband in damascus in december 2013.
in writing. - the syrian situation is out of control . the civilian death toll is incalculable and the escalation of violence in the country seems to have no limits. the talks which are taking place in geneva must continue and lead to a political and democratic solution. only then can the foundations be laid and the transition to freedom and democracy be prepared. with the support of the international community, a solution must be found as soon as possible to stop the slaughter of innocents, leading to the rapid and safe destruction of the country's chemical arsenal.
in writing. - the widespread violations of human rights and international humanitarian law perpetrated by the assad regime, including all acts of violence, systematic torture and execution of prisoners, are to be condemned in an exemplary manner. on the other hand, the increasing involvement of islamic extremist groups and foreign fighters in the ranks of the warring parties is of equal concern, increasing the risks to the syrian civilian population. i am voting in favour of this because we must firmly support the geneva ii conference on syria as the first step in the process of finding a political and democratic solution to the conflict. international humanitarian law must be fully respected in conflict, ensuring the safety of the wounded and sick and their right to receive the medical care and assistance required by their condition. political prisoners should also be released immediately and unconditionally, as should medical personnel, humanitarian workers, journalists, religious and human rights activists.
in writing. - i support this resolution as i believe that europe should focus its attention on the quality of institution-building. european efforts should all be aimed at strengthening the rule of law and bolstering institutions and economic reform in egypt. asset recovery is of primary importance in this respect. the restitution of frozen assets is – over and above its economic significance – a strong message against the impunity for corruption and money laundering that has been enjoyed so far by unscrupulous political leaders.
in writing. - egypt is a key country in the southern mediterranean and a key partner for the european union, and its political, economic and social developments have significant implications for the whole region. we therefore support democratic elections to promote a process of stabilization and lasting peace, trusting in the courageous and responsible action of the commission to finally look at the real development of the mediterranean. the union must be equipped to deal with the risk of a resurgence of migratory flows to southern europe, while at the same time the inalienable rights of the individual must be protected and guaranteed. the tragedy of lampedusa is well known and shows us that cooperation with third countries bordering on europe is essential to regulate illegal migration flows to europe and to create conditions in those countries which are favourable to socioeconomic development. the european union must commit itself to strengthening the approach based on respect for fundamental rights, the rule of law and democratic values in order to ensure that reforms aimed at economic recovery are tackled responsibly and swiftly by boosting trade in the euromed area, thus promoting welfare and prosperity on both sides of the mediterranean.
in writing. - i shall vote in favour of the european parliament's resolution on the situation in egypt. since july 2013, more than a thousand people have been killed and many more injured in clashes between supporters and opponents of deposed president morsi. tensions between muslims and coptic christians have increased and the security situation in the sinai region continues to deteriorate. despite the climate of tension and instability in the country, i welcome the fact that the new egyptian constitution mentions a civilian government, absolute freedom of belief and equality for all citizens, the guarantee of children's rights, the prohibition of torture and slavery, the commitment to respect international human rights treaties to which egypt is a party. in this resolution, i therefore reaffirm the eu's commitment to assist the egyptian people in their journey towards democratic and economic reforms, provided that this transition process leads the country to free, fair, inclusive and non-violent parliamentary and presidential elections within the timeframe set by the new constitution. at the same time, i strongly condemn all acts of violence, terrorism, incitement and incitement to hatred and urge the authorities to ensure timely and independent investigations into these events.
in writing. - i join the european parliament in expressing once again our profound solidarity with the egyptian people and our appreciation of their legitimate democratic aspirations and their efforts to achieve a peaceful democratic transition towards political, economic and social reforms. all acts of violence, terrorism, incitement, harassment, incitement to hatred and censorship must be condemned and banned for the full achievement of the rule of law and a pluralist and democratic society. therefore, the egyptian interim authorities and security forces must ensure the safety of all citizens, regardless of their political views, political affiliation or religion. egypt's new constitution, approved in a referendum on 14 and 15 january 2014, is expected to mark a major step forward in the country's difficult transition to democracy, mentioning a civilian government, freedom of belief and equality for all citizens. the constitutional referendum provided an opportunity to lay the foundations for national consensus and the country's institutional and political stability, especially as the vast majority of votes were cast in favour of the new constitution.
in writing. - russia remains one of the eu's most important partners, sharing economic and trade interests. this summit is part of a long and constructive dialogue to discuss developments in our common neighbourhood, as well as the various regional economic integration initiatives and in particular their trade implications. unfortunately, russian leaders continue to see the eu's eastern partnership as a threat to their political and economic interests, whereas in reality russia will benefit from increased trade and economic activity and its security will be strengthened by a stable and predictable neighbourhood.
in writing. - i have examined with interest the motion for a resolution on the 2013 report on the progress made by bosnia and herzegovina: in line with the report, and despite improvements in several areas, i see little foresight in the vision of political leaders, and little inclination to increase cooperation and dialogue to overcome disputes. although the active participation of the population is rather low, i believe that much progress still needs to be made, especially with regard to the eradication of discrimination and exclusion of a religious and/or ethnic nature. the general climate of instability and uncertainty is still evident, due to a lack of agreement between the various political parties. i welcome the work of the afet committee which, in addition to its careful and impartial analysis, provides strategies and suggestions in the report for achieving goals at the political, socioeconomic and regional cooperation levels. at the same time, i am concerned that the precarious situation regarding the rule of law, democracy and human rights has led to a review of bosnia-herzegovina's position under the echr by the council of europe and, at the same time, has undermined and slowed down the eu accession process.
in writing. - i do not share the positions taken in the resolution analysing the progress made by bosnia and herzegovina in 2013 and i do not believe that this country is ready for eu membership, which is why i voted against.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution because it calls once again on the council to set a date for the start of eu accession talks with the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. it is important to stress that any further delay could create unreasonable disparity in the region. i believe that any bilateral issues should be addressed at the earliest possible stage in the accession process and preferably before the opening of the talks.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the 2013 report on the progress made by the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. i am satisfied with the progress made by this country in improving its regulatory system, initiating the necessary reforms at all levels and further strengthening the concept of the rule of law. in the light of all this, i am aligning myself with the call of the afet committee for the council to set a start date for eu accession negotiations in a reasonable time, given that further extensions could have a significant impact in terms of risks and costs for the stability of the whole region. at the same time, i believe that greece, taking advantage of the presidency, must adopt a proactive and dynamic attitude in order to be able to relaunch the process of european integration of macedonia, and try to defuse the bilateral tensions that still exist. i believe that parliament should encourage the country to remove any obstacles to its future in the eu and to take concrete decisions in areas where effective policies are still lacking, including climate and environment, the fight against organised crime and immigration.
in writing. - i do not share the positions taken in the resolution analysing the progress of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia in 2013 and i do not believe that it is ready for eu membership, which is why i voted against.
in writing. - i support the call on the council to set a date for the opening of accession negotiations, in the light of the reforms which have taken place in the country and which will continue in the near future, towards the full realisation of the rule of law. the council should support the opening up of the screening process, helping to increase the implementation of reforms. a major problem still remains the failure to find a mutually acceptable, fair and just solution to the name dispute. the progress made in the area of freedom of expression is to be welcomed, but i think that the imprisonment of the journalist tomislav kezarovski is still a serious case. in this respect, activities aimed at improving the professionalism, independence and efficiency of the judiciary are to be welcomed.
in writing. - i voted in favour because i think it is right to encourage a rapid continuation of the eu accession negotiations. the government of montenegro has so far embarked on a comprehensive and ambitious reform programme, which, however, will need to be implemented with the utmost transparency, by conducting extensive consultations at the national level, by enhancing communication with the public, or by informing stakeholders to facilitate their participation in the process. on the one hand, with regard to accession, we can be satisfied with the progress made in the reform of the judiciary, the ratification of the ilo conventions and the european social charter, the adoption of the small business act and the negotiations for accession to nato, as well as the good neighbourly policies developed so far. on the other hand, i believe that the political forces must converge more towards sustainable dialogue and constructive cooperation to improve the electoral system, reform the public administration, reduce political influence on the judicial system, eradicate corruption in education, health, construction, procurement, administration and land planning. new efforts are also needed to protect minorities, promote economic growth, give more support to smes, stop socially legitimate violence against women and children and finally strengthen border surveillance on the 'balkan route' by fighting smuggling and money laundering.
in writing. - i do not share the positions taken in the resolution analysing montenegro's progress in 2013 and i do not believe that this country is ready for eu membership, which is why i voted against.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution, which endorses the commission’s communication entitled ‘towards the elimination of female genital mutilation’. with this tool, eu funding to prevent female genital mutilation (fgm) and to improve support for victims will be increased. fgm is a brutal practice which does not occur only in third countries but also affects women and girls living in the eu and constitutes a clear violation of fundamental rights. for this reason we call, via with this resolution, on the member states to use all existing mechanisms to pursue, prosecute and punish any resident who has committed the crime of fgm, even if the offence was committed outside the borders of the member state concerned.
in writing. - the problem of female genital mutilation is a matter of great concern to us. far from being a horror that happens in third countries, it is an abomination that comes to us, along with the migratory flows of those who become new european citizens. the right to physical integrity and gender equality are human rights and values that the european union recognises as fundamental, and there is no room for compromise on these principles. it must be made clear that female genital mutilation is unacceptable in any contemporary society. they mortify women as such, maim their bodies and minds, undermine their health and perpetuate the state of subjugation in which many women are still held. while respecting the diversity of cultures, there are principles on which europe does not compromise. the physical integrity and equal rights of women, of all women, must be one of them.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the elimination of female genital mutilation because any phenomenon of gender-based violence, including threats, coercion or deprivation of liberty, must be a priority on the eu agenda. female genital mutilation, in addition to causing physical, sexual and reproductive harm, is a cause of severe emotional suffering and psychological instability for women. fighting against female genital mutilation means fighting for respect for human rights and the principles enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights of the european union: it is therefore the eu's duty to work to prohibit any violation of these rights. any kind of ablative practice must therefore be abolished and condemned, as the world health organization has also said. too many women and girls are still victims of brutal gender-based violence of all kinds that undermines their psychophysical well-being. no such phenomenon can be justified by respect for traditions which are now ingrained in various cultures and, as such, a zero-tolerance policy must be adopted towards those who practice mutilation. finally, i welcome the call on the commission to declare 2016 the european year for the elimination of violence against women and girls.
in writing. - i consider the text to be well developed in all its parts and i intend to support the resolution against female genital mutilation with my vote.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the elimination of female genital mutilation because violence against women is contrary to the fundamental european value of equality between men and women. fgm is a form of violence against women and girls which unfortunately still occurs today in third countries and in the member states. this practice is gender-based violence and causes physical-sexual-psychological harm; the complications and sometimes poor hygiene of these procedures can lead to death. the commission continues to support preventive measures against all forms of gender-based violence. it is difficult to justify violent practices such as fibulation, which are carried out clandestinely in the territory of the member states, on the grounds of religious and social reasons. with this resolution parliament has sought to bring human integrity and fundamental human rights back into the debate.
in writing. - it is essential to include the fight against female genital mutilation in a general and coherent approach to combating violence against women. female genital mutilation is a form of violence against women and girls which constitutes a violation of their fundamental rights and is contrary to the principles enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. our institutions must continue to play a key role in preventing, supporting victims and in international dialogue to try to put an end to this violent practice.
in writing. - female genital mutilation is a cruel and absurd practice that affects many women, causing devastating physical and psychological damage. despite the fact that 500 000 women in the european union have been subjected to this brutal violence, europe has not yet developed a common policy to combat this horrendous practice. we must aim at actions to combat this sad phenomenon through clear legislation, as happened in italy, for example, by instituting an absolute ban on fgm and by adopting preventive measures that directly involve immigrant parents. it will be important to achieve a level of action against fgm in all member states and it will be essential to promote the exchange of best practices used to date, building on the results achieved, by adopting a coordinated strategy for the total abolition of this practice. for these reasons i voted in favour of this resolution, with particular reference to paragraph 4, which calls for a legislative act aimed at establishing preventive measures against this form of violence which destroys the dignity of women.
in writing. - for years we have denounced in this parliament the practice of female genital mutilation, a problem which is as present in third countries as it is in europe. in 2008, i was a rapporteur on the anti-fgm working document to the european parliament. we therefore support a motion for a resolution which expressly calls on the commission and the external action service of the union to launch a strong and widespread awareness-raising campaign to bring all the territorial institutions of the member states into contact with each other, to involve the states with which europe has economic and partnership relations in the project and to implement international cooperation projects involving african women's associations in europe. only then will we be able to reduce this abuse against the dignity, the person and the respect of girls. we are also aware that inefficient border controls and the increase in illegal immigration may have increased such practices in our countries. it is a european duty to combat this 'depreciation' and to include in the global strategy to combat violence against women, contained in the recent istanbul treaty, the actions to be taken, at school and society level, against female genital mutilation.
in writing. - i fully support the commission communication 'towards the elimination of female genital mutilation' as it commits to using eu funds to prevent such practices and improve support to victims, including the protection of women at risk under eu asylum provisions, and also commits, together with the european external action service, to strengthening international dialogue and promoting research to clearly identify women and girls at risk. this type of practice is a clear violation of human rights and discriminatory on grounds of gender; the european union is a democratic society, and it must therefore be fought by democratic forces to ensure full respect for human rights. the commission should present as soon as possible a proposal for an eu legislative act establishing preventive measures against all forms of violence against women (including female genital mutilation) and a comprehensive eu strategy on the matter, including further common and structured action plans to end female genital mutilation in the union.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution because i think it is right to update the naiades 2020 programme, adapting it to new needs and future prospects. i believe that the commission should rethink its financing, taking into account also the eib's financing from the union funds, in order to achieve the objectives of the action programme and, above all, to focus on high-quality infrastructure as a condition for developing and integrating inland waterway transport and inland ports into the transeuropean transport network. implementing naiades ii reflects the eu's commitment to provide appropriate funding for new technologies, innovation and sustainable freight services within the framework of existing eu programmes. i agree with the rapporteur that the commission should encourage member states to adopt best practice in order to promote a more integrated and interconnected river transport network through multimodal logistics chains.
in writing. - the naiades ii resolution stresses the need to help smes involved in inland waterway transport, which are now particularly affected by the crisis; further criticises the lack of a concrete commitment by the commission, especially in the area of allocation of funds; i therefore intend to support it with my vote.
in writing. - the commission's initiative to update and renew the naiades programme by 2020 is welcome, but the commission has preferred not to accompany the naiades ii proposal with adequate and specific funds to achieve the objectives of the action programme. therefore, the adoption of a well-structured strategy with achievable short and medium term objectives, together with a concrete roadmap outlining inter alia the resources needed for implementation, would be a good step forward towards updating naiades ii. it is to be welcomed that inland waterways have been integrated into six of the nine major ten-t network corridors, but bottlenecks and missing links still persist.
i would also like to thank the rapporteur, mr ulmer, the shadow rapporteurs, the commissioner and the irish and lithuanian presidencies for the excellent work they have done on a very complex regulation, both technically and politically, which has been subject to a lot of external pressure. the fact that the 95 grams co2 emission target for 2020 has been confirmed contributes to the achievement of the long-term decarbonisation targets, which will inevitably lead to solutions that can reduce dependence on fossil fuels over time. consumption and co2 emissions are directly linked and this relationship needs to be improved. many independent studies have highlighted the inaccuracy of the current test tests, which have been in force since the 1970s, which record a difference of almost 25% compared to the real consumption of passenger cars. consumers are thus given information which does not correspond to actual fuel consumption. for this reason, i hope that the european commission will keep its commitment in this regulation to adopt, by 2017, the new global test cycle, which will reproduce real driving conditions by including new technologies in the calculation of emissions. finally, i urge the commission to come forward quickly with new, feasible targets for 2025 which can help the sector to be increasingly competitive with its non-european industrial partner.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i think commissioner barnier is right when he says that the commission's proposals are aimed at a strategy of competition and innovation. there is no doubt that this is a problem which naturally concerns free movement in europe and the objective of simplifying and improving procedures. the hope is that, as europe shares the objective to be achieved, that objective will in fact always be achieved. europe must not be a transit zone for counterfeit goods, because counterfeit goods are not only economically harmful to the trademark holder, but also because there is a fear that there may be a risk to the health of citizens, especially in the field of medicines and all that has been said. in order to establish alleged infringements of the eu trade mark, it is essential to strengthen the control of goods in transit and to create a mechanism to ensure the effective operation of the right of intervention for the eu trade mark proprietor. it is therefore necessary to confer on the customs agency the power to control goods in transit. as has already been recognized by the international court of justice on the gatt agreement, it is clear that we are not in any way hindering legitimate trade. i think that's a very important thing to keep in mind, because counterfeiting is one thing, and control is another. i therefore believe that the trademark which gives products the possibility of being marketed within the european union does not create any problems at a time when the fight against counterfeiting is even stronger. i think that in the legal affairs committee - as we all acknowledged - a good job has been done. i thank the commissioner and my colleague marielle gallo for all they have done.
member of the commission. - madam president, while we await commissioner malmström, who is on her way, let me say a few words on behalf of the commission on this topic, which is partly linked to the previous debate on counterfeiting. the confiscation of assets is a very effective tool against organised crime, because it attacks the financial incentive behind crime, helps protect the eu economy against infiltration by criminal groups and returns assets to governments and citizens. at present, the amounts recovered from organised crime in the member states seem modest compared to the estimated revenues of organised criminal groups. today’s tools for freezing, managing and confiscating criminal assets are clearly not effective enough. for this reason the commission proposed, in 2012, the directive which we are debating today to simplify existing rules and fill gaps which benefit convicted and suspected persons. i would like, on behalf of the commission, to thank you, mrs macovei, for your excellent cooperation and for your thoughts on maintaining the added value of the commission proposals on this important directive, which is both technically complex and politically sensitive. with the help of the lithuanian presidency we have reached a compromise agreement in time for adoption before the elections, and the commission welcomes that very much. the directive substantially improves the existing legislation for the union with regard to extended confiscation, third-party confiscation, freezing measures and safeguards. it introduces new provisions on asset management and statistics and allows for confiscation in situations where the suspect or accused person cannot be convicted due to flight or illness. we regret that the provisions enabling non-conviction-based confiscation in case of the death of the suspect or accused person were deleted from the proposal. the council and parliament have made a declaration inviting the commission to analyse the feasibility of introducing rules on non-conviction-based confiscation which might lead to further legal proposals in this field. we will now reflect on how to take this ahead, and we look forward to discussing it in the european parliament in the next months. finally, the directive recognises, in a non-binding provision, that the social reuse of confiscated assets can be a valuable tool in this area. the commission intends to follow that by supporting an exchange of best practices between member states. so thank you very much for your support, so that we can say together as soon as possible, as mrs macovei said: mission fulfilled.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner barnier, there is no doubt that this directive represents an important step forward in the fight against transnational crime. when this house adopted my report on organised crime, corruption and money laundering on 23 october, we had a timetable for priorities which was the first to be set for the adoption of this directive. in the meantime, its function has been extended. we have appreciated the work of mrs macovei. the criminal system and criminal organizations must be struck to the core, the crimes committed through this activity must be punished with ever greater firmness. provision should be made for the freezing and confiscation of proceeds of crime for all offences from which an unlawful economic advantage is derived. we are also opposed to corruption and to all activities aimed at extending the criminal economic system. this is a final judgment. however, a further step could be taken with civil forfeiture. the distinction between freezing and confiscation is important. there are some significant patterns in other realities and it is a measure that certainly follows other important measures, to then ensure the mutual recognition of seizure and confiscation orders, which is the next step towards the member states. a further instrument will certainly be the european public prosecutor, because attacking the assets illegally acquired by the mafia means using the resources illegally acquired by the mafia for welfare, for the cultural offer and to guarantee honest families, citizens and businesses a better future in this europe.
i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs macovei, for the long and difficult work she has done over the last few months. the directive we are voting on tomorrow is an important first step in the fight against organised crime. in europe alone, the turnover of criminal organisations exceeds 350 billion euros. that is why it is important to counter organised crime by attacking its own assets. as i said, this is only a first step, because the text we are about to adopt only concerns minimum common rules on the confiscation and freezing of illicit assets. i do not hide my regret that a measure which could have been much more ambitious and courageous has been curtailed by resistance within the council. if some member states had been more courageous and had believed more in the european union, we would certainly have a much more effective tool for fighting crime today. i take this opportunity to ask the commission to comply with the request to carry out a study on the effects of confiscation in the absence of a conviction in the event of the death of the accused, when the evidence of the illicit origin of the assets was clear and would have led to the conviction of the accused himself. the exclusion of this case, in my view, has weakened the whole measure. i hope that this study can be presented during the italian presidency. however, i cannot but welcome the inclusion in the directive of the possibility for member states to use confiscated assets for organized crime for social purposes, a practice already successfully in force in italy and ireland. i hope - and i conclude - that this directive will be followed by other measures at european level which will make the fight against organised crime even more effective and efficient.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i congratulate the rapporteur on her excellent work. the fight against crime, fraud and corruption is a top priority. some examples: the sale of illicit drugs generates a profit of eur 100 billion a year; corruption in the european union alone is about 120 billion euros a year, or 1% of the gdp of the european union; in europe, tax evasion costs €1 trillion a year, more than the entire european budget, about €2,000 for each citizen. it is not enough, therefore, to crack down on illegal activities by means of harsh repression, but it is also necessary to harmonize the rules on the freezing and confiscation of criminal assets. otherwise, there is a risk that the perpetrators of crime will be severely punished, without, however, depriving them of the profits of their criminal activities. it is also important that confiscated property be used for projects of public interest and social benefit. finally, i would like to stress that in the directive on combating the sexual exploitation of children and child pornography, for which i was rapporteur, we also wanted to include the seizure and confiscation of the proceeds of crime, precisely because it is unacceptable that profits and business can be made on the skin of children.
member of the commission. - mr president, let me begin by thanking the rapporteur, mr díaz de mera, for the work he has done on this file. we have had excellent cooperation and i know how hard he worked to get the shadows and all the other co-rapporteurs on board on this very difficult file. it has resulted in a most comprehensive report, and i would like to thank him for that. i would also like to thank all the shadows and the rapporteurs of the other committees who contributed to this report. it is already clear that this report will be further negotiated in a second reading in the next parliamentary mandate, but it is important to have this first reading today. it is a set of negotiating positions rather than the final compromise, and this is normal. there are a number of elements on which we are still not in agreement, but i think we have come a very long way. let me make a few comments on this. the commission’s objective in putting this forward was to make europol more accountable, more effective and more efficient. i think we share those objectives. we are also in agreement when it comes to the need to enhance europol’s legitimacy in the eyes of european citizens by strengthening parliamentary oversight and incorporating robust data protection safeguards. throughout the report, parliament calls for a series of principles and introduces criteria and detailed procedure requirements applicable to data processing activities with the aim of safeguarding fundamental rights. this is also a core concern of the commission, and that is why data protection rules and safeguards are spelt out in chapters 5, 7 and 8. it is also important that eu legislation takes account of the better regulation principles, in order to avoid duplicating provisions set out elsewhere and imposing procedures which would be too cumbersome for practical cooperation. with these two principles in mind, the commission can take on board a number of the suggestions parliament has made to strengthen the text in this area. parliamentary scrutiny is, of course, of the utmost importance to me as well. it is important to recall that article 9 of protocol 1 to the treaty states that the european parliament and national parliaments together should determine the organisation and promotion of effective and regular interparliamentary cooperation within the union. some national parliaments have expressed their opposition to the creation of a new structure and prefer to use the existing forums. the commission believes that it is most appropriate to leave the creation of any new forum to the joint decision of the european parliament and national parliaments. regarding europol’s right to ask member states to initiate a criminal investigation and member states’ corresponding obligations, there are some proposed amendments here that seek to downgrade this right and obligation. we take note of the amendments, but we think that they would weaken to an unjustifiable extent europol’s role in helping national law enforcement authorities to commence investigative action by feeding them with relevant information. concerning member states’ obligation to supply information to europol, it is proposed to reinstate the council decision on language that requires member states to provide data on their own initiative. this amendment deletes the reference to priority crime areas and the obligation to send europol a copy of bilateral or multilateral exchanges between member states. the commission cannot support this part of the amendments because we think that member states should feel responsible for supplying europol in a timely manner with fresh, relevant data to allow the agency to build an accurate picture of criminal threats. turning to government arrangements, it is proposed to delete the executive board from among the agency’s management structures. some proposed changes here would reduce the number of commission representatives on the management board from two to one. these are basic features of the consensus reached among us – parliament, the council and the commission – in the common approach to decentralised agencies. that is why the commission cannot accept them. parliament also proposes assigning to the management board the power to impose a temporary or definitive ban on data processing. this is currently the prerogative of the edps, and therefore we do not support this amendment either. finally, the procedure for appointing the executive director is altered by reducing the commission’s role in a pre-selection committee and by involving the council and the joint scrutiny group in the selection. this again alters the balance of responsibilities agreed under the common approach, so we do not support it. concerning access to europol information for olaf, parliament proposes to remove from europol’s tasks the duty to provide jha agencies and olaf with relevant criminal information and to eliminate the possibility for olaf to have access to europol data. although indirect access could be envisaged, it is important to allow olaf to carry out these tasks in areas which are closely related to europol’s mandate – vat, excise fraud or fraud on eu funds. close cooperation between the bodies is enshrined in olaf’s recent legal basis, therefore we do not support the amendments. let me reiterate that there are areas – i have been commenting on a few of them here – where we do need to find further ground to negotiate on a second reading. but we do agree on many things. we have achieved a great deal together and have made huge progress. we share the objective of more accountability and greater efficiency and effectiveness for europol. i am confident that with some more talks we will achieve the progress and direction that are needed for a more accountable and efficient europol.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking our rapporteur, mr díaz de mera, for his report, on which we are in full agreement, starting with his opposition to the merger of europol and cepol. it is very important that we succeed in revising the europol regulation because, as we know, the european union has seen a great increase and diversification of serious and organised crime over the last decade. to combat this crime, which is an ever-increasing, ever-more dynamic and ever-more complex phenomenon, europol must be involved, at least as we have known it up to now, especially in the face of the effect of globalisation, which is affecting our society with ever-changing situations and where a unified instrument is therefore needed to be able to intervene. we think of the internet as a medium that is increasingly used, but that is no longer just a medium but also a place where crime is practiced, almost always in a priority way. we have to have parliament as a monitoring body for europol's activities. the body elected by the citizens can therefore perform this function and at the same time also have the function of data protection officer, who can respond to complaints, investigate them, monitor and ensure the application of the provisions of the regulation, without violating the privacy that we all obviously value.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i apologize, but my flight was unfortunately delayed for a long time. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, agustín díaz de mera, because he has been an extraordinary comrade, and in that sense also all the other colleagues. what i think needs to be made clear, needs to be crystallized, is that organized crime, cross-border crime has absolutely no barriers, no geographical boundaries and no borders. we cannot do that, which is why a mandate was needed, as it was for europol. i hope that all the member states will understand the difficulties that europol has experienced in these years, in these months, where there is no fair and adequate exchange of information and, above all, no willingness on the part of the member states to invest in europol. interpol does its job very well, but europol is a growing reality which needs the contribution of all of us. i personally asked that ecpol not be separated from europol, precisely because the functioning of ecpol is also part of europol's mandate. i also asked that, since the two realities have been split, the reality of cepol be framed in the hague, also for the purpose of optimising resources, and this does not seem to be possible. at the same time, in the context of the spending review, i believe it is of the utmost importance to place cepol in a different geographical context from that proposed by my group, the alde group. i therefore hope that there will be a review of thinking in this direction and i hope that this report will indicate a capacity for investment on the part of the member states in this extraordinary reality of europol.
in writing. over the years, the number and scale of humanitarian crises around the world have increased considerably, leading to a growing demand for humanitarian workers to provide an effective response. taking note of this situation, the european commission adopted a proposal for a regulation on the establishment of the european voluntary humanitarian aid corps, with the dual aim of expressing the european union's solidarity with people in need and of improving the union's capacity to respond to humanitarian crises. solidarity is a fundamental value in civil society and volunteering is a concrete and visible expression of this. i believe that the european union must ensure adequate humanitarian aid in the face of the increase in the number and scale of humanitarian crises. i therefore welcome the efforts of the commission, which is filling the current gaps in humanitarian volunteering and helping to raise public awareness of the concept of european citizenship. i agree with the rapporteur that, in order to achieve the objectives set out in the proposal for a regulation, a forum for consultation and dialogue should be created from the start of the programme, bringing together representatives of the commission, the member states and the sending and receiving organisations.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the same dramatic figures have been confirmed for years: in europe, one in four women has been the victim of violence at least once in her life, and more than 10% have been the victim of sexual violence. the fight against violence against women must therefore finally be a real priority in europe. our goal must be zero tolerance. we are asking for a directive first of all because violence against women is a particularly serious crime and a directive is useful in establishing strict, effective and dissuasive rules that apply in all 28 member states of the european union. we also call for a strong action plan to provide information and prevention in the fight against violence against women.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking the shadow rapporteurs, the chairman of the imco committee and the coordinator of my group, who have given me practical help in the debate and then in the drafting of the text we are discussing here. i would like to say to you, mr president of the commission, that i think your assessment of the state of europe's economy is actually too optimistic. it is a political mistake to emphasize the positive signs that have been established in some of our territories. we are far from a reversal of the trend that will allow us to look to the future with serenity. you know better than i do that in order to create new jobs, we must have growth of at least 2 percentage points of gross domestic product, and this is not the case in almost all european countries today. we will therefore have to manage the negative effects of the crisis for a long time to come, while at the same time putting in place the actions and policies needed to grow individual economies and the economy of the union as a whole. we have worked with the intention of contributing to the european semester, which is an important new instrument we have given ourselves. we thought it was necessary to identify, with specific governance, the third pillar - as we have called it - which should connect the first pillar, that of macroeconomic policies, with the other, that which concerns social and labour policies in the strict sense. it is clear that an economy grows if certain strategic sectors are able to produce wealth, to develop. the commission has identified some of these sectors, namely services, energy, transport and the digital single market, as core areas for the internal market. i would also add, if i may, that attention should be paid to the manufacturing sector. barack obama is taking action to grow manufacturing in his country. we have lost important positions in sectors which have made the history of european industry and we must recover this differential which has been lost precisely because of our own responsibility, because of distraction or because we took for granted that the emerging countries would be able to do what we were no longer able to do. so we must see the internal market for what it is, that is to say, an extraordinary lever for any economic policy based on growth, and we must define a specific governance of it where there are policies for innovation together. we must aim at a competitive model based on knowledge. it is the high-level competition with which we must challenge the rest of the world, not the competition based on cost reductions which in the end only produce social disruption and worsen the living conditions of millions of people. so knowledge, all the tools related to schooling, innovation, research. at the same time we must also think about the system of rights which is no longer exclusively a system of rights in the sphere of production. the working people, both men and women, must be protected, they must have access to decent work. but we must at the same time take up with the same conviction the rights of citizenship, including freedom of movement within the european union, which have been badly called into question by some countries in recent months. on the other hand, we must also think about the rights of consumers, consumers who are aware and able to choose because they know, to choose well the services they are going to consume because they have been informed of what they are going to do. we have tried to sum up all this in the proposal which, as i said, has the ambitious but not out of place objective of creating the third pillar.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the new european semester is still marked by austerity. in italy we are dying of austerity. we are a rich country but the population is getting poorer: there are 4.100.000 italians who do not have the money to buy bread, youth unemployment has reached 42%, the unemployed have increased by 1.700.000 and 1.100.000 jobs have been lost. in 2013, 149 italians committed suicide, one every two and a half days. it is a war bulletin that continues to claim victims. this is a real world war of a financial nature. i wonder how this eurocracy can continue to be so bitter about public spending, about the all-out war against tax evasion, when it is quite clear that the main problem is debt, the debt of the state, of companies, of banks, of households, totalling 5.517 billion, equivalent to 326% of gdp, which imposes 220 billion in annual interest ... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in the context well described in the previous speech, the president-in-office did not have much to say yesterday in the italian senate, and certainly not a single serious word of commitment to tackling the employment issues we are discussing here in the european parliament. he cited an italian singer as one of his metapolitical reference points. he would have been better off referring to a really great thinker who is corrado gini, the theorist of the coefficient of social inequality. although he was an exponent of the scientific culture of the old fascist regime, he is intelligently cited by obama and the best american intelligentsia when applying the analysis of social inequalities, which is a profound issue that europe has to face. god knows with what spirit we are preparing for an italian semester from july with such a lazy and superficial president of the council. the damage caused by these austerity policies is very serious, and it is precisely in the area of social inequality that the other great killer of social equality in the countries with the weakest economies, those which have suffered most from these policies, which is called the 'euro', is missing, and has been missing in part in this debate. it takes courage to say it, but certainly not to be someone who, in his own territory, has been told very rightly... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr vice-president rehn, you are a sportsman. imagine that there are three runners on a track: one can be german, one finnish, one italian. the italian can't run because he's got two weights on his feet. he can get rid of a burden with a key that only he has - the italian athlete - and we hope that the new government that italy has given itself will be able to get rid of that burden. but the other weight needs two keys: one is the italian athlete and the other is europe. mr rehn, this crisis leaves us with a legacy of imbalances and inequalities in the euro area countries. it leaves us with weak growth, and above all with little quality, sustainability and long-term character. to overcome these problems we need to encourage investment in the strategic sectors that president barroso spoke of, especially in the countries where the recovery is weakest. investment spending is not the same as current spending and the commission should make it possible to use the resources needed to make these strategic investments by ensuring that every single euro is not wasted on unproductive expenditure.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european semester is just another instrument for imposing measures from above. in italy, in the past, we complained about our politicians, who were shortsighted and very corrupt. the bureaucratic government in brussels has even succeeded in the difficult task of making us feel sorry for our old rulers. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the reality is, unfortunately, quite different, as is shown by our young people who are out of work and by the fact that businesses are closing down every day in the name of measures which have brought no benefits but only damage and misery. we cannot continue in this direction and i am surprised that there is even the slightest lack of self-criticism, the ability to recognize one's own mistakes. i am convinced, however, that in may the european people will be making their voice heard and their discomfort heard and then perhaps things will have to change, you will have to change, before it is too late.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, let me first of all thank you for this very serious and substantive debate today. i would also like to thank and congratulate the rapporteurs of the various committees for their very thorough and hard work. i have listened carefully to the remarks made here today and i note that there seems to be quite broad support for the key priorities identified in the annual growth survey. i also want to thank the greek presidency and greek government for their work for the annual growth survey, including working for the single market, especially in the field of services, which mr kourkoulas referred to. i very much appreciate and commend the efforts of greece to restore economic growth and job creation under very difficult circumstances and following decades of economic and policy mismanagement. i have to say that i find certain personal attacks, especially by mr farage, against minister kourkoulas utterly unfair both to him personally and to his country, greece. i am actually very proud of having worked with you, mr kourkoulas, when you were posted in sofia and sarajevo when we worked together for the success of the stabilisation of the western balkans. european diplomacy will continue to need you and the positive contribution of greece. as i have said before, when you need a good guy in a real trouble spot, i say: ‘call kourkoulas’. now that the economic recovery is gaining ground we need to focus on strengthening its foundations and boosting sustainable growth and job creation. that is why we need to stay the course of economic reform, and in addition we need to work in order to restore bank lending for the sake of investment and job creation, especially by smes. we need to continue to modernise public administration, and we need to further tackle unemployment and the social consequences of the crisis. my colleague laszló andor will in a moment present the commission’s views on policies for fighting poverty and unemployment. i also want to thank parliament for the key role it has played in developing the european semester. the european semester has been instrumental in driving the necessary structural reforms in the member states and raising these reform goals to the political agenda. later on today here in strasbourg i will present the commission’s winter economic forecast. it is a very realistic forecast and it shows that europe’s economic recovery, which began in the second quarter of 2013, will continue gaining strength and spreading across countries, while at the same time becoming more sustained and balanced. however, as is typical following a deep financial crisis, the recovery still remains modest – too modest. in many parts of europe, unemployment remains at intolerable levels. excessively tight lending conditions, especially for smes, remain a serious bottleneck to growth and we also have many other problems and challenges. therefore, we cannot be complacent. further decisive action is urgently needed. our focus must now be squarely on strengthening the recovery. we should put all efforts into continuing and reinforcing the recovery process. we shall proceed on the basis of common economic and policy priorities agreed together, and on the basis of an open dialogue that constitutes the basis for strong democratic legitimacy and accountability. this necessarily implies a key role to be played by you, the european parliament. only then can we ensure that europe moves effectively from modest recovery to strong and sustainable growth and job creation. to conclude, one member criticised president barroso for painting too rosy a picture of the economic situation in europe. that is certainly not the case. yes, we must avoid any illusory over-optimism, but at the same time we must stay away from nihilistic pessimism which does not recognise any progress made and thus only erodes europe’s confidence and self-confidence. what we need is a reinforcement of confidence, and we need strong self-confidence to overcome this crisis. instead of over-optimism or pessimism, we need realistic reformism by reinforcing the recovery that is now under way. that means we need to unleash our growth and jobs potential by improving the lending conditions of smes, which are the backbone of job creation in europe; by completing the single market, especially in services and in the digital economy; and by investing in sustainable green growth and turning innovations in that field into competitive products and services – that is, into new businesses and new jobs for europeans; and also by tackling the problem of youth unemployment and poverty, which is a key priority of the commission.
, member of the commission. - mr president, i must indeed echo vice-president rehn. tackling youth unemployment and poverty are priorities for us. there are very important developments. not only economic growth, but also growth in jobs, is coming back. but, as mr barroso and mr rehn always say, this is also a time when we need to avoid complacency and focus on quality. unemployment is indeed falling, but youth unemployment has not yet started to fall; working conditions have not yet started to improve and poverty is still continuing to increase in a number of member states. that is why the actions which we have been launching recently have to be taken very seriously. most importantly i should mention the youth guarantee: a proposal to ensure that young people do not become unemployed for longer than four months, and that the public employment services function better in the southern european member states, in order to deliver a proper youth guarantee, supported by additional eu funding. because of the short amount of time available, let me just highlight that on 8[nbsp ]april we will be holding a conference in brussels at which president barroso, prime minister samaras, and the head of the ilo will be present, in order to take stock of the implementation of the youth guarantee and discuss what else needs to be done at this time. as i have said, it is not only the number of jobs we have to focus on, but also the quality of the employment, especially for young people. this is why proposals like the quality framework for traineeships are very important. this will be discussed in the epsco council in early march and hopefully also approved by the epsco. there are a number of countries, including, for example, the united kingdom, where despite the fall in unemployment poverty is relatively high and a very serious issue. poverty, as explained by the employment and social developments in europe review for 2013, is a serious issue. policies introducing or maintaining a minimum wage in the member states play a significant role here. in order to tackle poverty in old age, we launched a white paper two years ago, and at another conference in brussels at the end of march, together with vice-president rehn and michel barnier, we will look into the implementation of measures such as pension reforms, as well as other measures like the portability of occupational pensions, which will need to ensure that pensions in europe are sustainable and adequate in the long run. finally, let me just highlight the importance of the social dimension of the mff, which parliament and the council created together, following the commission’s proposal, on important aspects such as, for example, a minimum share of and within the social fund to support social inclusion measures. the social fund’s capacity in this respect, together with some smaller instruments like the fund for aid for the most deprived (fead) and the employment and social innovation instrument, will have to provide the necessary support for member states to be able to tackle poverty and to ensure that we can make progress in the area of social cohesion, as envisaged in the europe 2020 strategy. to do this, we of course count on the social partners and on the contribution of the social ngos, both within the member states and at eu level.
president-in-office of the council. - mr president, honourable members, let me first express my thanks to vice-president olli[nbsp ]rehn for his kind words. i indeed had the chance and the pleasure to work under his political guidance during the very important and historic period of the completion of the fifth enlargement and the opening-up of the european perspective to the western balkan countries. he should be proud of the personal contribution he made to these historic european developments. the debate today has demonstrated clearly that the european semester is not just an obscure bureaucratic procedure of interest to the institutions. we have discussed the issues which are in the forefront of citizens’ minds: public services, wages, unemployment, poverty and education. these are issues of concern to all of us, since they affect all our citizens irrespective of their home country. it is also the case that developments in one member state can have a sometimes significant impact in other member states, and therefore all these issues are of common interest. there is discussion about the situation. i think everybody agrees that there has been progress, but that this progress is not sufficient. i do not think anybody can deny that fiscal adjustment is underway and has given good results so far. let me remind you at this point that my own country has made a tremendous adjustment from a 15% deficit in 2009 to less than 3% today and, already in 2013, to a primary budgetary surplus. reforms are also giving results and, for the first time since 1948, greece has a positive current account balance. other member states which were hit by the crisis, such as ireland and portugal, have also achieved positive results. we should, of course, ensure better balance between economic and employment and social concerns, and the presence here today of both vice-president olli rehn and commissioner lászló andor is symbolic of the balance which we need. the inclusiveness of growth is one of the main principles of the europe 2020 strategy. the priorities of this year’s annual growth survey endorsed by the european council include tackling unemployment and the social consequences of the crisis. let me remind this house also that in the economic field there are binding tools backed by sanctions. in the social field we still largely rely on the open method of coordination. i would also like to recall that the social scoreboard is one of the innovations of the 2014 semester. the commission proposed this scoreboard in its draft joint employment report in the autumn and it was approved by the epsco council and then by the european council in december. we expect the epsco council in march to adopt the joint employment report, including the scoreboard. the debate as a whole underlines that the european semester merits our full attention. i hope that all the issues which were discussed today in this house will be at the forefront of your electoral campaigns so that the citizens of europe can consider they have a direct stake in the policies which have been enacted to achieve a stronger and more competitive european union and a european union with stronger social and economic cohesion.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank my colleagues, the commissioners and the representative of the council for their comments on our reports. i would like to take this opportunity to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken this initiative. we all agree that the european semester is an innovative instrument with great potential. however, in order to make full use of this potential, i believe that the consultation and involvement of the social partners and all forms of collective representation, which are concerned not only with the problems of those working in the strategic sectors which should make up the action of the european semester, but also with the citizens in their capacity as consumers, is crucial. the consultation must take place, it is a substantial element of democracy which we must strengthen, by trying to bring forward as much as possible the discussion on the aspects concerning the priorities and then the individual consequences of each measure, in other words in the construction phase as well as in the verification phase. the second aspect, which is equally important, concerns the content of our actions. we cannot limit ourselves to using quantitative instruments, but we need to focus on quality, that is to say, to verify the effect of the measures we are discussing and then decide to adopt, so that there is the greatest possible return. in this respect, the infringement procedures should also be reviewed. the infringement procedure must be considered the last resort, the last measure to be taken; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. only in this way will we be able to achieve the maximum result from the actions we propose and, above all, will we not have the use of the mere punitive act in the face of the need and the usefulness of promoting and encouraging positive behaviour.
in writing. - the request for waiver of the immunity of mr tadeusz cymański was sent by the prosecutor of the republic of poland on 23 october 2013 and was notified in the chamber on 18 november 2013. taking into account that, although under article 8 of the protocol on the privileges and immunities of the european union, members of the european parliament may not be sought, detained or prosecuted on the basis of opinions or votes expressed in the exercise of their functions, the criminal proceedings to be brought against mr tadeusz cymański are in no way connected with his position as a member of the european parliament, i voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - the financial crisis and economic recession have since 2009 seriously damaged financial stability and economic growth in the eu and in member states receiving external assistance in particular. the countries receiving external assistance obviously have liquidity problems because of the need for budgetary consolidation, and this complicates the implementation of operational programmes. the text should therefore be supported in order to help member states currently receiving financial assistance and those which could benefit from adjustment programmes to continue to have financial means to implement their projects under the fisheries sector policy, as well as in other sectors. of course, the member states must commit themselves to spending the available funds more effectively and to improving the implementation rates of operational programmes.
in writing. - the financial crisis and economic recession have since 2009 seriously undermined financial stability and economic growth in the european union in general and in the member states receiving external assistance in particular. we believe that it is essential to promote conditions which facilitate the management of european union funds, so as to encourage and accelerate investment in the member states receiving financial assistance and to stimulate the projects which are essential for the socioeconomic recovery and development of the sector. the extension of the application of the co-financing rates increased by 10 percentage points until the end of the programme and the date of submission of the final payment application is a transparent, simple and flexible measure and is essential to facilitate the payment of aid and thus to promote the development of projects and investments in the fisheries sector, which play a key role in strengthening economic growth and job creation in several regions that are heavily dependent on this activity. for these reasons we have decided to vote in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - i share the views expressed in this report which analyses certain provisions on financial management for certain member states which are, or are likely to be, in serious difficulties with regard to their financial stability. i think it is essential to have a measure to ensure the continuity of the increased co-financing for the member states receiving financial assistance and to make available the available financial resources in advance in order to deal more effectively with the current crisis.
in writing. - since 2009, the combined action of the financial crisis and the economic downturn has undermined the eu's stability and economic growth in almost all sectors. many member states have benefited from macroeconomic adjustment programmes, but the need to rebuild their budgets has made them difficult to implement and, as a result, has undermined the capacity of countries to invest. i voted in favour of this proposal to amend regulation (ec) no 1198/2006 to help member states receiving financial assistance, as well as those which could benefit from corrective programmes, to continue to have the financial means to implement their projects under the fisheries sector policy. the proposal aims to extend the duration in order to ensure the proper execution of operational programmes supported through the eff without affecting the union budget. secondly, the proposal helps to simplify and speed up financing by stimulating projects and investments in the fisheries sector, and by facilitating an optimal transition of the programming period between the current and the 2014-2020 period. i believe that this is the only way to encourage the implementation of the projects and investments needed to ensure that the fisheries sector functions as well as possible.
in writing. - austerity alone is deadly. a country that does not invest cannot grow, much less have any hope of getting out of a phase that is predicted to be a recession. the situation of the member states concerned by adjustment programmes is alarming and could worsen if the support measures provided so far are abandoned. the european institutions must therefore be more flexible and more understanding. no use throwing a rope at a drowning man if you tell him to pull it a little at a time.
in writing. - the amendment of the financial management regulation for certain member states experiencing or threatened with serious difficulties with respect to their financial stability is intended to adapt the needs of those states experiencing difficulties as a result of the economic crisis to the requirements of 2006 (the date of implementation of the regulation). the report aims to give member states in difficulty the possibility of continuing to benefit from increased co-financing, thus providing the financial instruments to enable them to implement european operational programmes.
in writing. - the financial crisis and economic recession have since 2009 seriously undermined financial stability and economic growth in the european union in general and in the member states receiving external assistance in particular. in view of this and given that the present commission proposal to amend regulation (ec) no 1198/2006 aims to help member states currently receiving financial assistance, as well as those that could benefit from adjustment programmes, to continue to have financial means to implement their projects under the sectoral fisheries policy in accordance with the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality, i voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - we cannot allow the financial crisis and economic recession to further undermine the financial stability and economic growth of the european union. this is why it is necessary to facilitate the management of the european union funds by encouraging and accelerating investment in the member states receiving financial assistance to revive not only the economy but the whole of european society.
in writing. - the commission proposal is consistent with other initiatives taken by the commission in response to the economic crisis affecting the eu and ensures that the effectiveness of the different funds is not compromised by insufficiently sound macro-financial policies. in addition, the mechanism of support for member states receiving financial assistance is fully in line with the principle of subsidiarity, just as the principle of proportionality is reflected in the extension of the application of the cofinancing rate increased by ten percentage points. in conclusion, i agree with the rapporteur that the commission must absolutely align this proposal for a regulation with the one on the funds in order to ensure that the increase of 10 percentage points in the co-financing rates for each priority axis continues until the closure of the programmes supported by the eff. the commission proposal is particularly urgent, which is why i wholeheartedly support its adoption as soon as possible and my support by a positive vote, in order to facilitate its early entry into force and effective implementation.
in writing. - the financial crisis and recession that have hit europe since 2009 have undermined the financial stability and economic growth of the european union. for these reasons, cyprus, greece, ireland and portugal, the four member states which currently continue to receive financial assistance, are experiencing serious liquidity problems due to the need for fiscal consolidation. the investment capacity of these member states is limited, both in the public and private sectors, which makes it more difficult to use the funds available for growth and competitiveness. it is therefore essential to promote conditions that facilitate the management of eu funds, to encourage and accelerate investment in these countries and to stimulate the projects that are essential to initiate a socioeconomic recovery.
in writing. - the report which we as the ppe have approved aims to oppose some of the adjustments proposed by the european commission and presented at the time of the adoption of the comitology regulation. i agree with the rapporteur that many of the amendments that have been presented have not been adequately accompanied by detailed and timely reasons. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. - the szájer report is a procedural text which analyses from a technical point of view the adjustments which have become necessary since the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. that is why i have voted for it.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of the first of the three reports proposed by mr szájer because i appreciate the work done in the legal affairs committee and i agree with the contents of the report, which have been obtained through fruitful cooperation between the legal affairs committee and the other committees. in opposing most of the adjustments to the system of implementing acts for the provisions providing for the use of prc i see the will to improve the commission's proposal and to obtain more detailed reasons from it. i also welcome the aim of this report: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: at the same time, however, i appreciate the willingness of parliament to have a clear position on this subject even without an agreement with the council, because i believe that parliament, the only european institution directly elected by the citizens, must be distinguished by its speed and efficiency, so as not to give the impression of a slow and sluggish union.
in writing. - the resolution proposes to revise and regulate more precisely certain aspects of the executive and legislative powers delegated to the commission. i think that such powers in the commission deserve more attention and more precise definition. these are important powers which the natural legislator can delegate to the commission, and this could lead to a harmful change in the respective roles if not properly regulated. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. - the text by mr szájer proposes to adapt articles 290 and 291 of the tfeu to a series of legal acts providing for the use of regulatory procedures with scrutiny. the commission's general objective is to abolish all provisions referring to the regulatory procedure with scrutiny. to this end, three proposals for regulations were submitted adapting to article 290 tfeu a series of legal acts providing for the use of the regulatory procedure with scrutiny. in this proposal, the commission analysed over 30 legislative acts containing measures providing for the regulatory procedure with scrutiny and concluded that some of them do not fall within the scope of article 290 tfeu and should therefore be deleted as being incompatible with the treaty.
in writing. - the commission's proposals for regulations adapt to article 290 of the tfeu a number of legal acts providing for the use of the regulatory procedure with scrutiny (rpc). in view of the report of the committee on legal affairs and the opinions of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, the committee on employment and social affairs, the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, the committee on international trade, the committee on industry, research and energy and the committee on transport and tourism, i have voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - i agree with the rapporteur that the commission's position is wrong. last november, the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights unanimously adopted an own-initiative report on the follow-up to the delegation of legislative powers and on the control by the member states of the exercise of implementing powers conferred on the commission, proposing a whole series of criteria for the application of articles 290 and 291 of the tfeu. in particular, paragraph 6 of the report clearly states that parliament 'believes that at least all cases previously dealt with under the regulatory procedure with scrutiny should now be brought into line with article 290 tfeu, since the sps measures are also measures of general scope designed to amend non-essential elements of the basic act, inter alia by deleting some of these elements or by supplementing the basic act by adding new non-essential elements'. for this reason, the adaptations to the regime of the implementing acts of the provisions providing for the use of the prc, which were proposed by the commission without individual and detailed reasons, are not acceptable.
in writing. - the draft report we approved today as the ppe group concerns a proposal covering five legislative acts in the field of justice which still refer to the regulatory procedure with scrutiny (prc). the draft by mr szájer contains no amendments because it is a highly specific matter and falls within the exclusive competence of the legal affairs committee of the european parliament. no other committee has therefore taken a position on this.
in writing. - the szajer report is a balanced procedural text which analyses the technical adaptations necessary following the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, which is why i voted in favour of it.
in writing. - as in the case of the first report on the 'omnibus' package drawn up by mr szájer, i am voting in favour because i share the objective of this proposal for a regulation put forward by the commission, namely to complete, as soon as possible, the adaptation to the new legal framework and to abolish the provisions referring to the regulatory procedure with scrutiny by all legislative instruments. i think it is right that the european parliament voted even without an agreement with the council to send a message to the european citizens: the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council at the beginning of the year. the process of adaptation to the new legal framework cannot be allowed to slow down or be postponed. the european parliament is thus challenging the council and at the same time extending an outstretched hand to it, inviting it to cooperate.
in writing. - the proposal for a regulation concerns greater control and limitation of the power conferred on the european commission. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. - the text by mr szájer proposes to adapt articles 290 of the tfeu to a series of legal acts providing for the use of regulatory procedures with scrutiny. the commission's general objective is to abolish all provisions referring to the regulatory procedure with scrutiny. to this end, three proposals for regulations were submitted adapting to article 290 tfeu a series of legal acts providing for the use of the regulatory procedure with scrutiny. in this proposal the commission has analysed five legislative acts in the field of justice.
in writing. - the commission has committed itself to ascertaining by the end of 2012 the number of legislative acts containing references to the regulatory procedure with scrutiny that remain in force, in order to draw up the appropriate legislative initiatives and then complete the adaptation to the new legal framework. the announced objective was to ensure that, by the end of parliament's seventh term, all provisions referring to the regulatory procedure with scrutiny were deleted from all legislative instruments. in view of this and in view of the fact that the commission's proposals meet that commitment, i voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - the draft report by mr szájer concerns a proposal covering 160 legislative acts in various fields. the rapporteur proposed that the committees responsible for opinion should consider the three proposals as a package, so that the alignment process could ideally be completed by the end of the current legislature.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it is a proposal for 160 legislative acts covering various areas of the utmost importance to the eu. in line with the rapporteur, i think it would be appropriate to ask the committees responsible for the opinion (econ, itre, empl, envi, imco, etc.) to examine the three proposals put forward by the european commission as a package subject to the same timetable and to approve them as soon as possible, so that the alignment process can ideally be completed by the end of the current legislature. the amendments contained in this report therefore reflect the position of the individual committees which have expressed themselves on this subject.
in writing. - the szájer report is a balanced procedural text which analyses the technical adaptations required following the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. that is why i have voted for it.
in writing. - i am voting in favour because i believe that the rapporteur's initiative to consider the three proposals for alignment with the current legal framework as a single package subject to the same timetable and to be adopted as soon as possible is intended to send a signal to the outside world, and therefore to the citizens, and a signal within the european institutions themselves. i share both messages. in the first case, that is to say, in the external context, the european parliament wants to respect the timetable initially set by the european commission for completing the legal adaptation by the end of this parliamentary term. i appreciate the intention to respect the commitments and to give an efficient image to the citizens. as regards the internal message to the institutions, i believe that parliament, by approving this package, can convey to the council its desire not to wait, not to back down in the face of its reluctance to find a compromise. at the same time, to approve the package would mean giving a boost to the negotiation process between parliament, the council and the commission and ensuring that everything is resolved as quickly as possible and in an agreed manner.
in writing. - in my view, the division of powers in article 5a of decision 1999/468/ec involves a rationalization and clarification of the commission's powers. i shall vote in favour of the proposed regulation.
in writing. - the text by mr szájer proposes to adapt articles 290 and 291 of the tfeu to a series of legal acts providing for the use of regulatory procedures with scrutiny. the commission's general objective is to abolish all provisions referring to the regulatory procedure with scrutiny. to this end, three proposals for regulations were submitted adapting to article 290 tfeu a series of legal acts providing for the use of the regulatory procedure with scrutiny. in this proposal the commission has analysed 160 legislative acts in various fields.
in writing. - this draft report concerns a proposal covering 160 legislative acts in various fields. the rapporteur proposed that the committees responsible for opinion should consider the three proposals as a package, subject to the same timetable and approved as soon as possible, so that the alignment process could ideally be completed by the end of the current legislature. in view of this and also taking into account the limited number of amendments proposed by the specialised committees in their opinions, i voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - having regard to the fact that the committee on budgetary control has assessed the qualifications of the proposed candidate and has taken account of the hearing of the candidate nominated by the council to be a member of the court of auditors in the same committee, i have voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - i found the text of the häfner report to be balanced and acceptable, and i therefore intend to support it with my vote.
in writing. - the amendment to rule 136 is to publish in the minutes of each sitting the names of members who are absent, who must be justified by the president of the assembly as 'excused absences'; the term 'parliamentarians' means those who, after presenting supporting documents to the competent bodies, cannot be present in the chamber because of maternity or paternity, illness, serious family problems or on a mission on behalf of parliament. i voted in favour of this proposal to amend rule 136 of the rules of procedure on the participation of members in sittings because i believe it provides greater completeness and transparency for the citizens of the union.
in writing. - at present, the concept of maternity/paternity leave is not covered by the legal provisions governing parliamentary mandate. the current wording of the article makes a distinction only between members who are 'present' during a sitting (and sign the attendance register) and those who are not, thus not taking into account any justified absences (authorised by the president and managed by the quaestors, pursuant to article 31 of the implementing provisions of the statute for members). the amendment also proposes that the names of absent members, justified by the president as 'justified absences', be published in the minutes of each sitting, thus reducing the negative impact on the attendance record of members and their 'parliamentary activity indicators' on websites such as vote watch, in duly justified cases. i therefore voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - the amendment of rule 136 must be a priority in order to finally allow the names of members who were not present at the sitting but had been justified by the president, for example, because they were on maternity leave, to be published explicitly in the minutes. motherhood is not a disease: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament.
in writing. - pursuant to rule 212 (1), the committee on constitutional affairs is required to examine the proposal to amend rule 136, which aims to publish explicitly in the minutes the names of members who were not present at the sitting but had been justified by the president (for example because they were on maternity/paternity leave), which is not covered by the legal provisions governing parliamentary mandate. the amendment, which i think is acceptable, provides that members justified by the president (on presentation of supporting documents to the quaestors) on grounds of illness or serious family reasons, or on a mission carried out on behalf of parliament, waiting for the birth of a child or maternity leave, will no longer be considered "not present" on the attendance list, in order to reduce the negative impact on the attendance list of members and on the related "parliamentary activity indicators" of certain websites monitoring the activity of meps, in duly justified cases.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i am voting in favour of mr ulmer's report on how to achieve a reduction in co2 emissions from new cars. this is an important agreement for the whole union, which came at the end of a complex and not entirely correct procedure, during which the european union was paralysed for a few months by a german veto on an agreement already reached. but we have now reached a conclusion, and i think it is a good one. the community's average target of 95 grams of co2 by 2020 is significant and is a step in the right direction towards a gradual but steady reduction in the overall emissions of the european union and the decarbonisation of our economy, while allowing industry a reasonable time to make the necessary adjustments.
in writing. - the proposal which we as the ppe group have approved is intended to achieve, through the use of modern drive systems, a further reduction in co2 emissions from new vehicles which is not only substantial but also economically and ecologically viable. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a directive on the emission of gaseous pollutants from motor vehicles. the incentive scheme should allow all manufacturers to save up to 2020 on so-called 'super credits', which would be managed by the commission through a public register. manufacturers would thus be able to inform the commission whether or not the super credits saved should be flexibly calculated for each calendar year in order to achieve their individual target. however, manufacturers will only be able to claim supercredits if they do not exceed their specific emissions targets by more than 15% for a given calendar year. the incentive scheme will expire in 2023.
in writing. - i did not support the ulmer report because the positions it advocates coincide with the setting of overly stringent and binding targets which once again penalise the automobile sector, which is already heavily affected by the crisis.
in writing. - in this area we can say that a market-oriented approach has fostered technological improvements in the private sector which qualify demand and allow the legislator a certain ambition. the report maintains this approach - i am also referring to amendments nos 6, 21 and 22 - and proposes a measure in terms of accompanying production processes which are already well established in industry, such as the changeover of parameters from mass to footprint. the expected dominance of conventional engines can be seen as a positive factor for investment in technology. however, we should not forget that in a few years' time, alternative fuel cars are projected to account for 10% of the road traffic and that some observers (e.g. morgan stanley) predict a share of electric vehicles with a high range of around 5% by 2020. so the business-friendly approach pays off, by also guiding consumption along lines of environmental awareness. in 2020 the emission limits set today could be exceeded by a more general discussion of energy budget, mobility management, new modes of mass public transport. i would point out that in italy - which is certainly complicit in the fall in production and the contraction of the domestic market - more bicycles were sold than cars in 2013.
in writing. - i believe that setting a target of reducing co2 emissions from new cars by 2020 is an essential prerogative for the eu. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i voted in favour of the proposal, considering that, secondly, the union will be less dependent on oil, and that this will be due to the increasing efficiency and sustainability of cars, which will make the dependence on 'black gold' less and less. the commission has also taken into account the fact that the high price of fossil fuels is currently a serious threat to economic recovery. the proposed target for 2025 is 70 g co2/km. this target can only be achieved if the assessments of actual emissions are as uniform as possible: i fully agree with the rapporteur that a new test cycle should be developed quickly, which clearly and adequately reflects the real emissions of passenger cars and which excludes divergent interpretations and any differences between member states.
in writing. - the report concerns the amendment of regulation (ec) no 443/2009 by laying down the modalities for achieving the target of 90 g co2/km by 2020; the aim is to reduce co2 emissions from new cars. i am voting against the text because these measures do not help the european car market, but rather penalize it further.
in writing. - the european union has already shown a strong commitment to the 2020 target for reducing co2 emissions and has recently expressed its intention to step up its efforts towards an ecological policy. the eu intends to use initiatives that provide for car manufacturers to install modern drive systems in new passenger cars, further reducing emissions. adapting to new systems can be more costly for manufacturers, especially for high-end vehicles which often serve as a stepping stone to new technologies. the rapporteur therefore proposes the introduction of a system of incentives for the development and promotion of less polluting vehicles, so as to encourage investment by car manufacturers in greener and alternative systems. i voted in favour of the report because i believe that there must be more and more and more consistent efforts to pursue a green policy that protects the health of citizens and the environment.
in writing. - recent statistics show that co2 emissions from the road transport sector account for one fifth of the total co2 emissions in the european union. the worrying fact is that further increases in emissions levels are expected in the coming years. to reverse this trend, the european union has set itself the goal of transitioning to a sustainable and resource-efficient economy. the resolution tabled by mr ulmer is a further step towards achieving these objectives. the amendment to regulation (ec) no 443/2009 will result in stricter limits on co2 emissions from new passenger cars in the eu and incentives for low-emission vehicles. in the belief that these issues can be tackled more effectively at european level, i believe that the actions undertaken will help to increase the efficiency and sustainability of the automotive sector, reduce dependence on non-renewable energy sources and reduce the impact on the environment.
in writing. - in line with the europe 2020 objectives, the reduction of co2 emissions from newly produced cars is a proposal for a regulation which i am in full support of. the regulation is specific in that it sets out the proportion by which car manufacturers will have to comply with the co2 emission ceiling; the limit value to be complied with will increase as the vehicle weight increases and vice versa. the value will therefore be around the community average target of 95 g co2/km for new passenger cars, to be reached by 2020.
in writing. - the proposal under consideration is intended to achieve, through the use of modern drive systems, a further reduction in co2 emissions from new vehicles which is not only substantial but also economically and environmentally viable. given that it is appropriate to encourage manufacturers of new passenger cars and their suppliers to certify and incorporate into new vehicles technologies or technology packages (eco-innovations) designed to further reduce fuel consumption and the associated co2 emissions, and that there are as yet no recognised eco-innovations, as the testing procedure is too long and excessively burdensome, i have decided to vote in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - the european parliament today approved in plenary the report by mr ulmer on the new rules for reducing co2 emissions from new passenger cars. the target set is 95 g/km by 2020. the text provides for an adaptation phase limited to one year (2020) and a system of 'super credits', valid between 2020 and 2022, in which the least polluting cars 'count' more than the most polluting ones. the incentive system allowing manufacturers to compensate for the production of polluting cars with less polluting ones could be active between 2020 and 2022.
in writing. - the path towards the gradual reduction of co2 emissions from new vehicles must continue smoothly in order to achieve the environmental and economic objectives envisaged. the supercredit system must be implemented in order to encourage manufacturers to continue to invest more in alternative transmission systems and to market them, with the ultimate aim of protecting the health of european citizens without penalising their freedom.
in writing. - the carbon dioxide emission limits for new cars are quite ambitious, but they represent an important goal to be achieved, yet in some ways unrealistic. a system is needed to promote the development and use of new, greener transmission systems and the costs of these innovations must not be too heavy for member states' budgets, which are already in serious difficulties. at the same time, however, the economic and productive sustainability of manufacturers must be guaranteed. i therefore believe it is important to encourage manufacturers to incorporate co2-reducing technologies into new vehicles. in addition, consumers should be able to compare different products easily, through a standardized test procedure, the 'new european driving cycle'. finally, i agree with the rapporteur that, given the impossibility of predicting which transmission systems will be accepted by consumers, it is not reasonable to submit a proposal for the revision of the legislation for the period after 2020 as early as 2014.
in writing. - mr ulmer's report aims to achieve, through the use of modern drive systems, a further reduction in co2 emissions from new vehicles which is not only substantial but also economically and environmentally viable. in the coming years, the emission limits for cars will be lowered further, with ambitious targets that will only be possible thanks to the efforts of manufacturers to research new technologies and eco-innovations. for these reasons, it will be important to aim for low co2 emissions while ensuring the survival of a wide range of manufacturers in order to preserve conditions of fair competition among manufacturers of new passenger cars.
it is important to protect and defend our companies against counterfeit goods from third countries, even if they are only in transit through european territory. the community trade mark system needs to be made more accessible to european smes and more efficient by simplifying and speeding up trade mark registration procedures, reducing the costs of the registration system and ensuring better coordination between the office for harmonization in the internal market and national offices, and finally improving the levels of protection of trade marks against counterfeiting.
i agree with the approach of the two reports on the community trade mark because they have two objectives: simplification and reduction of registration costs. i would like to express my disagreement with the article on certain points, because i believe that trademark legislation should be geared to greater protection of the rights of the proprietors. finally, in future, the protection of the rights of the proprietor must be achieved by the obligation to indicate the origin of all commercial goods, without exception. the trade mark of origin promotes consumer choice, rewards the manufacturing, craft and food and wine excellence of our territories, and is therefore a great opportunity because this is the europe we must revive and enhance.
in writing. - following the submission of the proposal for the revision of the trade mark system in europe in march 2013, the rapporteur aims with this report to adopt these proposals during the current legislature. although i have approved this report as a ppe, i am aware that, because of the time constraints and the need to reach a rapid agreement between the institutions, we risk accepting compromises on the quality of the legislative process and missing the opportunity to modernise the regulatory apparatus governing the community trade mark. in line with the rapporteur, i think it is useful, in addition to an overall review, to make some changes to the community trade mark system and to the governance of ohim in order to continue to guarantee its transparency and independence as the eu trade mark registration agency. i therefore welcome both the substantive improvements proposed by the commission and some of the amendments presented in this report, in particular the name of the agency, definitions, governance issues, fees, delegated acts, cooperation between ohim and member states and, finally, implementing measures.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation because i believe it is important to improve the level of protection of trade marks against counterfeiting. this is a problem which has not only financial repercussions - loss of economy and competitiveness of our companies - but also health consequences for consumers. it is therefore necessary to strengthen the control of goods in transit and to create a mechanism to ensure the effective operation of the right of intervention for the eu trade mark proprietor and to entrust the customs agency (or other competent national authority) with the power to control goods in transit. as the gatt agreement on international trade has already recognized, there is clearly no risk of hindering this.
in writing. - here in strasbourg we have taken another small step forward to protect our consumers and our companies, but we had to be even more incisive and careful. it is good that the commission, by revising the community trade mark regulation which has been in force for 15 years now, should authorise trade mark proprietors to prevent counterfeit trade mark products from non-eu countries from entering the customs territory of the european union, but this possibility should be provided for on the basis of a simple procedure, avoiding that those who are injured are then burdened with additional burdens in order to assert their rights. i hope that efforts will continue to combat the introduction of counterfeit branded products on the european market and their sale. zero tolerance against trade in counterfeit and mostly toxic goods; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected.
in writing. - we consider the amendments tabled by the juri committee unsatisfactory, as they do not reduce the obstacles which currently limit the controls and protection of the owners of registered european trade marks in respect of goods in transit through the customs territory of the eu. we must guarantee the right of the registered trade mark holder to prevent counterfeit goods from entering the customs territory of the eu without incurring additional charges. this report, as amended, is leading us to take a step backwards in the protection of intellectual property, making it almost impossible to seize counterfeit goods, to the detriment of the european manufacturing system and in particular of smes which continue to suffer the aftermath of the serious economic and financial crisis which still today is weighing on european production and employment.
in writing. - the community trade mark system is constantly evolving and, in line with the commission's communication on the single market for intellectual property rights, the legislation of the eu member states on this subject needs to be brought into line with the single market. the aim of the text is to simplify the registration of trade marks at european level by reducing their costs and, above all, to harmonize the various national regulations into a single community legislation which can also improve controls against trade mark infringement. the ohim, office for harmonization in the internal market, deals with changes to the governance of the community trade mark.
in writing. - ohim has become an effective and functioning agency with the clear objective of assisting the trade mark and design sector in europe. the addition of new functions, such as the european observatory on infringements of intellectual property rights and databases on orphan works, demonstrates the trust placed in the agency by the co-legislators and the commission. furthermore, the agency is neither an agency of a member state, nor an agency of the commission or of parliament, but an agency of the european union. therefore, some changes to governance are necessary, in particular following the approach provided by the common guideline on decentralised agencies. i therefore voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - there is a need for a rapid agreement between the institutions to modernise the community trade mark system in europe. after more than 15 years, the existing rules need to be revised to improve a system that has achieved great results.
in writing. - the community trade mark system has been a great success, but it is now time to modernise it, first of all to ensure the independence and competence of ohim. i support the amendments to the definitions concerning the designation 'european union trade mark', which clearly defines the territorial area of protection. as regards the governance of the agency, the common approach should be followed, which provides that the boards of the agencies are to be composed of representatives of the member states, the commission and also the european parliament. as regards the selection of the executive director of the agency, i agree with the rapporteur that the commission's veto power should be removed from the proposal. as regards taxes, since they are a subject of intense political debate, their definition should not be included among the subjects of the delegated acts, but rather requires greater involvement of parliament. i think that the proposal contains too many delegated acts and that many of them go beyond what is normally referred to as a delegated act.
it is very important, in my view, that the various states start to harmonize their confiscation procedures. the difference between the various national laws has a negative, very negative effect on the efficiency of the results and on the capacity for cooperation between the various states. this is to the advantage of the large criminal organizations, which are far ahead of the national states in their ability to act with a supranational strategy. that is why i voted in favour of this directive, because, although it is a small common denominator, it shows that it is possible to take a step in the right direction. from this point of view, it is very desirable that we proceed on this side, looking at those laws and those countries, such as italy, which have very advanced legislation and experience on this subject of confiscation procedures.
the european institutions, by adopting the proposal for a directive on the freezing and confiscation of the proceeds of crime, are legally consolidating the awareness that the fight against organised crime can be effective if the heart of all forms of crime is struck, that is, profit. the measure introduces minimum rules for member states on the freezing and confiscation of the proceeds of crime through direct confiscation and extended confiscation powers, including those not based on conviction. these regulatory elements will allow for a more effective diversion of the illicit assets accumulated over time by criminal organisations, effectively eliminating the key tool used by these organisations to infiltrate the legal economy. i believe that, in the light of the approval of this dossier, it is also appropriate at european level to promote and encourage the conversion and use of these assets for economic and social purposes. in my country, italy, alone, the state is reported to have more than 80 billion euros in confiscated assets.
in writing. - i voted for this report because the proposal for a new legislation on confiscation of the proceeds of crime was strongly advocated by this parliament. thanks to this directive, member states will have common rules for the freezing and confiscation of criminal assets through direct confiscation, value confiscation, extended confiscation, non-conviction-based confiscation and third-party confiscation. this will harmonise the euʼs freezing and confiscation regimes, facilitating mutual trust and effective cross-border cooperation. most of all, it will also constitute a step towards strengthening the mutual recognition of freezing and confiscation orders which is an important aspect of the fight against cross-border serious and organised crime in the eu.
in writing. - the report we approved as the ppe supports the european commission's proposal for a directive on the freezing and confiscation of the proceeds of crime in the eu. this directive was adopted as early as the first quarter of 2012 and lays down minimum rules for the confiscation of the proceeds of crime through instruments such as direct confiscation, substitute value penalties, extended confiscation powers, confiscation not based on conviction and confiscation vis-à-vis third parties. the report therefore, in addition to supporting the commission's directive, stresses the importance of strengthening and harmonising the legal framework for civil, criminal and tax law, so that there are common standards and crossborder cooperation is promoted in order to prevent the laundering of the proceeds of crime for the commission of future crimes or the financing of illegal activities.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the macovei report analysing the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the freezing and confiscation of the proceeds of crime in the european union. i believe that this directive will be able to support the work of our authorities in countering criminal organizations in their cross-border activities.
in writing. - profit is the driving force behind crossborder organised crime, which is why i believe that the rules on the freezing and confiscation of assets from illegal activities need to be improved. data on the implementation of these measures in the various member states are scarce. in this regard, the authorities should have the means to trace, freeze, manage and confiscate the proceeds of crime. states must take all appropriate measures, whether legislative or otherwise, to properly manage assets frozen prior to confiscation, while preserving their value. i believe that there is a need for greater cooperation at community level between law enforcement agencies in the field of asset recovery and mutual legal assistance; i voted in favour, considering also how confiscated property could be used for projects aimed at preventing and combating crime or for social purposes. i hope that this will lead to the creation of a culture of legality which, through action to combat organised crime, will be able to implement initiatives for the community or the socioeconomic development of a territory. i hope that the main objective of this directive will be to harmonize the various systems in force in the member states, promoting mutual trust and effective crossborder cooperation.
in writing. - as the european parliament we have repeatedly called on the commission to submit new legislative proposals on confiscation, stressing in particular the need for rules for the effective use of extended confiscation and confiscation in the absence of conviction. this proposal for a directive on the freezing and confiscation of the proceeds of crime in the european union finally introduces minimum rules for member states on the freezing and confiscation of the proceeds of crime by means of direct confiscation, substitute penalties for the value in question, extended confiscation powers, confiscation not based on conviction and confiscation vis-à-vis third parties. we believe that the adoption of these minimum standards is essential because it will harmonise the member states' freezing and confiscation regimes, promoting mutual trust and effective crossborder cooperation. it will also represent progress towards enhancing the mutual recognition of freezing and confiscation orders, which is an important aspect in the fight against serious forms of cross-border organised crime across the european union.
in writing. - this directive lays down minimum rules for member states concerning the freezing and confiscation of the proceeds of crime in the european union. the adoption of such minimum standards harmonises the freezing and confiscation of assets regimes of the member states, promoting mutual trust and effective cross-border cooperation. i have supported this measure as it represents an important step forward towards strengthening the mutual recognition of freezing and confiscation measures, which is an important aspect in the fight against crossborder organised crime in the european union. confiscation, which is already one of the main tools in italy to combat the mafia, will therefore also become law in the eu. i hope that the adoption of this directive will also bring about the implementation in the member states of the rules on the reuse of confiscated property for social purposes, as is the case in italy, thanks also to the valuable contribution of many associations which, by their daily work, make the property stolen from the mafiosi productive.
in writing. - the best way to combat organised crime is to strike at the heart of its interests, namely economic profit. it is certainly true that organised crime groups operate across borders and increasingly acquire assets in other member states and in third countries. it is therefore essential that there be strong cooperation between the various authorities so that assets resulting from illicit activities can be detected and confiscated wherever they are. the adoption of minimum standards in this area will help to harmonize the systems for freezing and confiscation of assets, in view of the fact that a common struggle must be fought if it is to be successful. italy is unfortunately - but i would also say fortunately - an example for other european countries, since measures to freeze and confiscate mafia assets have been in force for some time in our country. this should be taken as a starting point, given the many cases of excellent results, but we must not forget that all too often we have seen absurd situations, with confiscated property ending up in the hands of other criminals or left in complete neglect. if we can fix these problems, the whole economy could certainly benefit, and we could see a real recovery.
in writing. the text by mr macovei on the freezing and confiscation of the proceeds of crime in the european union was designed to strengthen confiscation provisions in the eu. the aim is to enable the authorities to confiscate assets which are considered to be proceeds of crime and which can be used for future crimes. the main criticism of the text, however, remains the possibility for the authorities to confiscate assets from persons who have not yet been convicted.
in writing. - i vote in favour of the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the freezing and confiscation of the proceeds from crime in the european union. the new rules will introduce minimum rules for member states on the freezing and confiscation of proceeds of crime, harmonise the freezing and confiscation of assets of member states and promote mutual trust and effective crossborder cooperation. the adoption of this resolution will therefore make it possible to prevent the use of proceeds of crime for the commission of future crimes or reinvestment in illegal activities, contributing to the fight against serious forms of cross-border organised crime in the european union.
in writing. - the proposal for a directive on the freezing and confiscation of the proceeds of crime in the european union was approved by the european commission on 12 march 2012. this directive introduces minimum rules for member states on the freezing and confiscation of the proceeds of crime through direct confiscation, substitute penalties for the value in question, extended confiscation powers, confiscation not based on conviction and confiscation against third parties. the report aims to strengthen the provisions on non-conviction based confiscation and extended confiscation in order to make them more effective and thus prevent the use of proceeds of crime for the commission of future crimes or reinvestment in illegal activities. i therefore voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - parliament approved new european rules to help national authorities confiscate the proceeds of crime. today, less than 1% of the proceeds of crimes such as drug trafficking, human trafficking, counterfeiting, trafficking and smuggling of small arms are confiscated. the bill, already informally agreed with national governments, is part of a wider eu strategy to fight fraud and corruption. the rapporteur, mr macovei, stressed the importance of being able to 'track' the flow of money across borders and ensure the confiscation of criminal proceeds. the draft law requires member states to confiscate the proceeds of crime following a final criminal conviction, allowing authorities to confiscate proceeds even if the suspect or accused is ill or absconding through absentia proceedings and to confiscate proceeds acquired by third parties. the report also states that member states should take measures to allow confiscated assets to be used in the public interest and to encourage their social reuse.
in writing. - it is necessary to have rules which allow the effective use of extended confiscation also in respect of property held by third parties where it is the result of illicit trafficking. minimum penalties guaranteed for all member states would allow for greater uniformity of judgement, promoting mutual trust and effective crossborder cooperation.
in writing. - the commission proposal is satisfactory on the whole, since it aims at harmonizing the systems for freezing and confiscating property in the various member states. some provisions, however, need to be strengthened, especially to prevent the proceeds of crime from being used for subsequent crimes. at european level, existing systems of confiscation not based on conviction have been widely discussed before national courts and the european court of human rights, which have found that such systems are compatible with national constitutional requirements and with those of the european court of human rights, provided that they can be challenged before a court and are approved by a judicial authority, in full respect of the rights of the defence and of bona fide third parties. all these measures have been included. they also agree with the strengthening of the confiscation powers through a set of minimum rules in line with the threshold established by framework decision 2005/212/jha.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mrs macovei's text which seeks to strengthen the provisions on confiscation not based on conviction and extended confiscation, so as to make them more effective and thus prevent the use of proceeds of crime for the commission of future crimes or their reinvestment in illegal activities.
the world trade in counterfeit goods is worth 200 billion euros a year, with a negative impact on the economy and beyond. counterfeiting slows down european economic competitiveness and growth, creates unemployment and is a threat to the health and safety of citizens. honest entrepreneurs are discouraged from investing in research and innovation and last but not least, intellectual property is not protected. the priorities should therefore include effective customs controls and the encouragement of checks on the origin of products and their traceability.
in writing. - i have approved the report by mr wikström on national trademark legislation, as i did with report a7-0031/2014. following the commission's march 2013 revision proposal and in line with the rapporteur, i find it correct that the parties involved are making a joint effort to adopt the commission's adaptations during the current legislature. although both the rapporteur and the juri committee agree with the commission's proposals for revision, i welcome the amendments tabled by my colleague on some equally important points. this report rightly takes into account the need to harmonise the laws of the member states in order to draw on best practices in the field of trade mark law, thereby consolidating the substantive law in this field and improving the procedures concerning trade marks. the ultimate objective must also be to strengthen the system and ensure the protection due to registered trade marks: it should be flexible enough to allow its users to have access to protection that reflects their needs. in any event, harmonization does not mean the harmonization of national laws: the specific characteristics of each member state will have to be preserved because they are linked to the territorial nature and protection offered at national level.
in writing. - the wikström report on the community trade mark is well thought out and goes in the direction of revising the regulation to modernise the existing trade mark provisions. for these reasons i have decided to support it with my vote.
in writing. - i voted for this directive. a directive to harmonise the rules on trade marks at european level has been in place for 20 years, but we have now made changes to make the system more efficient by improving cooperation between national trade mark offices and the european office in alicante, spain. i think it is important that the owner of a trade mark should decide whether or not to register his trade mark at national or european level. if you wish to register your trade mark in one member state only, you are free to do so, otherwise you may use the community trade mark.
in writing. - the eu trade mark system is constantly evolving and, in line with the commission's communication on the single market for intellectual property rights, eu member states' trade mark legislation needs to be brought into line with the single market. the aim of the text is therefore to simplify the registration of european companies' trademarks, in order to protect the intellectual property of the trademark. the office for harmonization in the internal market (ohim) is responsible for this harmonization by increasing the number of checks against counterfeiting, reducing their costs and, above all, by harmonizing the various national regulations into a single community law.
in writing. - the directive on the harmonisation of certain aspects of the law of the member states of the european union on trade marks has been in existence for over 20 years. its current revision offers the opportunity to learn from best practice and to strengthen the elements of harmonisation of the substantive law and procedures relating to trade marks used by national trade mark offices. furthermore, since the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission considers that the proposal in question does not contain any substantive changes other than those expressly indicated as such and that, as regards the provisions of the existing texts which remain unchanged, the proposal is limited to a mere codification of those provisions without any substantive changes, i have voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - there is little time left to adopt the long-awaited proposal to revise the trade mark system in europe. the quality of the draft legislation must not be compromised, nor must the opportunity to modernise it by maintaining and strengthening the dual-tier system of trademark protection in europe be missed.
in writing. - one of the key points of this legislative package is the regime for goods in transit, which is closely linked to the protection of trade marks and, therefore, the value of companies. unfortunately, counterfeit goods of these brands are increasingly coming from non-eu countries, usually china, and under the community legislation, the community customs authorities have a limited scope for action where the eu is only indicated as a port of transit. i believe it is of the utmost importance to create an efficient and effective system for the protection of rights holders, whether they are smes or large companies. their contribution to economic growth, employment and exports in a country like italy is crucial now and, above all, will be increasingly so in the future. in particular, i supported and supported the amendments supported by the ppe group which expressly concern the need for eu customs authorities to be able to carry out checks on goods in transit. i believe that the issue of controls on goods in transit at eu ports without strong de facto regulation would make the eu an even more privileged hub for illicit transits than it is today.
in writing. - the dual protection system is still used in the eu by many users, either because some users want to maintain protection in one member state only, or because some users have been unable to obtain an eu trade mark because of prior rights existing in one or more member states. it is therefore appropriate to harmonise the procedures so that users are not forced to face completely different procedural approaches in the different member states where they wish to be protected. as regards the obstacles involved, i agree with the rapporteur and the commission that this procedure can cause considerable delays and costs. however, i believe that the national offices may still decide to continue to provide prior rights searches. administrative simplification is another very important issue, as the attractiveness of the national trade mark system can be further enhanced by simplifying procedural rules.
i believe that a strong cooperation agency between the various police authorities is fundamental to the strategy of combating organised crime in the european field, and therefore a strong europol is very important. but europol must be able to act effectively and at the same time be a transparent instrument under democratic control by the european parliament and the national parliaments. for this reason too, i believe it is right to strengthen the rules governing the protection of personal data. the recent events in this field have shown us how vulnerable our institutions are and above all how defenseless our citizens are before the overwhelming power of agencies without any control. that is why i voted in favour of this regulation, because it combines these two principles.
in writing. - established in 1995, the european police office (europol) has evolved over the years, but like many other agencies orbiting around the eu, it too must adapt to new needs and keep pace with the new challenges that arise in its field of operation. the proposal for a report which we as the ppe have approved is aimed at improving its functions and the way in which cooperation with the member states is carried out. in line with the rapporteur, i believe that europol's governance should be modernised by making it more efficient, by establishing a control mechanism managed by parliament, by equipping europol with a system that better protects its data and information and by entrusting the european data protection supervisor with the task of supervising the processing of europol's personal data in complete independence. in order to have an overall view, an impact assessment was also carried out both to increase the information that member states provide to europol and to enable europol to provide the right assistance to member states in preventing and combating crime and terrorism.
in writing. - i found the report analysing the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing the european union agency for law enforcement cooperation and training (europol) to be a balanced and acceptable text. that is why i voted for it.
in writing. - having regard to the five thematic areas proposed by the commission, as amended in the version under consideration today, i shall vote in favour of the report on europol. i would nevertheless like to make a few points of caution as a reminder to this house, which is duly given powers of control and supervision by the rules of procedure. the first concerns the difficult balance between an effective integrated response of our security systems to criminal and terrorist threats and the increased need to protect data and information not relevant to investigative activities. there are some amendments to this, but i am afraid we have not finished reading reports of widespread abuse and exploitation and we will have to come back to you regularly. the second concerns the delicate position of the national units as the exponential body of the states on the one hand and as the terminal of europol on the other. it is true that the alternative of a single european force is premature, if not out of order, but this will require regular revisions of the operational protocols as laid down in the regulation. the third caveat relates to the guarantee system in the decision-making process of the cor, based on qualified majority voting, which has possible drawbacks in terms of operational effectiveness, which will have to be overcome on the basis of experience.
in writing. - in recent years, the effects of globalisation on societies have facilitated new and significant variants of criminal activity: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. i therefore believe that it is right to work on a new europol, which is more organised, more efficient and in which the exchange of information is intensified in order to achieve greater productivity. the report presented to the libe committee meets this need and goes beyond the acceptable and serious proposals. one aspect of the changes which will be made is particularly interesting to me: the european parliament, the only institution democratically elected by the citizens, should play a greater role. the creation of a parliamentary monitoring unit, composed of the committee responsible and a representative of the european commission (in charge of internal affairs) will monitor europol's activities on a permanent basis at the premises of parliament. the increased presence of the european and national institutions will also be reflected in the members of the administrative board: the commission will be represented by the member states. the improvements are interesting, as are the amendments proposed by the rapporteur. i therefore support this report and i shall vote in favour.
in writing. - in recent years, the european union has seen an increase and diversification of serious and organised crime. it is therefore essential to have an effective and efficient european police office in cooperation and exchange of all information. we are convinced, however, that all europol's activities must be subject to the control of the democratically elected representatives of the citizens of the union, namely the european parliament in association with the national parliaments (parliamentary control specifically provided for in article 53 of these rules of procedure). we also support this regulation because it aims to improve the governance of europol itself, increase its efficiency and streamline procedures, especially as regards the management board and the executive director. in addition, in order to ensure the smooth functioning of the management board, the commission and the member states should always be represented by one member each.
in writing. - the european union agency for law enforcement cooperation and training (europol) is the european police office responsible for combating organised crime. the report on the proposal for a regulation clearly defines europol's field of action, its functions and the arrangements for cooperation with the member states. the european parliament, together with the national parliaments, will be responsible for monitoring the activities of the agency. this system will facilitate the exchange of information and data for control actions throughout the european union.
in writing. - europol is becoming increasingly important in facilitating the exchange of information between member states' crime-fighting authorities and in providing crime analysis services to assist national police forces in cross-border investigations. furthermore, as one of the objectives of the proposal under consideration is to improve its governance by making it more efficient, to increase the exchange of information and to establish by regulation the regulatory framework for the introduction of a mechanism for monitoring europol's activities by the european parliament in association with the national parliaments, i voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - we must define more clearly the scope of europol's activities, its functions and the way in which it cooperates with the member states. to achieve this, europol must first be brought into line with the requirements of the lisbon treaty by establishing europol's regulatory framework by means of a regulation and by introducing a mechanism for the european parliament to monitor europol's activities in association with the national parliaments.
in writing. - the proposal clearly defines europol's scope of action, its functions and the arrangements for cooperation with the member states, and it also brings europol into line with the requirements of the lisbon treaty, improves its governance and improves the exchange of information. the democratic control of europol is a very important issue, which is why i welcome the fact that the consolidated annual activity report on europol's activities, the annual and multiannual work programme and the annual report of the european data protection supervisor on europol's supervisory activities are being discussed before parliament. the rationalization of procedures is a highly significant issue, as it ensures efficient use of resources and operational efficiency. data protection is also a subject which i particularly care about and i think that the proposal strengthens the protection regime in a satisfactory way. as regards the exchange of information, the obligation for member states to provide europol with the relevant data and the system for the exchange of information established by the regulation ensure a proper exchange which can benefit the efficiency of the agency as a whole.
the proposal for a directive is an important tool for the effective management of legal migration, preventing exploitation and illegal labour, and is also useful for the fair treatment of third country nationals legally residing in the member states. it is important to improve the provisions relating to third-country nationals who are researchers, students, unpaid trainees and volunteers, and to apply common provisions also to paid trainees and persons placed on an equal footing. at the same time, however, maximum transparency and legal certainty must be guaranteed with limits on the right of residence for the purpose of seeking employment or starting up a business. i do not agree with the idea of extending the provisions on family reunification to researchers and students.
europe needs to promote, beyond its fears and demagoguery, a strong immigration policy. a policy which is capable of attracting skilled migrants from third countries, enabling them to acquire skills and knowledge through a period of training here in europe. this is a twofold positive action: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the creation of a european network of trainers, the development of a european network of trainers and the development of a european network of trainers. that is why i voted very strongly in favour of this proposal for a directive and i believe that we must proceed with great determination with this approach.
in writing. - i did not intend to vote in favour of the wikström report on the conditions of entry and residence of thirdcountry nationals. i do not share the political message that your colleague is trying to convey, namely that europe will increasingly depend on immigration from third countries to fill the vacancies for its growth. the eu must respond to the crisis it is experiencing by supporting its citizens first and foremost with serious and concrete policies directed at them.
in writing. - i consider the report to be a good report and useful in regulating more effectively the addition of resources which the european union needs and will need more and more in the future. the immigration needed to maintain the ratio of the labour force to the total population at 2010 levels over the period 2010-2020 is estimated to be around 11 million people. to achieve this, the union needs clear regulation and i believe that this report is the right one. europe must focus on the quality of its workforce to fill the job gap and ensure economic growth. a proactive immigration policy, such as that called for in the report, can bring benefits to the economic system, contribute to entrepreneurship, diversity and innovation. i appreciate the attempt to solve the 'innovation emergency' europe is experiencing and i believe that the contribution of students, trainees and volunteers from third countries can make a significant contribution to solving this problem. it would be right to regard these people as a resource for europe and to ensure that they have proper jurisdiction. finally, i appreciate the rapporteur's call for the protection of security for immigrants and european citizens alike.
in writing. - we welcome this directive on a simplified procedure specifically designed for the admission of thirdcountry nationals for the purposes of scientific research, study, pupil exchange, unpaid traineeship or voluntary work, because it also provides for the extension to two new categories: paid trainees and persons placed on an equal footing. we believe that this will help to prevent exploitation and undeclared work. the european union has a very attractive labour market for skilled workers from all over the world. a proactive migration policy would address labour shortages in some sectors and it has been shown that the skills of migrants are often complementary to those of other workers, with positive effects for employers and for economic activity. we are particularly pleased with the rapporteur's proposal that third-country nationals should be allowed to stay in the territory of a member state for a sufficient period of time after completing their studies or research to look for work or to set up a business.
in writing. - i consider mr wikström's text to be a good report insofar as it considers that the european union should be an example and attract workers, students and investment from all over the world. the report on the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals stresses that the eu is open to all and that there are conditions for personal and intercultural growth. the basis for sharing with third-country nationals is thus improved, and their ability to enter and stay in the eu for the purposes of research, study, pupil exchange, paid and unpaid traineeship, voluntary work and equal employment is regulated.
in writing. - europe will increasingly depend on immigration to fill job vacancies and ensure economic growth. good immigration management could therefore address the problems of an ageing population and a shortage of skilled labour in many sectors. in view of this and taking into account that the proposal under consideration aims to improve the provisions relating to the conditions of admission of third-country nationals for the purposes of study, pupil exchange, unpaid traineeship or voluntary work, and although it contains elements which are not entirely compatible, i voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - parliament today approved by 578 votes in favour of mrs wikström's report, which suggests the adoption of new rules to ensure that the eu offers better living and working conditions to talented students and researchers from outside the eu. the rules would make it clearer what conditions apply to the entry and residence of foreign trainees, volunteers, pupils and 'alla-peers'. the new rules should give third-country nationals the right to remain in the member state where they have studied or carried out their research for a period of 18 months after completing their research or studies, in order to seek employment or set up a company. the family members of researchers and students should also have the right to stay and work for the same period. the european parliament voted the bill at first reading to consolidate the work done so far and hand it over to the next parliament, ensuring that the elected members of parliament in may do not start from scratch but continue the work done during the current term of office.
in writing. - to prevent exploitation and undeclared work, it is necessary to include in the current directive also the categories of paid trainees and persons placed on an equal footing. only then will they be allowed access to a simplified procedure for admitting third country nationals to the european union.
in writing. - the new proposal introduces, in addition to some changes, two new categories of paid trainees and persons placed on an equal footing, in order to combat the exploitation of undeclared work. europe will increasingly depend on immigration to fill job vacancies and ensure economic growth. good immigration management is therefore essential to tackle the problems of an ageing european population and the shortage of skilled labour in certain sectors. i agree with the provision on refusal of authorisation on grounds of public policy, public security or public health, which states that refusal should be limited to the personal conduct of the third country national concerned. i also agree with the rapporteur that third country nationals should be allowed a period of residence sufficient to enable them to look for work or to set up a business. as regards intra-eu mobility, i agree with the rapporteur that it is a good idea to extend it to unpaid trainees and volunteers.
the proposal to establish the european voluntary humanitarian aid corps is a good one. solidarity in the form of volunteering is one of the founding values of the european union, which is number one in humanitarian aid. the creation of this body can therefore help to strengthen humanitarian aid operations in third countries in a very concrete way and to promote a sense of european citizenship in a visible way. the european union aid volunteers initiative complements and strengthens the humanitarian action of the european union and is a valuable tool to raise public awareness and to help highlight the value of european citizenship.
the proposal for a regulation establishing the european voluntary humanitarian aid corps bears witness to the values of the union's commitment and solidarity towards people in need. the establishment of a european voluntary service will help to fill the gaps in current humanitarian volunteering and will contribute to raising public awareness of the idea of european citizenship. i agree with the rapporteur that the formation of the voluntary corps must be strictly regulated, with selection criteria based on the specific skills of the volunteers and the use of the corps, but i would point out that it cannot be involved in any way in armed conflicts. i hope that this initiative will help to promote the union's founding values of peace and solidarity.
in writing. - i voted for this report because i support the creation of the european voluntary humanitarian aid corps. the corps will fill the gaps which currently exist in humanitarian volunteer work, and will also help to cultivate public awareness and the idea of eu citizenship. i believe the eu aid volunteers will provide genuine added value for the eu’s humanitarian action. it is important to stress that the role of the volunteers must be clearly defined and that the eu aid volunteers initiative should be an entirely humanitarian instrument supplementing and enhancing the eu’s humanitarian action, with the best possible use of the funding provided.
in writing. - the report we approved as a ppe focuses on the concept of volunteering as an expression of solidarity with those who are subject to humanitarian crises and emergency situations. the rapporteur's proposals also include the establishment of an ad hoc body, the volunteer corps, which should complement existing forms of volunteering and help to raise public awareness. in the face of a steady increase in humanitarian crises, the eu must be able to provide adequate humanitarian aid, capable of supporting all humanitarian operations. i welcome all the ideas put forward by the rapporteur on the added value of volunteering and its impact in mitigating, if not curbing, the consequences of a humanitarian crisis. at the same time, i strongly support the operational objectives and evaluation indicators set by the commission and the definition of the whole regulatory apparatus for volunteers.
in writing. - i found the striffler report to be acceptable and without any particular criticisms. that is why i voted for it.
in writing. - it is significant that while the united states has had a volunteer corps since the kennedy presidency, it is only now that the eu is laying the foundations for a similar initiative. i consider this to be a further sign of progress on the road to integration and therefore i vote in favour. in addition to the eu's primacy in humanitarian aid, it should be remembered that humanitarian aid is today a major foreign policy instrument, comparable in importance to the right of intervention theorised at the time of the balkan crises. it is a paradox to find in countries such as ukraine american volunteers or volunteers from individual member states, but not volunteers from the european union as such. the time has come to give political and institutional value to the financial commitment and the culture of volunteering, which is very developed and widespread in europe, in relation to the shared value of solidarity and subsidiarity. but in this - i want to be very clear - we will have to be very strict in eliminating redundancy, excessive spending and miscoordination of investment between member states, even at the cost of offending certain sensitivities and questioning established policies in the traditional 'areas of influence', in order to adopt a genuine european strategy aimed at leveraging goodwill in the context of security and neighbourhood policies.
in writing. - i believe that the establishment of a european voluntary humanitarian aid corps represents an exciting challenge for the european union and that its regulation is a necessary step to make it more effective in the various theatres of global crises it will face. i would like to stress the issue of volunteer safety: i therefore agree with the rapporteur's request that volunteers should not be sent to places where there are armed conflicts or internal disturbances. i also agree with the request for adequate financial resources for this project: we must not forget that the european union provides about 50 per cent of the world's humanitarian aid. i think that the commission should be able to take account of the fact that the european parliament has already been consulted on this matter. the commission has already proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european voluntary service. for these reasons, i vote in favour.
in writing. - the number, scale and complexity of humanitarian crises around the world have increased considerably over the years, resulting in an increasing demand for humanitarian workers. the deployment of eu volunteers addresses the real needs expressed at local level by the host organisations and provides real added value to the host organisations and local communities. solidarity is one of the most beautiful values and i cannot but applaud the daily work of volunteers engaged in humanitarian missions. i therefore think it is appropriate that their role be clearly defined.
in writing. - we welcome the commission's proposal to establish the european voluntary humanitarian aid corps, as provided for in article 214 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, with the task of expressing the union's humanitarian values and solidarity towards people in need. we are confident that this corps will contribute to enhancing the union's response capacity to humanitarian crises and to strengthening the capacity and resilience of vulnerable or disaster-affected communities in third countries. solidarity is a fundamental value of the union and volunteering is a concrete and visible expression of this solidarity. the volunteer candidates will be identified and selected on the basis of specific skills and know-how. the identification and selection will have to respect a diversity of profiles and skills among young people and experts, in response to concrete needs. the training programme developed by the european commission will have to be based on existing standards and in partnership with specialised institutions in all member states.
in writing. - the establishment of a european voluntary humanitarian aid corps can make an important contribution to the response to humanitarian distress and to the management of emergencies arising from natural disasters, both within the borders of the european territory and in non-european territory. the current emergency management system can certainly be improved by a homogeneous and coordinated action that leverages the unification of the different energies of the european countries. i hope that the organisation of the european voluntary corps will be able to take as an example the excellent systems already in place in some member states, including italy, where they are immediate and efficient, especially in the management of emergencies following natural disasters. the creation of the european voluntary corps should be characterised by strong humanitarian values and the principle of solidarity, which is a fundamental value of the union and which can be reflected in the persons who are involved in volunteering missions. only by involving the best organisations in the eu can we start the process of training volunteers and give them the recognition they deserve in the professions.
in writing. - the text just adopted establishes the european voluntary humanitarian aid corps (eu aid volunteers). the european charter of human rights, in line with the new treaty on european union, encourages european citizens and authorities to take the ideals of solidarity and respect for human life beyond the geographical borders of the eu. the european humanitarian aid corps will facilitate eu intervention in international humanitarian crises by making the work of european volunteers and institutions more visible and effective.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing the european voluntary humanitarian aid corps 'eu aid volunteers'. solidarity is a fundamental value of the union and volunteering is a concrete and visible expression of that solidarity. the union must therefore ensure adequate humanitarian aid in the face of the increase in the number and scale of humanitarian crises. for these reasons, the commission and the european parliament have allocated eur 210 million over the period 2014-2020 for the establishment of a european voluntary humanitarian aid corps (evhac). the objective of this volunteer corps is to strengthen the union's capacity to respond to humanitarian crises and to develop a general framework of rules and procedures for the creation of a network of humanitarian aid volunteers who are sufficiently trained and qualified and whose safety is ensured at the highest level.
in writing. - the purpose of this proposal is to express the union's humanitarian values and solidarity towards populations in need, through the promotion of an effective and visible european voluntary humanitarian aid corps, which will contribute to improving the union's response capacity to humanitarian crises and to strengthening the capacity and resilience of vulnerable or disaster-stricken communities in third countries. moreover, its establishment would fill the gaps in current humanitarian volunteering, while also helping to raise public awareness of european citizenship issues. i therefore voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - the european voluntary humanitarian aid corps must be able to express the union's humanitarian values and solidarity towards populations in need, acting effectively and with visibility, and contributing to improving the union's response capacity to humanitarian crises. in particular, the ability to respond quickly to vulnerable or disaster-stricken communities is exponentially increased, and this is precisely the direction we must insist on.
in writing. - the establishment of the european voluntary humanitarian aid corps is an expression of the union's commitment to humanitarian values and solidarity with people in need. its establishment would make it possible to fill the gaps in current humanitarian volunteering. this body should be used during humanitarian aid operations in third countries, but i agree with the rapporteur in the proposal to explicitly exclude the contexts of armed conflict and internal unrest, in order to guarantee the safety of volunteers. as regards the indicators for measuring operational objectives, it is necessary to establish qualitative criteria as well as quantitative ones in order to ensure that humanitarian contribution is effective and measurable. on the administrative burden, i agree with the rapporteur that the commission should develop a simple system of certification mechanisms, seeking synergies in particular with existing partnership instruments and humanitarian standards. volunteers should also be identified, selected and trained in an efficient manner, with clear and timely rules, according to the assessment of specific skills and know-how, diversified for young and experienced profiles, and employed according to the specific needs of the different situations in which they operate.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mrs striffler on the establishment of a european voluntary humanitarian aid corps. the purpose of this appropriation is to express the union's humanitarian values and solidarity towards people in need by providing effective and visible aid that contributes to improving the union's response to humanitarian crises and to strengthening the capacities of vulnerable or disaster-stricken communities in third countries.
i would like to stress the importance of today's act, the approval of the european fund for aid to the poor, an important act which marks the need on the part of the european union to address a poverty which, also on our continent, is becoming increasingly evident. the new fund provides for the continuation of community support for the provision of food aid, but it has also had to supplement this with basic consumer goods such as clothing, footwear or personal hygiene products, as well as social inclusion measures. the increase in this appropriation for the implementation of the fund is eur 3.5 billion, compared with the previous eur 2.5 billion, and it is envisaged to strengthen the principles of partnership at all stages of the programme. what i think is very important is to involve all the charitable organizations and ngos active in the social field who will have to fully monitor and activate for this to happen. it is an important act and this report is a strong signal of the european union's support for the millions of its citizens who are at risk of poverty or social exclusion today and who are in a state of severe need.
the spread of poverty in europe is a matter of concern, especially when children and adolescents are the victims. in italy, for example, food poverty is increasing: in fact, there are about 4 million people in extreme difficulty, including 400,000 children who suffer from hunger. the european parliament has greatly improved the commission's initial proposal, and has now approved a budget of eur 3.5 billion. i hope that the aid from the fund will be of practical help to the many people who are now paying in critical conditions and will provide widespread and constant support to all the institutions that are trying every day to tackle the most extreme poverty. i also support the rapporteur's proposal to combat food waste along the whole food chain, which amounts to about 190 kg per year per european citizen.
the european fund for the poor is one of the most important instruments of european solidarity, first and foremost for those individuals and families living in poverty - of course, mr angelilli recalled the numbers in italy - and food and material deprivation, as well as for those associations and organisations which manage the actual implementation of aid in the various territories of the union. parliament has certainly improved the commission's proposal, but it would have been even more necessary, in this period of deep economic crisis, to strengthen the fund and to provide it with greater financial resources, given that it is already able to cover only a minority of the population groups who would need help. however, the instrument itself is very positive and that is why i supported the report, despite the lack of elements because of the limited funds available.
the adoption of this regulation on the european fund for aid to the most deprived is first and foremost a due act. the fact that in recent months some states have questioned this instrument does not help to strengthen the idea of europe as a place of cooperation and solidarity between peoples. i do not think there is much to be said about the shortsightedness of those who do not see the suffering of millions of people who, during these years of crisis, have been rapidly sliding from a state of relative prosperity into a state of poverty. so these funds are in many cases the only chance of survival for millions of people. that is why the three and a half billion over seven years represents a real opportunity for millions of people and, thanks to the work of thousands of voluntary associations, we are able to promote an idea of europe which is not just budgetary discipline and austerity but something else as well.
when we voted in this house on the europe 2020 strategy, we set ourselves the target of reducing by at least 20 million the number of people at risk of poverty or social exclusion by 2020. today, with this regulation, we are making available a sum of two and a half billion, which goes directly to the poor and to families in need in the member states. to this sum must be added eur 1 billion which is allocated specifically by the social fund, although it must be remembered that this fund is directly intended for the activation of the labour market. it goes without saying that these are limited resources, which is certainly not a sufficient fund. it is a signal, however, because the commission's proposal is to be welcomed because the fund will continue to contribute directly to the eradication of a number of poverty cases.
in writing. - i fully support the creation of this regulation because, as the economic crisis is exacerbating poverty and social exclusion across the union, we must take tangible actions to alleviate the needs of the most deprived persons. in fact the aim of this fund is to establish a new, broader instrument, able to relieve the most severe forms of poverty such as food and material impoverishment. although the budget for the fund is still far from being enough, nonetheless it does have the potential to play an important role ensuring the predictability of the support, which is essential for the charities and civil society organisations. i also believe that it is important to stress that this kind of fund should remain a complement to national policies, as the obligation to combat and eliminate poverty remains the responsibility of member states.
in writing. - the european union, in the framework of the europe 2020 strategy, has set itself the objective of reducing by at least 20 million the number of people at risk of poverty or social exclusion by 2020. according to the data, in 2011, almost 120 million european citizens including over 25 million children were at risk of poverty or social exclusion, or about a quarter of the total population. in the light of the foregoing, i welcome the commission's proposal to set up a european fund for aid to the poor, although the resources proposed for this fund are very limited and not sufficient to cover real needs. it is estimated that this would benefit two million people each year across the union. in my view, the support provided by this specific fund should not be seen as an attempt to replace the overall policies needed to help reduce poverty: this remains a challenge for both the union and the member states. however, i believe that this new initiative is necessary and fully justified in the current historical context of increasing levels of poverty and social exclusion throughout the union, especially with regard to the reality of childhood.
in writing. - the europe 2020 strategy aims to reduce by at least 20 million the number of people at risk of poverty or social exclusion by 2020. in the face of an economic and financial crisis that has seriously damaged the national economies of the eu and, above all, in the face of a recovery that is slow to take effect, the number of people at risk of poverty or social exclusion is continuing to increase. i have decided to vote in favour of this report because the programme for the poor (mdp) has so far made a great contribution by enabling the member states to provide some assistance to the poor. the mdp is essential in the fight against poverty and social exclusion, in addition to other small-scale projects. however, with the reduction in intervention stocks in recent years, it will be discontinued at the end of 2013 and will not be replaced by any alternative programme. we cannot afford not to find a second option because the esf is not sufficient to avoid material deprivation and to meet the needs of those people who cannot adequately access basic resources.
in writing. - although i find many positive points in the text, i do not agree with the proposals contained in the costello report. the management of aid for the poor is already being effectively implemented by the individual member states and i do not agree with the commission's intention to centralize this type of activity. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's resources are used in a proper manner. i therefore decided to abstain.
in writing. - according to a eurobarometer survey, the fight against poverty is considered by european citizens to be the most important challenge to be faced, after unemployment. i therefore welcome the efforts made by the european commission and parliament to establish, as from 2014, a european fund for aid to the most deprived. i share the call for integration between this new fund and the long-term projects created by individual member states, and i encourage cooperation with the ngos that will be involved. with agenda 2020, we set ourselves a total reduction of 20 million people at risk of poverty and social exclusion by 2020, but the economic crisis we are experiencing is dramatically testing european families day by day. i believe, however, that this objective must be pursued with determination and that the establishment of the fund should be geared to this. i appreciate the reference to women and children as members of society who need to be protected more and i believe that the establishment of the fund can also bring hope to the homeless and to families with children who are in conditions of material deprivation.
in writing. - the content of the report concerns the establishment of a european aid fund for the poor for the period 2014-2020. i decided to abstain because, although the text contains aid to those in need, the proposal is not sufficiently satisfactory. on the contrary, i believe that the poor cannot benefit more from this type of action if it is dealt with at community level.
in writing. - respect for human dignity and solidarity are founding values of the european union. my family has always taught me to help those who can't. it is a moral duty we cannot evade. we therefore turn direct aid to the weakest groups, i am thinking for example of children, while for the rest of the people in difficulty we need to draw up a plan which links direct assistance with inclusive and operational reintegration policies.
in writing. - the economic and financial crisis of recent years has led to an increase in the number of european citizens at risk of poverty. this is a phenomenon that is affecting more and more families, with inevitable repercussions for their children, who as a result of these situations cannot benefit from the resources necessary to grow up in a healthy and peaceful way. many citizens live in poverty, unable to afford basic necessities and specialist medical visits, with negative effects on their health. the fight against poverty is one of the eu's most difficult challenges and i voted in favour of a new fund for european aid to the poor, even though i believe it should be increased. the crisis has weakened the capacity of many states to take effective measures to reduce 'poverty' and promote social inclusion. i believe that the eu must make every effort to ensure that there is no shortage of support and measures to ensure that aid programmes work. i believe that a constant commitment by the member states, which must strive to promote domestic initiatives, to support and protect all the associations which provide aid on a daily basis and which are committed to fighting poverty, is essential.
in writing. - a 2011 survey shows that in the european union more than 25 million children are at risk of poverty and social exclusion, that almost six million of them do not have new clothes and that about five million do not even have a pair of shoes of the right size. all this should make us reflect, because it seems that we have gone back decades to situations that we hoped to have overcome on our continent. the crisis is dramatic and the most vulnerable suffer as always, such as children, who have to grow up in worse conditions than their parents. i think that is unacceptable, because we are in a state of social regression rather than progress. in recent years the number of those who do not even have a roof to shelter under has also increased dramatically, and the lines at the soup kitchens for the needy continue to grow. none of us have the magic wand, but sometimes i wonder if we're capable of understanding people's needs. the european union is thinking about the relationship between deficit and gdp, which must be respected, while we are changing governments for personal reasons. life and reality are different.
in writing. - i shall vote in favour of the report on the proposal for a european parliament and council regulation on the european fund for aid to the most deprived. according to some statistics, in 2011, a quarter of the total european population was at risk of poverty or social exclusion. to date, more than 40 million people live in conditions of severe material deprivation; 43 million europeans cannot afford a meal of meat, poultry or fish every other day and in 2009 the number of homeless people in the union as a whole was 4.1 million. in the face of these chilling figures, the european union has set itself the target of reducing by at least 20 million the number of people at risk of poverty or social exclusion by 2020 as part of the europe 2020 strategy. the fund proposed in this report is therefore an important instrument for addressing the problems of food deprivation, for providing material support in the form of non-food items for homeless people and/or children, and for providing an accompanying measure for the social reintegration of people in need of assistance.
in writing. - under the europe 2020 strategy, the european union has set itself the target of reducing by at least 20 million the number of people at risk of poverty or social exclusion by 2020. the economic and financial crisis is, however, exacerbating poverty and social exclusion across the union. in view of this and in view of the fact that the establishment of the fund in question would either directly address the needy or families in the member states whose need for assistance is recognised by the national authorities or by partner organisations, or indirectly through the provision of food and goods to the homeless or children, i voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - by allocating 3.5 billion for the next six years, the european parliament has sought to make a concrete contribution to the fight against one of the most serious phenomena of recent years, which has so far affected almost 120 million people throughout europe. the money will be used to directly assist the poor and less needy families through the provision of food and basic necessities. those who have lost their homes and are currently homeless will be allocated to social housing and priority will be given to families with children.
in writing. - the reduction of at least 20 million people at risk of poverty or social exclusion in europe is a key objective of the 2020 strategy. it is important to emphasise that the support provided by the fund in question should not be seen as an alternative instrument to the overall european policies, but rather as additional support, also because the resources proposed are very limited and far from being sufficient to help some two million people each year throughout the union. in general, however, this is a good idea and should be welcomed, as it could play a major role in improving the lives of people on the margins of society.
in writing. - i think the proposal to amend the regulation on biocidal products is appropriate. these are found in many consumer products, from household disinfectants to insecticides, from antibacterial detergents to disinfectants. the use of these products is massive and it is sometimes forgotten that these are substances which are at least irritating or sensitizing. although the use of biocides is intended to ensure human well-being and the preservation of many products, the chemicals they contain can have harmful effects on the environment and human health. i therefore support the adoption of this amendment to make the necessary corrections and clarifications where technical errors and unintended consequences have been identified in the regulation.
in writing. - the report on biocidal products is part of the framework of regulation (eu) no 528/2012 on the making available on the market and use of biocidal products. this is important legislation, the result of a review of existing legislation on biocides to regulate their placing on the market and use. the aim is therefore to harmonise national provisions on biocides while maintaining a high level of protection for human and animal health and safeguarding the environment. in line with the rapporteur's position, i voted in favour of this report because i think it is wrong to reopen certain political issues on which agreement had already been reached during the negotiation of the original regulation. i therefore welcome the amendments contained in this report.
in writing. - the groote report makes a number of technical corrections to the transitional provisions of regulation (eu) no 528/2012. the text is balanced and acceptable and i therefore intend to support it with my vote.
in writing. - i shall certainly vote in favour of the report. the coordinated text, which contains the amendments adopted, addresses not only problems of regulatory alignment and the need for declarations, but also, more generally, issues which make industry vulnerable to the exploitation of legitimate consumer concerns, if not to a genuine irresponsible scandal, which is liable to alter the physiological dynamics of the market and to damage important sectors of the chemical sector. this process is likely to undermine the european primacy in this area, also and above all in terms of consumer protection, which is horizontal across the most diverse sectors, primarily agri-food. for this very reason, it would seem to me, among other things, to be completely unreasonable that the prerogatives of the forum set up under the reach package should not include the area of biocides, which, like other areas, is rapidly affected by technological developments and the consequent demand for regulation. i therefore support the text as amended, inter alia, by the amendments adopted in nos 3, 8, 13, 17 and related amendments, which reflect the need for further clarification expressed by the commission and some member states.
in writing. - i believe that the eu must become a full-fledged guarantor of human health through strong legislation aimed at ensuring the best possible protection; a clear example of this is regulation no 528 of may 2012 regulating the making available on the market and use of biocidal products that have the potential to be harmful to human health. the legislator wanted to make a thorough revision of the existing legislation in order to harmonize the existing rules, but unfortunately several technical errors were found in it, which made a correction necessary. i therefore voted in favour of this measure to amend the regulation, particularly as regards the meaning of certain terms used in it, but also in order to ensure consistency with the classification and labelling rules and to make the necessary corrections; i think that every single detail in this area should not be overlooked, since many of the household cleaning products we use, such as disinfectants and insecticides, contain biocides in them, so proper information is necessary to safeguard the health of the users.
in writing. - the report concerns the amendment of regulation (eu) no 528/2012 to correct a number of technical errors and undesirable consequences, relating to the making available on the market and use of biocidal products for the determination of market access conditions. given the technical and necessary nature of the content, i vote in favour.
in writing. - the biocidal products regulation has been an important and substantial revision of existing legislation on biocidal products by harmonising the rules on their making available on the market and use, while ensuring a high level of protection of human and animal health and the environment. in view of this and aware of the importance of remedying certain technical errors and undesirable consequences in the transitional provisions contained in articles 94 and 95, i voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - immediate action is needed to correct some aspects of the existing legislation on biocides which has been in force since last year. without going back to the political terms which led to its adoption, a few technical amendments to the regulation will suffice to provide better protection for all operators in the sector.
in writing. - regulation (eu) no 528/2012 concerning the making available on the market and use of biocidal products has been the source of some technical errors identified by the commission, in particular with regard to the transitional provisions of articles 94 and 95. in order to ensure the legal certainty that has been lost, especially for the sake of industry and the public, the commission's proposal must be supported without reopening the political issues, on which agreement was already reached in the review two years ago.
as regional councillor in sardinia, i had the honour and opportunity to draft and bring to pass the law for the protection of women victims of violence and their children, but i also had the opportunity to see that a regional law alone is not enough and that the regions alone cannot cope with a phenomenon whose scale shows no sign of diminishing. the figures for femicide, sexual abuse, domestic violence, trafficking and stalking reported in this report are chilling. this requires a concerted and coordinated effort by europe, the member states and the regions. how long, i wonder, must we wait for all the member states to ratify the istanbul convention? i thank mrs parvanova because this report points the way forward, including the essential need for all member states to define all these offences in a clear and unambiguous way and for what they are: gender-based violence. we need a european plan and national plans as well as adequate and sustained resources to combat violence against women. this one needs to be circled, because the numbers tell us it's a war: a war of too many, too many men against women.
the data on violence against women is truly chilling and unfortunately it is not decreasing, it is always the same. we need a breakthrough, we need a directive setting out effective, strict and dissuasive rules and sanctions, valid throughout the european territory, with a strategy also for supporting victims. but what is needed is a genuine cultural revolution, backed up by an action plan aimed at information and prevention, especially for young people. i take this debate as an opportunity to remember this girl: she's an italian girl, her name is lucia annibali, she's a very good lawyer, she's about 36 years old. well, she was scarred. the trial is currently underway: her ex-boyfriend was looking at 20 years for aggravated assault and attempted murder. it's time to say enough!
in writing. - in europe, about 20 to 25 per cent of women have been physically abused at least once in their lives. the main problem is that there is currently no legislation in the union establishing measures to promote and support action by member states in the field of preventing violence against women, nor a comprehensive strategy to combat this type of violence. i therefore share the rapporteur's reasoning that there is a need for legislation to promote and support action by member states in the field of violence against women. in particular, the phenomenon of female genital mutilation is internationally recognised as a violation of the human rights of girls and women. i fully support the rapporteur's call on the commission to come up with an action plan on female genital mutilation that addresses issues such as prevention and protection; it is also necessary to develop a common union policy for women and girls seeking asylum on the basis of genital mutilation, in accordance with international standards. in order to raise awareness among citizens, i agree with the rapporteur in calling for the proclamation of a 'european year for the elimination of violence against women'.
in writing. - the report we approved as the epp aims to encourage the adoption of an eu legislative act to support the member states in preventing violence against women. these phenomena are not only deplorable but also constitute a serious violation of the inalienable rights of the human being and a form of discrimination on grounds of sex. beyond equal opportunities and the need to guarantee women full access to political, economic, social, etc. life, it is essential to promote strong action at national level: violence against women has a series of long-lasting physical and psychological consequences and traumas which are all too often difficult to eliminate completely. the eu should not only adopt legislation, in this case a regulation (binding and directly applicable to all member states), but also develop and adopt a strong and comprehensive strategy to combat such violence. in the face of continuing phenomena of discrimination and violence against women, strong legislation on this serious social scourge is essential in order to harmonise national provisions and align member states in order to create a common front to fight violence against women.
in writing. - i do not share the views expressed in the parvanova report and therefore voted against it.
in writing. - i shall vote in favour of the report's text, although i have reservations about certain points in the preamble which i consider to be weakly reasoned or not entirely agreeable. it is, however, a clear fact that our time is marked by an increase in violence against women, as a result of the emergence of criminal behaviour that tended to escape denunciation and, on the other hand, of the tensions that run through our society, not least those given by the creeping introduction of separate legal regimes in some systems. there is also the violence against women brought about by the effects of the crisis, which produces a cultural backwardness in terms of expulsion from the labour market and, inevitably, a reduction in levels of education and training. i am very concerned about the responses in terms of the development of new cases, such as "femicide", which threaten the fundamental principles of equality before the law at the legal level and lead to a trivialization of other crimes against the person at the cultural level. i therefore support the report which rightly insists on a preventive cultural strategy, starting with schools, and recovering a role in citizenship education which is sometimes weakened precisely at a time when the new generations are in greater need of essential values.
in writing. - as a woman, i find it shocking to hear almost daily from the newspapers and the media about incidents of violence against women. the costs of such violence in the eu in 2011 had an impact of €228 billion, but they are far below the costs in terms of the psychological and physical trauma of the victims. unfortunately, there are currently no laws or strategies at community level to promote and support action by member states in preventing violence against women. i therefore voted in favour of the provision for the creation of this ad hoc and harmonised regulatory framework by the union with the specific aim of combating this 'crime'. this instrument will be able to benefit in the first instance from cooperation between member states in the prevention phase; in addition, the use of 'bridge clauses' will mean that some specific areas will be covered by other existing legislation, given the cross-border dimension this phenomenon has taken. the eu must be the main promoter of violence prevention, and set a positive example through the proposal to ratify the 2011 istanbul convention, which italy ratified in 2013 and which is currently the most comprehensive legal instrument on the subject.
in writing. - violence against women is a flagrant violation of human rights. eu legislation is therefore essential to promote and support action by states in this area. there is no common interpretation, definition and regime in national legislation on the issue of violence against women. to prevent violence and protect victims, a minimum level of harmonisation at eu level will be needed, at least as regards a common and comprehensive view of the phenomenon. this phenomenon has a cross-border dimension and must be tackled at community level. we therefore believe that it is necessary to adopt common minimum standards and definitions, and to take joint action to combat violence against women and to ensure that more than half the eu population fully enjoys the right to free movement. action by member states will need to be promoted and supported by collecting and exchanging information, training the officials involved, exchanging experience and good practice, raising awareness and providing funding. the european union must therefore become the leading international promoter of the prevention of gender-based violence and set a positive example for those worldwide who are fighting to eradicate violence against women and gender discrimination.
in writing. - women, everywhere in the world, are subjected to daily abuse and violence with devastating physical and psychological consequences. women often have to do more than men in every field to protect their rights and are heavily discriminated against in their participation in economic, social, political and cultural life, as well as being underrepresented in decision-making processes. i voted in favour of mrs parvanova's report on combating violence against women because it contains important references to ensure greater protection for women. we call on the european commission to present, by the end of 2014, a legislative proposal setting out fair and effective measures to promote and support member states' actions in preventing and combating violence. we also call for the unanimous adoption by the council of a bridge clause to include gender-based violence as a criminal area to be listed in article 83 tfeu. i believe that all the member states of the european union must continue to defend women and their rights, which are trampled on every day in the world. i hope that the eu can become the main promoter of the prevention of violence against women on the international stage and serve as a positive example for those who continuously fight against gender discrimination.
in writing. - women who are victims of violence suffer physical, emotional and psychological damage every day. too often, family, government and society are deaf to their pain and fail to provide the support they need to aspire to a better life. in an eu founded on the indivisible and universal values of human dignity, freedom, equality and solidarity, where equality between men and women and protection against all forms of discrimination are being worked for, this is unacceptable. women must be able to enjoy their right to well-being, freedom and life. the resolution calls on the commission to present a european action plan and to provide measures to support member states in preventing and combating violence against women, through helplines, specialised shelters and awareness campaigns. recognising the need to combat the problem on a common basis, the possibility of including violence against women in the list of crimes set out in article 83 tfeu was considered, in order to combat violent and sexist behaviour and to assist victims to make them more aware of their right not to deserve violence under any circumstances.
in writing. - almost every day we unfortunately hear news of some news event involving violence against women and often these are horrifying incidents. the case of the woman in pesaro who was scratched with acid last year by two albanians on the orders of her ex-boyfriend, whose trial is being celebrated these days, is emblematic: the prosecutor's office has asked for 20 years in prison for this man, so cowardly that he didn't even have the "courage" to commit this insane and shameful act himself. i don't know if 20 years is enough to make up for a ruined life, but in any case i hope that this individual can never enjoy any leave, discount or benefit, because he deserves nothing but the contempt of us all. unfortunately, only the most egregious incidents are often brought to light, but violence against women often remains in the shadows, behind the walls of the home or because of the fear and shame of exposing it publicly. we need strict rules, which in fact could and should be called fair, because we are dealing with one of the most heinous crimes that a man can commit.
in writing. - i shall vote in favour of the report with recommendations to the commission on combating violence against women. violence against women is a flagrant violation of human rights, a major cause of gender inequality and an obstacle to women's full participation in economic, social, political and cultural life. some 20 to 25 per cent of women in europe have experienced physical violence at least once in their adult lives and more than 10 per cent have experienced sexual violence involving force; 12 to 15 per cent are victims of domestic violence, which kills seven women a day in the european union. the european union cannot remain silent in the face of these facts, but must become the leading international promoter of the prevention of gender-based violence and serve as a positive example for those worldwide who are fighting for the eradication of violence against women and against gender discrimination. for these reasons, i am convinced that this legislative act is a useful instrument to promote and support action by member states to prevent this serious form of violence.
in writing. - violence against women is a flagrant violation of human rights and a form of gender discrimination and is the main cause of gender inequality, as it is an obstacle to women's full participation in economic, social, political and cultural life. furthermore, there is currently no eu legislation setting out measures to promote and support action by member states in the field of prevention of violence against women, nor is there a comprehensive strategy to combat this type of violence. sooner or later, a minimum level of harmonisation at eu level will have to be ensured, at least as regards a common and comprehensive view of the phenomenon. i therefore voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - today's initiative is intended to shake consciences once again and draw attention to this brutal phenomenon which, unfortunately, remains dramatically current. until all forms of violence against women are completely eliminated, we can never say that we have a fully democratic modern society. in order to eliminate all forms of violence against women, we must first of all work to ensure that the female figure is respected and protected in society and not considered, as is too often the case, as an object.
in writing. - considering that 20-25% of women in europe have experienced physical violence at least once in their adult lives and that over 10% have experienced sexual violence involving force, while 45% of women have experienced some form of violence and 12-15% of women in europe are victims of domestic violence (causing seven women to die in the european union every day), violence against women is an issue to be addressed as a human rights violation with a cross-border dimension, to be addressed at union level. the lack of homologation in the collection of data on violence is a first problem to be addressed and i agree with the rapporteur on the need for eu legislation defining a coherent system for the collection of statistical data on violence against women in the member states. a terribly topical issue is female genital mutilation, on which the rapporteur has my full support in asking the european commission to propose an eu action plan. it is also desirable that the member states which have not yet ratified the istanbul convention should prepare to do so, and also to push for the eu to accede to it. finally, i support the proposal to extend the powers of the eige.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mrs parvanova's report because i am convinced that the european union has the means to become the main international promoter of the prevention of gender-based violence and to serve as a positive example for those who are fighting, especially in certain areas of the world, for the eradication of violence against women and against sexual discrimination.
in writing. - the report is technical in nature and sets out guidelines for deciding when a 'delegated act' or an 'implementing act' is present. it is not critical and i therefore intend to support it with my vote.
in writing. - i am in favour of this report, which has seen the collaboration of several parliamentary committees, aimed at emphasizing the fundamental role of parliament in the democratic legislative function, also in favour of greater transparency and openness to dialogue during all stages of the legislative process, with the ultimate aim of ensuring an ever greater representation of european citizens within the community institutions and in the performance of their functions. i therefore join the call to the commission to ensure greater cooperation between the two bodies and to call for a limited and responsible use of delegated and implementing acts, in compliance with the requirements of the treaty.
in writing. - the delegation in question is a delicate operation by which the commission is entrusted with the exercise of a power which is inherent in the legislator's role. the proper application of the treaty should therefore be ensured in order to ensure a sufficient level of democratic legitimacy also for delegated acts. in view of this and in view of the fact that the starting point in considering the question of delegation must always be the freedom of the legislator and that, according to settled case-law, the adoption of the essential rules for the matter in question is reserved to the legislator, i voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - parliament's expectations regarding the application of articles 290 and 291 tfeu were partly disappointed. the report seeks to shed light on the main outstanding issues, mainly related to the choice between delegated and implementing acts, which creates many difficulties in the negotiations with the commission, and to the issues relating to the preparation and adoption of delegated acts and draft implementing acts, especially with regard to parliament's powers of scrutiny. i therefore support the rapporteur's efforts to consolidate the administrative and political work carried out in recent years within the eu institutions on delegated and implementing acts, with a view to the revision of the 2003 interinstitutional agreement on better law-making.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr szájer's report, which aims to consolidate the work done over the last four years within the eu institutions, in particular with regard to the co-legislators and the commission, on matters concerning delegated and implementing acts and to pave the way for the handling of these matters in the context of the forthcoming review of the 2003 better law-making agreement.
the economic recovery in the european union is still fragile, and access to credit and red tape, particularly for smes, remain very strong barriers. the recovery of the finances - we also stressed this morning - cannot go against growth. the real economic conditions and the impact on future generations therefore require careful attention. we need a strong combination of responsibility but also solidarity, and it is also important to review the troika system by ensuring proper accountability and democratic legitimacy. finally, as i have repeatedly suggested in my amendments and questions, we must introduce the possibility of separating public productive investment from the stability pact, precisely in order to enable local authorities in particular to carry out concrete measures for the territory.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it is urgent that public finances be restored to a sound condition in order to achieve an economic recovery which is taking a long time to produce its effects. while some substantial improvements have been noted, member states need to ensure that they are moving within the eu's economic governance and that they are making greater efforts to foster sustainable growth and create more jobs in both the medium and long term. the commission, following the guidelines also set out by the ecb, has a crucial role to play in recommending to the member states the procedural arrangements for implementing the structural reforms needed to restart national economies in a balanced and sustainable way, generate employment and increase the eu's competitiveness and economic stability. in the face of a crisis of difficult absorption and of worrying public and private indebtedness in the euro area member states, it is desirable to adopt a legislative act which defines 'convergence guidelines' and which also acts as a guide for the implementation of political and economic reforms in individual member states. it should also be borne in mind that recovery will only be possible if it is accompanied by substantial improvements in all areas, including social security, taxation and health.
in writing. - the de backer report is part of the european semester mechanism, the ultimate aim of which is to give the eu ever greater control over the budgets of the member states. that is why i did not intend to support it with my vote.
in writing. - i vote in favour of the report, with particular reference to paragraphs 3 (the role of the ecb), 5 and 7 (eu competitiveness strategies) and 8 (new binding instruments of the european union, the eib's greater role in financing the real economy). i would particularly like to stress the points made in paragraph 16. today we can discuss again those policies of reorganization which have shown depressing effects, because of the heterogeneity of their aims, damaging also to tax revenues and therefore to their very reason for being. taxation of labour and low incomes in some countries is at such levels as to constitute a permanent handicap to aggregate domestic demand and an incentive to underground growth. i would add that recent labour market regulations (such as the fornero reform in italy) are going in the direction of rigidity, making it difficult for companies to invest even if they have kept up with the fall in orders and the credit crunch. finally, the suggestion of shifting taxation quotas from individuals and labour to consumption is welcome, in order to promote a culture of fiscal responsibility and to discourage governments from dumping waste and unjustified spending on general taxation.
in writing. - i voted in favour because with the epp we have succeeded in achieving a balanced report, supporting important structural reforms as well as sustainable budgetary policies. the proposal provides for a general push towards greater competitiveness, including through improved financing opportunities for smes. the report recalls that a necessary condition for the success of financial assistance programmes is a combination of solidarity and conditionality as well as a commitment to reform and innovative activities. the proposal also stresses the need to pursue structural reforms to encourage long-term investment and combat tax evasion, and to make financing opportunities conditional on major reforms. finally, the report highlights and criticises the alarming lack of progress in completing the european single market.
in writing. - this report is one of the necessary steps to be taken in preparation for the european semester. in previous editions, it has been used as a political manifesto to assert the views of the rotating majority within parliament. this time the rapporteur has managed to maintain balance and tact and has set out principles which are fully shared by the major political forces. i particularly appreciated the emphasis on the need for reforms, because i thought about the italian situation, the few major reforms that have been carried out in the last two and a half years and the results. unfortunately, macroeconomics is not everything, and those who govern must also take into account the individual situation of citizens. of course, it's better to have no debts than to have debts. however, the cure must lead to healing and not to suffocation.
in writing. - the report on the european semester for the coordination of economic policies on the annual growth analysis. it is intended to analyse the european economic situation and the measures taken by the eu to deal with it. the text contains a part, which i do not share, in which it is stated that the lack of a policy for integrating immigrants into the labour market is holding back the growth of the union. i therefore vote against.
in writing. - economic recovery in the eu is under way, but still weak. the commission also found that the union industry's sales volume and market share developed over the period considered as follows: the commission should take on the task of presenting new proposals on the role that the eu budget can play in stimulating growth and jobs, in order to achieve the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. the report on economic policy coordination encourages the adoption of structural reform programmes that promote convergence and competitiveness and that increase sustainable growth and employment, including through increased investment in research and education, innovation and development, at national and european level. the report also highlights that access to credit, particularly for smes, is one of the main obstacles to growth in the eu, and points to the need to further reduce red tape for these businesses, which form the backbone of the economy in many member states.
in writing. - the european semester for the coordination of economic policies: the 2014 annual growth survey confirms the five priority actions already identified last year: fiscal consolidation in favour of growth, restoration of the normal functioning of the credit market, promotion of growth and competitiveness, combating unemployment and the social consequences of the crisis, modernisation of public administration. despite encouraging signs in all the areas mentioned, such as the reduction of the deficit in the eu, the easing of financial market tensions and signs of improved competitiveness in some member states, the importance of continuing reform action is emphasised, in order to create the conditions for sustainable growth and the revival of employment.
in writing. - the commission's latest forecast, from last autumn, shows a slow return to real gdp growth in the euro area, which is expected to reach 1.1% in 2014, a fall in unemployment and inflation well below 2%. in addition, considering the need for growth-friendly fiscal consolidation and that current efforts must be sustained in order to ensure compliance with the current economic governance framework on the one hand and more sustainable growth and more jobs on the other in the medium and long term, i voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - i support mr de backer's report and regret that the commission has not been able to provide parliament with a comprehensive report on the implementation of the pact for growth and jobs agreed in june 2012. i believe that the new programmes under the new mff must be implemented quickly and effectively, and i join the chorus of those who call on the commission to provide an evaluation framework for the implementation of the new programmes. like many of my colleagues, i believe that the member states' view that the contribution to the union budget is a variable that can be changed as part of their recovery efforts, causing an artificial reduction in the volume of payments available under the eu budget, is wrong. in addition, to meet the economic difficulties of member states, a new eu own resources system for financing the union budget could be very useful, reducing gni-based contributions and allowing member states to carry out recovery efforts without compromising eu funding.
the european union is missing almost all the targets of the europe 2020 strategy. youth unemployment has reached unprecedented levels, with an average of 23%, while in italy it is almost 42%. in 2011, the economic loss associated with youth unemployment was estimated at around eur 153 billion, equivalent to 1,2% of the eu's gdp. if we want real coordination of economic policies and budgetary discipline, then the 3% parameters, like the parameters of the fiscal compact, must be justly flexible. in addition, we must consider investment in education, training, research and innovation as a determinant of economic growth and job creation, especially for young people.
the recovery is very weak and very fragile. the crisis is hard, and it is hard above all for businesses and workers. two qualifying points i feel i can share: a binding call on social and employment indicators and the quality of the labour market. i would add two other equally important points to these two points: the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation of young people, particularly those seeking work, and the importance of social dialogue. now, these are very important strategic objectives: the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information available to the public. i believe that these are the priorities of the 2020 strategy and of this semester, if we are to give greater strength and greater effectiveness to the coordination of europe's economic policies.
the annual growth analysis for 2014 does not differ much from that for 2013. however, the report does offer some suggestions for europe to return to growth without undoing the sacrifices made by austerity and at the same time remedying the democratic deficit in this area which seems to exclude european citizens from participation. the de backer dossier should read in this way the proposal for a convergence partnership between the member states and the institutions of the european union, with the possibility of obtaining conditional financing for the implementation of reform activities, and the proposal for a more robust economic cooperation, which should go hand in hand with a financial mechanism of incentives and with the need to strengthen the democratic accountability of the european parliament and national parliaments with regard to the essential elements of the functioning of the euro area.
in writing. - i did not intend to vote in favour of the gutiérrez prieto report on the european semester for the coordination of economic policies: employment and social aspects, because i am against the eu's interference in national financial affairs through so-called 'macroeconomic coordination'.
in writing. - considering that the recession in the euro area has stopped, but that annual growth will remain weak and that unemployment is still at a very high level, i have chosen to support this report because its aim is to foster sustainable growth capable of giving the necessary impetus to a lasting recovery and to overcoming the union's socioeconomic challenges. the report stresses the need to boost domestic demand and create jobs through productive investment and increased productivity, and calls on the commission and the council to step up investment to support growth in the short term. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. the council also called on the commission to ensure that the member states subject to the excessive deficit procedure have sufficient budgetary room to implement the youth guarantee schemes. finally, it welcomes the recognition in the 2014 annual growth survey of the need to address the social consequences of the crisis and ensure the financial sustainability of social protection.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, in line with the indications of my political group. however, i hesitated until the end because i found the report a little unbalanced and, above all, not sufficiently comprehensive of the different national situations. in fact, since employment and the social aspects of economic policies are the competence of the member states, there is a serious risk that some benefits may be considered as leopard-spotted, making comparisons impossible. the shadow rapporteur of my political group, in the name of compromise, accepted proposals which were very close to the minimum we could accept. in view of the european semester, attention should be paid to employment policies and, above all, to exploiting the levers which allow for synergies within the european market, including the harmonization of education systems which must prepare them to compete in a global market.
in writing. - the report covers the european semester for economic policy coordination, with an annual analysis of growth on employment and social aspects in 2014. it is intended to analyse the social consequences of austerity policies. i have decided to vote against the text because i do not agree with the part which calls on the commission to create job opportunities for the vulnerable groups, including immigrants; i also do not approve of the willingness to intervene in the financial affairs of the states by means of coordinating manoeuvres.
in writing. - europe's main objective in this period of uncertainty is to emerge from the crisis through two key words: growth and development. we must stimulate domestic demand and create quality jobs through productive investment. structural reforms certainly allow us to achieve results in the medium and long term, but action is needed to support growth and job creation, especially in the short term. labour market reforms based on the participation of social partners, public authorities and civil society should therefore be implemented in order to find the best solutions to achieve the objectives set out in the europe 2020 strategy.
in writing. - i welcome the fact that this year, for the first time, the annual growth survey 2014 includes an evaluation framework for employment and social policies, thus helping to strengthen the monitoring of employment and social developments in the context of the european semester. the report highlights the need to reduce poverty and social exclusion, calls for fairer labour taxation systems and stresses the need to create new jobs. particular attention is paid to the fight against youth unemployment. i agree with the rapporteur that the appropriation provided for in the next multiannual financial framework is insufficient to combat this problem and that the commission should increase the resources to be devoted to the youth guarantee. my vote in favour confirms what i said when i voted for the european strategy to combat youth unemployment.
in writing. - this report rightly highlights some facts that are in plain sight, such as the continuing and tragic rise in unemployment, which in europe has reached particularly alarming levels, especially among the younger population. we are also rightly concerned about the continuing cuts in the social sector by the member states, but we forget to stress that these are unfortunately often the consequences of what europe is asking us to do through its measures which focus on blind economic rigor. so we cannot support the decisions taken in brussels and then complain about what the various countries of the european union are doing. in fact, they often find themselves with no choice, crushed by constraints that are as heavy as rocks and impossible to bear in a recession. if we do not change this logic, we shall never hope to have room for concrete measures to combat unemployment and for social incentives, and we shall always be complaining about the continuing cuts, with no prospect of development. we must be less hypocritical and therefore strongly condemn and dismantle the brussels yoke that oppresses us before it is inexorably too late.
in writing. - the european semester for the coordination of economic policies: employment and social aspects focuses on promoting growth and competitiveness, combating unemployment and the social consequences of the crisis, and modernising public administration. the importance of continuing reform efforts should be emphasised in order to create the conditions for sustainable growth and the revival of employment.
in writing. - the euro area recession stopped in the second quarter of 2013 in terms of numbers, but annual growth in the euro area will remain weak this year. unemployment is still very high and sustainable growth needs to be significantly improved if we are to have a lasting recovery that provides the momentum needed to alleviate the union's socioeconomic challenges. given that the social and economic priorities agreed in the europe 2020 strategy are deeply interlinked and that economic sustainability and macroeconomic balance cannot be achieved in the medium and long term without strengthening and safeguarding the social dimension of emu, i voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - i support the report because i welcome the adoption of an evaluation framework for employment and social policies which will help to strengthen the monitoring of employment and social developments as part of the macroeconomic surveillance in the framework of the european semester. the social and economic priorities agreed in the europe 2020 strategy are deeply interlinked and i believe that economic sustainability and macroeconomic balance cannot be achieved without strengthening and safeguarding the social dimension of emu. increasing investment and productivity are two key aspects of the european recovery, which would increase global competitiveness and domestic employment, increasing the well-being and purchasing power of workers. i also agree that the european funds are a key lever available to the member states. the dignity of the worker is a key element of european policies, which require the creation of more adaptable and dynamic labour markets, capable of adapting to the economic situation without resorting to redundancies and excessive wage adjustments. in conclusion, youth unemployment is a matter of grave concern and i agree with the need to adopt measures to promote the integration of young people into the labour market.
in writing. - the annual growth survey analyses the social and economic situation in europe and sets out the union's priorities for the coming year. the report is undoubtedly at a difficult juncture, with tentative signs of recovery in the fight against unemployment and poverty, but the process is only beginning and much remains to be done to boost economic development.
in writing. - the future challenges of food supply and climate change require the development of an effective and competitive plant breeding sector capable of protecting and preserving biological and genetic diversity in europe. it is essential that the eu plays a leading role in developing sustainable plant breeding techniques and in promoting research and practice in the fields of agriculture and plant breeding. i therefore support the motion for a resolution and hope that the commission will be quick to propose concrete and effective measures to enable european breeders and farmers to adapt to future changes in the sector.
in writing. - while i share the objectives of the paulsen report, namely the improvement of agricultural production through plant selection, i found the text to be lacking and contradictory in many respects. that is why i voted against.
in writing. - i welcome this report by the committee on agriculture and rural development on the subject of european plant breeding. the report highlights the challenges we will face in the coming years, linked to the growth of the world population, major climate change, the growth of the food supply and the exploitation of agricultural land. i appreciate the urge and the demands of this report to have a cutting-edge plant breeding industry and to help find a solution to these problems. i believe it is important to preserve and protect the genetic and cultural diversity of plant selection and i think the rapporteur's call for investment in research in this area, for example by continuing to support the work of the svalbard gene bank, is sound. just as genetic diversity must be protected, i believe it is equally right to support another type of plant variety related to plant selection: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. finally, i agree with the rapporteur that the eu must play a leading role in developing sustainable plant breeding techniques and in promoting research and practice in the fields of agriculture and plant breeding.
in writing. - the text concerns the proposed initiative to support and encourage research activities in the field of plant breeding to improve quality and yield. i shall abstain because i find the report unclear on the point of access to food for people living in conditions of hunger and poverty.
in writing. - the committee on agriculture and rural development intends to launch an in-depth debate and inquiry into the general situation of plant breeding in european and global agriculture. this sector is of fundamental importance for productivity, diversity, health and quality in agriculture, horticulture, food and feed production and for the environment. in view of this and considering it essential for the future of europe to work seriously to preserve our genetic heritage, by cultivating and preserving local and regional varieties in order to preserve both genetic and cultural diversity, i voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - the european plant breeding sector must be effective and competitive to withstand global pressure. increased investment in research should be encouraged immediately in order to meet future food needs and to address climate change. the continuing loss of specific plant protection products for minor uses is having a very significant impact on the quality and yields of fruit and vegetables, and is also endangering the production of certain specialised crops. what i would like to stress more than anything else, as described in the report, is that the global plant breeding market is dominated by a small group of multinational companies investing in only a limited number of varieties, whereas in europe there is a highly diversified market comprised of a very large number of smes, which represent a significant share of the sector, which is why the european plant breeding market needs to be further improved with a view to healthy competition. in the rest of the world, large global plant breeding companies have gained a worrying degree of penetration into agriculture and agricultural policy, while the eu is fighting to maintain independent research that is publicly and transparently supported by governments.
in writing. mr president, i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative of putting forward a proposal for a directive on the protection of animals during transport. in particular, consideration is given to ways of increasing yields to feed the growing population with the same amount of agricultural land, with better management of key resources such as water and energy. the report also stresses the importance of research, farming techniques, genetic diversity and all the other factors that affect food production.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think it is right to thank the rapporteurs for their diligence in these very complicated and important matters. our title today is the establishment of a single european railway area. we must not forget that this is the title, as the commissioner rightly said earlier when he spoke of a genuine single market and of going beyond the 28 markets that exist today. the fourth pack is not enough. we have realized that we must get to the second reading, but that will certainly not bring us to the finish line, to the objectives we have set ourselves. we should probably get to a fifth package. mr president, i do not understand why on so many occasions when we talk about politics in general, we talk about the single market in europe, we talk about the liberalisation of services, we talk about transparency in the allocation of services, we talk about governance in this respect. but then, when we get our hands on these issues, we are reluctant, shy, unambitious in these respects. of course, we cannot be naive and deny the evidence that there is a status quo that has been established for many years and that must be taken into account, but we certainly cannot step on the current situation. but the search for this balance is too timid, too blocked; i was hoping for more. i think that this decision on the fourth package lacked courage and we have to recognise that we have some shortcomings and that this governance is certainly creating some problems. we have achieved little on liberalisation, but we are doing well on reciprocity. the market opening was not complete in all three areas.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the italian railway sector is in dire need of modernisation. the high speed, the only one the rapporteurs have considered, connects only a very few lines and the rest of the network is in a deplorable state. in my region the situation is worse than elsewhere: the distance between the port of genoa, one of the most important in the mediterranean, and the french border is 147 km and a train takes three hours to travel there, with at least half an hour waiting at ventimiglia or mentone due to a lack of agreement between french and italian railways. and we are here to talk about a european railway package? after yet another interruption to remove a train, it took 38 days and 2.5 million euros for unexplained organizational delays. i would therefore point out that in liguria the infrastructure is obsolete and the citizens are severely discriminated against because they pay too high a price for a service which is frankly unacceptable.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, for years there have been attempts to introduce real competition in the union's rail transport sector. however, what has been achieved so far has been nothing but confused market manipulation, which is harmful to both companies and users. i therefore welcome the new measure, but i cannot hide some reservations, some doubts. i am concerned that the opening up of railway markets may be a one-way street, that is to say, only to the benefit of certain undertakings and certain member states and to the detriment of others. it is no secret that some member states ignore the principle of reciprocity by investing outside their borders and yet keeping their markets closed to foreign competitors. this must be prevented and severely punished, otherwise the same injustices will continue to be perpetrated in the railway market, which is europe's fault and which is harmful to citizens, businesses and the economy. the liberalization of the railway market cannot and must not put at risk the jobs of certain categories of workers who have also expressed strong and justified concerns about this. we will ensure that the fourth railway package, once it has been adopted, is fair and does not lead to redundancies, wage cuts for workers and no benefits for passengers. italian passengers are dissatisfied, very dissatisfied with rail transport, which in recent years, despite the advent of technology, has definitely worsened with longer journey times. unfortunately, the real problems of our citizens will not be solved by this fourth package.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i generally agree with the main objectives of the fourth railway package. however, these principles will also have to be changed to take account of national specificities and the particular conditions of entry into the markets of the individual member states, and to create conditions of effective reciprocity and equality between the different european markets and between operators. the opening up of national passenger markets should be achieved by including conventional transport, and not just the so-called high-speed lines, also to ensure efficient services on smaller and less profitable lines. i therefore fully agree with what mrs de martini said a moment ago. in fact, alongside the high-speed trains, symbols of efficiency and modernity, there are still anachronistic situations on secondary lines, with the use of obsolete materials and inadequate services, at the mercy of any trivial weather or logistical inconvenience, which cause inconvenience to citizens, in particular commuters, and can compromise the tourist and economic development of many territories.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the fourth railway package is moving towards harmonization and interoperability in order to develop a single transport system in europe. this modernisation action unfortunately comes up against a tragic reality which is known to european citizens on a daily basis. we have a double track: we have the high-speed rail, the profit rail, but we also have a provincial, territorial and regional network that is going into a dead end. i think that in the next legislature we must adopt a new package so that there can be subsidiarity between these two types of speed. this package, however, is a step forward. in this context i gave my support to the proposal for a regulation to repeal regulation (eec) no 1192/69 on the normalisation of the accounts of railway undertakings. this is an outdated regulation which was adopted when railway budgets were still included in the state budget and it was necessary for the state to provide financial supplements for pension and insurance treatments or when it had to compensate for infrastructure investments, such as level crossings. the 1969 regulation provided a harmonised framework for all such compensation, removing the potential charge of state aid, but it was reserved for only 36 companies in each state. it is clear that the regulation in question made sense when railway undertakings were only in external competition and had no internal competition, as liberalisation now allows. it is not even conceivable today that there can be economic sustainability by extending this kind of skills to everyone. the railway reform, approved last november, requires railway companies to be run on the same principles as commercial companies. we must therefore proceed with this repeal. however, to meet the concerns raised by some colleagues who wanted the repeal to be linked to the transposition of the railway reform by the various member states, we have provided for the entry into force of the regulation to take place two years after its publication in the official journal of the european union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the rapporteurs for this very important and significant work, even if it may not seem satisfactory enough to some. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the railways are not used for the transport of dangerous goods. unfortunately, we have very low data on transport use. one of the major weaknesses for a european railway area is certainly the railway network, which is insufficient, especially because it has bottlenecks in cross-border sections because of the low income they represent. this is therefore an element which should be addressed in particular by the commission, including in terms of financial support. another weakness is certainly the congestion of very different standards - some have counted over 11,000 - that characterize the technical and safety matters in rail transport. another element that some people consider a weakness - and i am one of them - is the way transport is managed. there are, of course, those who have the truth in their pockets, those who have an ideological position, arguing that the separation of network management and transport management is the solution. there are no examples in the world to justify this kind of theory, because the interconnection between network and management is a very complex interconnection, which is not comparable with other systems of public services, such as gas, water or energy in general. the question here is very complicated and complex. some people also remembered that this only generates interest on high-yielding lines. we believe that what has come out of the committee on transport is not enough. we therefore propose amendments which, in the context of transparency, will make it possible to maintain integrated firms, which are still a value for the european system.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, civil aviation safety in europe is at the forefront, but there is a need to reflect on this area, which must be strengthened by effective and rapid coordination between the member states, to guarantee more the rights of passengers and workers, to clarify the responsibilities between airlines and airport services in the event of emergencies and to provide support in the event of problems with flights or services. but we must also consider the tax systems and employment contracts of certain airlines, since some, like ryanair, despite being staffed by staff from different member states, issue contracts which force them to evade tax in their home countries. this is detrimental to competing companies, particularly so-called national companies, which contract their staff on the basis of their nationality. we must be clear about reducing inequalities, because we must prevent workers from having tax penalties or negative pension consequences. clearness and rules respect freedom and work.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i support and share the commission's proposal for the harmonised introduction of an interoperable ecall service at european level, since it aims to ensure that emergency calls are handled properly by the emergency services by applying the so-called 'crucial hour' principle, which is estimated to save up to 2,500 lives in the european union every year. the ecall system needs to be integrated within the vehicle in order to make the service reliable and available to all, which is what nomadic systems do not provide. to ensure full functionality throughout the life cycle of the vehicle, the ecall system shall be subject to periodic functional testing. the commission shall consider submitting a legislative proposal by 2014 to regulate the ecall platform. as a platform providing a public emergency service, it is necessary to ensure free access and the protection of personal data. finally, i am in favour of the possibility of linking other additional on-board services to ecall, which would ensure full accessibility for the repair and maintenance of the public emergency service.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, security is a fundamental right of citizenship, but so is confidentiality, privacy. so finding a balance between two separate issues that ensure respect for fundamental rights was not easy. i think that the report we are discussing has succeeded in doing that and that is a good result for everyone. it goes without saying that we must defend and protect people who travel, who move, and unfortunately the number of fatal accidents is very high and death often survives because of a delay in intervention. the ecall can solve this problem. but it is equally important not to expose people using a means of transport to the risk of having information about them used for purposes which may be very different but which are nevertheless such as to infringe their privacy. we 've managed to keep these two things together: i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposal.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteurs, ms[nbsp ]sehnalová and mr de backer, for all their work in preparing these reports. europe’s road safety record is, of course, better than in many other parts of the world but as everyone agrees, even one death is one too many. however, i can inform you that there was a 7[nbsp ]% decline in road fatalities last year too so road safety is improving. but now to ecall. when we started discussions a couple of years ago about ecall and its possible applications and implementation, the issue then was not the signalling device. the issue was how all the supporting environment could and must be created: hospitals, emergency centres, which language, how it would be received, who would receive it. when we prepared our proposal, we were quite happy that we had found the necessary technical solutions with the member states so that creation of such a backup system was possible. i think this was a great achievement. the device itself, of course, is dormant. the device itself does not give any information to anybody unless something happens and so nobody can collect information provided by this device. at the same time we all use gps and navigation systems which dialogue with satellites, so those institutions or whatever which want to follow you have no big problems using this information, and use of these devices is more widespread. we have many mandatory elements to ensure and develop road safety. when i was young, seat belts were unknown and now the safety belt is also mandatory. actually the speed limit is mandatory too. it differs from country to country but in every country there are speed limits. now people are discussing the necessity of having, at least in certain types of vehicles and with some people, mandatory alcolocks. so this is again a certain restriction on your personal behaviour. of course, we can think that this should be a voluntary exercise, but if this is a voluntary exercise then the question is not about the device and i do not think it is a very expensive device. the question concerns, of course, all the backing system, and nobody would be willing to develop such a big system which unites emergency centres and all the necessary services when it is not clear that it will be used and how it will be used. we are, of course, open to discuss all issues. there is just one fact i have to correct on the issue of these public safety answering points (psaps). it was said that in the uk the cost would be around eur[nbsp ]3 million but in fact it would only cost around gbp[nbsp ]250[nbsp ]000 to upgrade these psaps.
the joint debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 26 february 2014. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the report by werner langen on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on insurance intermediation (recast) (com (2012) 0360 c7-0180/2012 2012/0175 cod)) (a7-0085/2014).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 26 february 2014.
the agenda includes the report by ms françoise grossetête, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the establishment of the 'health for growth' programme, the third multiannual programme of the eu action in the field of health for the period 2014-2020 ((com (2011) 0709 c7-0399/2011 2011/0339 cod)) (a7-0224/2012).
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i think we are talking about something that is very close to the hearts of the people of europe. the health issue is one of the most sensitive and also one of the most critical, because we know that health is something that is often seen in budgets today as a cost, as a deficit, as something that weighs heavily on the budgets of the states and the regions. i believe that we must change our view completely and i commend the work of my colleagues, and especially of my colleague, mrs françoise grossêtete, who has succeeded in bringing this change of view into this work. we must certainly respond to the health and sanitation needs of our citizens. it is important to emphasize the issue of prevention, as has already been mentioned, so i will not dwell on the various lifestyles and demographic change. we know how many elderly people there are and how much more we will have to deal with this problem, with these issues, in the coming years. but it is also important to be able to emphasize that the health sector must be seen as an industry which, in contrast to this deindustrialization of europe, is able to be an industry completely connected with the territory and capable of developing technologies and innovation, and therefore also capable of providing jobs as well as the primary response to the health and health needs of our fellow citizens. i am also pleased that, despite the budgetary constraints, we have managed to implement this 6% budget, as has been mentioned, which was perhaps the most difficult thing to achieve. we would have liked more, but i am pleased with what has been achieved, because in these times of crisis it is still a great achievement. i thank mrs françoise and wish the commissioner and parliament good work.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur, mrs grossetête. the aim we must set ourselves is to make european citizens live longer, while ensuring a better quality of life for them. it means investing in research and prevention, so that we can intervene early with the best available health practices, so that the patient can recover with as few side effects or disabling diseases as possible. the programme provides funding of eur 446 million over the next 7 years for national authorities, public and private bodies, international organisations and non-governmental organisations through the co-financing procedure. the work done on the union's budgets has resulted in an increase in financial appropriations of 5.7% compared with the previous period. the constraints on public finances require reforms of health systems to cope with the crisis. we must not risk the fact that health expenditure becomes a burden for some states rather than an opportunity for growth. the added value of medical progress and scientific research must be an economic lever and make excellent health care a real engine of the european economy. i would remind you that we must set ambitious targets to address the main risk factors, including poor diet, sedentary lifestyle, addiction to tobacco, alcohol and drugs. if we want to aim at a european union of peoples and not of finance, we cannot allow the percentage of people cured of cancer in some countries to be 30%, and in others to reach the excellent result of 80%. all this is because of lack of investment. the health of european citizens is not to be trifled with.
the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i was rapporteur for the envi committee on this regulation which sets out a series of guidelines, as an integral part of the europe 2020 strategy, on the objectives and priorities for broadband networks and digital infrastructures and services in the field of telecommunications. the creation of cross-border access to an interoperable infrastructure of digital public services is an area where european union action can bring added value by providing a service that is indispensable for the implementation of the directive on cross-border health and online healthcare. it enables interaction between citizens and healthcare professionals and the transmission of data between institutions, allowing access to electronic health records, electronic prescription services, telehealth services and home care. provision should be made for a uniform standard for the communication and representation of data and the sharing of electronic documents by healthcare and hospital facilities shared between member states.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, this is a serious problem. it is not a niche problem if 95% of sites according to the commission's monitoring of 6 years ago, in 2008 are inaccessible to disadvantaged people. today, the situation is not much better. and here we are talking about rights, participation, transparency, access to services, basically democracy. we have two approaches which are not incompatible and which have developed somewhat with the chatzimarkakis report: the commission, on the one hand, wants to stir things up and start a process of accessibility, starting with the first step and then hoping for a spillover effect, and parliament, on the other hand, wants greater ambition now. if we were a private company that had to consider otherwise able citizens - blind, visually impaired, elderly and so on - as indispensable users of our products, we would not hesitate for a moment to adapt our it tools immediately. so if the public administration considers all citizens, even the disadvantaged citizens, as equally important as others and therefore not victims of any discrimination, it must invest the appropriate resources also by adopting a softer free open source, as already mentioned. we share the commission's ambition and intention, but we would like a different step, a more ambitious road map, and i hope that the italian presidency will be able to take advantage of this debate and of the work that has been done so far by parliament.
vice-president of the commission. - madam president, i share parliament’s frustration that things are not moving fast enough. indeed, the saying was quoted: ‘people in glass houses should not throw stones’. i have to admit that i fear that our glass house is not stone-proof. but, let us be positive too. this proposal is a first crucial step to ensure that web-accessibility will be possible for all. i will continue this fight, no doubt about that. i am of course very much involved in your fight too. i hope we can get all the member states on board. anyhow, the commission will do the utmost; we are already doing our utmost to achieve progress at council level, for that is really needed. we have pushed for progress against significant time constraints and many competing dossiers which are on the table to be finalised within the european parliament mandate. this is also a fact of life. we share a firm belief in the potential of the internal market for web-accessibility. we should not wait around to make it a reality. new technological opportunities should be open to everyone. tomorrow’s vote is a very encouraging first step. thank you again for your determination in driving the issue forward. i very much hope that we will see the same commitment from member states in the council.
the rapporteur. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am convinced that the measure we are discussing and will be adopting - and i am confident that it will be adopted because all the major groups and many of the smaller groups have already voted in favour - is not just a technical measure. there's been a misinterpretation. i think that the commission has a duty to ensure that the european parliament is not left to the decisions of the council. we are embarking today on a new path in the european union. we are dealing with the heart of european integration, because the discipline of contracts is the discipline of people's daily lives. there is not a single citizen in europe who does not go out to buy goods. the european citizen is identified with this activity and the fact that we are disciplining this type of activity in this way is like intervening in the daily life of europe. we cannot only build europe, as it should be, at the great political occasions, but we must also build it in this way. today, however, with this measure, although limited to crossborder online and distance sales, although limited only to the right to buy and sell, we are opening a path in which the real task of the european union is manifested: i think we need to move beyond internal fragmentation. the fact that we are locked inside our own states in order to regulate daily life is an obstacle to the full realization of europe. so i think the political value of this path of ours should be emphasized to the end. i 'd say more like: i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative of drawing up a report on the situation in the community. it is everyday life that has to emerge and that we are carrying out. the spirit behind this is that of protecting consumers and allowing businesses to export across the border without any legal obstacles. increasing the supply of goods on the market is an essential element of consumer protection. what does it mean to protect consumers? it means protecting the person who goes to buy a commodity, but it means protecting not only the person who is already a consumer but also the person who can become one if the market offers something that is in his interest. we must have a dynamic view of consumers, not a static one, as some people sometimes do, who claim to defend consumers as a category and defend them almost by fixing them, by hypostatizing them and not by interpreting them in the sense that everyone must be able to become a consumer, because that is what well-being is. we are against an idea of europe based on austerity alone. we are certainly in favour of defending public accounts, but we cannot go beyond defending austerity if we do not incorporate into our european policy the elements of promotion and expansion of economic activity which favour investment. so consumer protection, which we have incorporated into this measure at a higher level than has ever been done before, is also a dynamic protection and therefore a high protection. i believe that we must overcome the uncertainties of those who are not convinced, who are concerned about the consequences, who have also expressed this in the debate, but that we must look dynamically at this experiment with the optional instrument, the indication of the remedies to defend the defenceless consumer. so far, the consumer is defenseless, especially when buying online, because in the face of the consumer, the consumer sees the goods, can evaluate them and can be present, but in the online purchase there is a new uncertainty that characterizes the consumer in a new way. the only way to solve this is to try out new instruments, and that is the spirit of the proposal we are putting to this house for approval. (the speaker agrees to answer a question with a blue card (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a blue-card question. first of all, formally, the adherence to the optional method is not only the seller's business. you can tell me that the consumer does not have the means to interpret this fact, because when he goes shopping he buys and does not care about which right he is defending or not. that makes sense. we are convinced, however, that the experiment with this instrument of optional legislation is to create a system which will be widespread in all countries, a system which will be unique and alternative to that of individual states and individual civil codes, and which will enable consumers to become accustomed to the international nature of their protection. now, of course, consumers only know the rules of their own country, their own state. so it is in the dynamic that is created by this measure that we have confidence. it is also true that there are some states which have superior protections, and you have mentioned the right ones. that's the truth. but what is our response now? first of all, the average level of consumer protection is much higher, and this will create a condition for the promotion of european consumer law which will be strengthened in a dynamic of this kind. so we are confident that in the two states you mentioned, effective protection will remain essentially the same.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, let me first of all thank the rapporteurs, my friends and colleagues klaus-heiner lehne and luigi berlinguer. we are about to adopt a proposal which has considerable advantages and benefits. the new optional right will also reduce costs and increase legal certainty in business transactions. it will also ensure a high level of consumer protection in all member states, increasing their confidence in online shopping. this right will also avoid the risk of having to translate and interpret the laws of the member states, reducing the administrative burden and costs of the judicial system and commercial transactions. in view of these clear advantages, some representative organisations, together with some colleagues, have raised doubts about the effectiveness of the instrument. i think that these criticisms are totally incomprehensible and contrary to the objective of facilitating the development of the internal market. those who claim that this instrument affects the rights of consumers have probably not studied the text submitted to the legal affairs committee in depth, otherwise it would have been immediately clear that this optional right will help consumers above all by facilitating the full exercise of their rights in all the member states of the european union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think that this morning's debate is a very good indication of the difference in our conception of europe and of community law. so i think we should support this measure even more, which is important. community law may have some faults, it may have some shortcomings, but it is never arrogant. it is an attempt at harmonization which europe must pursue in order to have legislation which, with the predominance of european law, can harmonize the various laws in the various states. unlike those who think that everything is negative, i believe that this is an important page in parliament today and that we really - which i never do - have lehne and berlinguer and the legal affairs committee to thank for the work they have done. i believe that the proposal which comes from the commission, but which parliament has studied in depth, must achieve a result, because it seeks to achieve three balances: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be given the opportunity to present their opinions on the proposal for a directive on the protection of consumers in respect of the processing of personal data by the commission. i believe that this is a fundamental problem affecting the citizen, the consumer, but also all those who, in the various countries, build this economy around the relationship of obligation, which must have a reflection and a reference point. that is how europe is built. i would like to say again, of course, that precisely because there are shortcomings, precisely because there is a need for improvement, i believe that today's vote, also for the council, can be an important and fundamental step in continuing along this path. i think we should tell the commission that and thank those who have brought this up in the legal affairs committee.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, thank you for giving me the floor again. i would like to make some factual comments on remarks that have been made, then i will respond to our two rapporteurs, whom i thank for their work on behalf of their committee. there was a question on irish citizens from ms mcguinness. i would just like to give the following facts: 67% of attempts to order from ireland fail (speaking about cross-border transactions), and 6.4% of irish citizens have faced a refusal to sell at least once. so the new legislation will make it easier for companies to sell to irish citizens: it will open the border and give citizens a choice. concerning the uk, the federation of small businesses and the british retail consortium are all very strong supporters of the new law, because they know that they face many problems in selling across borders. concerning consumer protection in the same country, i will give you just one example, and this concerns the free choice of remedies in case of defective products. in the uk a consumer has, under british law, the right to return a product 30 days after delivery. under the new law a consumer buying cross-border can terminate the contract immediately within a two-year period after the discovery of the defect. so we go from 30 days to two years. i do not believe that this is a reduction of the right of the consumer, who always has the right under national law to buy at the shop next door. it is really not a problem. but if the consumer wants to buy cross-border then he has a guarantee that his consumer rights will be very highly protected if he does so – as a choice, of course. there is a question which has been raised by the two rapporteurs, and this is a question which affects me directly because it would mean that i would have to change my basic proposal. the rapporteurs, in the name of parliament, propose reducing the scope of the law to distance contracts only. because the biggest added value of the european sales law is in reducing costs for the online sector (logically, the main reason such a law is needed), i agree with parliament and i will be prepared to reduce the scope to distance contracts only. if that is the wish of the parliament and the council in negotiations, i will not oppose it.
the rapporteur. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this debate has been of great interest because it shows how difficult the road to european union is, but it also shows how we are looking for solutions. i wish this aspect were clearer. we do not want to impose the unification of the single market, because the market does not allow itself to be imposed on by anyone, as is well known, nor do we want to abolish the civil codes and national rights all at once, because that is not possible. i've been a legal historian for a living, and i know for a fact that these are processes marked by gradualness. the important thing is to find a tool that reproduces successive ones. we believe that the choice of optional instrument has this characteristic. i understand the doubts because this is something new, i understand the concerns. but if we are gradual but also courageous, we can get to europe, but if we are not courageous we will remain in the situation we are in. a rejection, a non-approval of our proposal condemns us to inaction and that is not good. the debate has shown what we may have known from the statements of the individual parties, namely that there is a broad consensus in this house, beyond the political groups, and so this gives us some hope. however, madam commissioner, this also tells us something else. we very much appreciate the determination with which the commission has acted in this area, but it is not just a legal problem. we have a competence today in the legal aspect, that is to say, in overcoming, or attempting to overcome, the fragmentation of legislation. however, as mrs mcguinness rightly said, it is also practical and concrete support measures for online exports that can produce results. here a new consumer figure emerges, because the consumer who goes to a store sees and verifies the goods, but the online consumer bases everything on the good faith of the other party because he is uncertain and weak. we must work on this feature of modern online consumption, alongside legal rules, so i call for this rule to be approved.
it's a blue-card question. i'm not sure what it is. the question is really for the council and the commission but i am asking mr zaleski. this parliament has asked, by a large majority, to decide on the double seat, which costs as much as 200 million euros a year, 1,000 million per legislature, so 15% of the entire budget... (the president cut off the speaker)
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on 9 february 2014 the swiss people decided their future in a referendum. the swiss people have said stop immigration. europe must take note of this and not condemn this choice, which is free and democratic. if the same referendum were held in other european countries, how do you think it would turn out? if the referendum were held in italy, where there are 3.5 million unemployed, where 40% of young people are unemployed, where one third of families are at risk of poverty - which means that 18 million italians are at risk of poverty - the result would be obvious. because, you know what italians think? they think that they should be given jobs first, that subsidies and aid should be guaranteed to italians and not to immigrants, not to the latest arrivals, not to those who demand everything for free without having ever paid a single euro in tax. in italy, 5 million people refuse to seek treatment, refuse to go to the doctor, refuse to buy medicine because they have no money. that is why the italian citizens, like the swiss, the british and the french, can no longer tolerate the arrogance of this europe which demands that we open wide the doors of our countries and our labour market. as long as there are no jobs for our citizens, as long as the state cannot provide services to its citizens, immigrants must stay out. the commission's accusations, the usual speeches of goodwill that i hear in here, the accusations of racism are the wrong way of approaching the problem. europe is once again proving its inability to cope with...
governance of the single market must be geared towards growth and concrete results for citizens and businesses. we are talking about services, industry, manufacturing, and above all we are talking about jobs. the single market policies should be geared towards a new model of competitiveness based on responsibility, knowledge and innovation. the online scoreboard provides an overview of the good results achieved by the states, but also of the many issues identified as problematic for citizens and businesses, such as bathing concessions, tourist guides, mobile operators, issues that i have been following for some time and on which parliament must finally be able to change its attitude and line of action.
in writing. - as a ppe we voted in favour of the report on the governance of the single market, the aim of which is to monitor and safeguard the functioning of the single market within the eu. in future, it will be necessary to keep in mind the actions to be taken at national and european level to ensure good governance of the single market. i agree with the rapporteur that the european semester is a perfect opportunity to further harmonise the economic and employment policies of the member states and that the governance of the single market should be given an important chapter in each successive presidency. this is all the more essential if we consider that, in the process of coordinating the priorities of the single market, national parliaments must be more closely involved both in order to cooperate more closely with the european parliament and to defend the interests of the actors involved at national level. coordinating single market policies means forging new possible models of competitiveness based also on innovation, education and research. i therefore welcome the rapporteur's comments on the governance cycle of the single market and, above all, i believe that we should aim for consolidated governance within the framework of the european semester.
in writing. - i do not share the views expressed by mr cofferati in his report on the governance of the single market in the context of the european semester 2014. the text is part of the wider european semester mechanism, which aims to reduce the powers of the member states through ever closer control of each country's financial laws. that is why i did not intend to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - i shall vote in favour of the report, with particular reference to paragraphs (f) of the preamble and nos 6, 11, 17, 18, 23, 24, 30, 34 and 35. italian consumers suffer daily from the lack of integration of the single market, especially in terms of low competition, which results in high costs and services not subject to the strict and daily checks of the free market. every initiative in this field is a powerful measure, even for governments, to dismantle the position rentals and monopolies which harm the general interest and are a powerful brake on competitiveness. but i would like to note a strong agreement with the forecasts in paragraph 12: in the europe 2020 strategy, reindustrialisation aimed at recovering 20% of european gdp from manufacturing is also a key element as a way out of the crisis through the revision of our production model. in the context of a competitive advantage, europe has all the cards in the deck to position itself as a leader in several industrial sectors. some ruling classes have understood this and have acted on it, others are chasing dangerous chimeras, as the history since 2008 teaches us, of a development model based exclusively on services.
in writing. - i supported the proposal because it, on the basis of the european parliament resolution of 7 february 2013 on the governance of the single market, reiterates the parliament's call to establish a pillar dedicated to strengthening the governance of the single market in the context of the european semester. this pillar would better support the real economy, stimulate growth and create additional jobs. strengthening the governance of the single market would improve its functioning and help to foster economic growth and job creation. the single market remains a key driver of growth and employment. it must therefore be genuinely growth-oriented and deliver tangible results for europe's citizens, consumers and businesses. as regards the main areas of intervention, the report confirms the european commission's observations, particularly emphasising the importance of the public procurement and financial services markets. finally, the proposal provides that the coordination of the single market priorities in the context of the european semester is firmly anchored in a deeper democratic process.
in writing. - i voted for this report. the negotiator on behalf of my political group was able to grasp the factual aspects, which go beyond the political colour, and she was able to show how such matters can be of benefit to everyone. i am referring in particular to the importance of the internal market. the italian companies of excellence, which may be struggling to survive when their potential market is 60 million people, could work with much higher numbers if they could effectively reach 500 million people! and yet technical standards, languages, transport costs that vary not by distance but by national borders that we should consider as erased, constitute barriers that leave us in our own microcosm strangled by lack of liquidity and reduced demand for bone. i voted in favour, hoping that the introduction of the internal market as one of the priorities of the european semester will really bring more opportunities to those who are good at their job and will make it possible to find new career opportunities for those who, in this italy, are not left behind.
in writing. - i have decided to vote against this report on the governance of the single market (in the context of the european semester), as it removes powers from the national states and gives them to brussels.
in writing. - the free movement of people, goods, services and capital has been and remains the economic engine of the union. despite progress, unfortunately, in several key areas the integration of member states' markets is still incomplete. especially at this time of economic crisis, in order to foster the eu's growth potential, it is important that the single market functions effectively. i supported the cofferati resolution because i agree with the need to strengthen the governance of the internal market, including through control instruments, in order to fully exploit the potential of the single market, stimulating growth and employment and helping european citizens and businesses to overcome the crisis.
in writing. - the strengthening of the governance of the single market is closely linked to the practical possibility of establishing a dedicated pillar within the european semester. it is important that the coordination of economic and employment policies be supplemented by a fundamental chapter devoted to all possible levers to stimulate the real economy which would otherwise remain outside the overall coordination of the european semester. conscious of the need for the coordination of the single market priorities in the context of the european semester to be anchored in a deeper democratic process, with the full involvement of national parliaments, respect for the prerogatives of the european parliament and adequate scope for the social partners and all other stakeholders, i voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - the governance of the single market is a fundamental issue. the report takes a balanced approach and comments on previous recommendations, as well as an updated position on the content of the next annual growth review and on priority actions at national and european level. i agree that the report on the state of integration of the single market, which accompanies the annual growth analysis, should indicate problems and shortcomings, but also outline a well-defined set of priorities relating to the real economy. the priority areas identified by the commission remain the focus of attention and coordination efforts. as regards governance tools, i believe that the online evaluation framework in particular provides a very comprehensive overview for the exchange of good practice and feedback from the various member states.
in writing. - the strengthening of the governance of the single market is closely linked to the practical possibility of establishing a dedicated pillar within the european semester. i therefore supported mr cofferati's report, which suggested that the coordination of economic and employment policies should be supplemented by a fundamental chapter devoted to all the possible levers for stimulating the real economy, which would otherwise fall outside the overall coordination of the european semester.
in writing. - the implementation of the 2007/2013 programming period is characterised by resources not yet committed and not yet spent, objectives of the 2020 strategy far from being achieved, an increase in the share of the population at risk of poverty and social exclusion. the convergence processes have come to a halt, regional disparities have increased and in many cases national cofinancing has been reduced. greater attention to the quality of investment is needed, including through greater focus on results, promoting the use of better evaluation systems. finally, as i have repeatedly suggested in my amendments and questions, we must introduce the possibility of excluding from the stability pact both public productive investments, in order to enable the local authorities in particular to carry out concrete measures for the territory, and measures to combat youth unemployment and to promote training and apprenticeship.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, because with this text we stressed the importance of concentrating eu public funding in important areas such as job creation, smes, employment, education, research, innovation and sustainable transport. this report underlines the weaknesses of control over the funds and proposes improvements, such as the need to strengthen the transparency of reporting and the quality of programming. moreover it stresses the importance of analysing the cause of the low absorption rates of the resources, a very well-known problem which is severely damaging the southern regions of italy, for example.
in writing. - with the report adopted today, this house has reaffirmed a concept which is very dear to me and which has been the basis of political commitment and work on the new cohesion policy regulations for 2014-2020 in recent months, namely the principle that cohesion policy programmes should define their investment priorities taking due account of the specific conditions of each region, including the objectives set out in the europe 2020 strategy. a similar principle was supported by parliament in order to recognise that the spending of european regional development fund resources took account of the 'insularity' and thus structural competitive disadvantage of several european regions. however, that recognition, which i would call sacrosanct, was rejected in the trilogue by the commission and the council, and today's occasion, and the vote on this report, is an opportunity to reiterate my deep dissatisfaction with that decision which did not take account of the peculiar and specific situation in which millions of european citizens living on the islands find themselves.
in writing. - i found the report by mrs savisaar-toomast to be acceptable and without any particular criticism, and i therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. - the report accurately traces the dynamics produced by the crisis on convergence processes and the need to recalibrate cohesion policies taking account of new emergencies, in particular social exclusion, youth and gender unemployment, the increase in new poor people and the erosion of the incomes and quality of life of the middle classes. i share that view. i agree that, at a time when public investment is needed, the emphasis should shift from absorption to monitoring and detailed results of individual projects financed by european funds. a robust accountability mechanism, such as that included in the new cycle partnership contracts, can also help to improve the finalisation of spending, which is sometimes lacking, mainly due to the inefficiency and poor design of local actors. in other words, we must - as point 7 of the report says - strengthen the involvement of local authorities by rewarding their ability to invest and to spend the funds well. finally, i would like to join in some of the points made by the rapporteur and the commission about the need to integrate access parameters and policies in the light of more precise analyses of the vulnerability of the individual candidate regions.
in writing. - the cohesion policy plan for 2014-2020 will allocate some €352 billion to eu regions, cities and the real economy, with the ultimate aim of promoting a harmonious and balanced development of the union by reducing persistent inequalities within it. through these funds, the union will be able to achieve the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, such as increasing growth and employment, combating climate change, reducing energy dependence on third countries or strengthening the welfare state. i voted in favour because many of the measures under consideration will be aimed at improving the employment prospects of young people, a subject which, at a difficult historical moment such as the present, is likely to have a chronic connotation. the measure will also target target groups such as smes and micro-enterprises, whose employees account for two thirds of the total employment in the union. this will provide them with funding and support for new recruitment and investment in this area. these measures will enable europe to get back on track, reducing the differences between its various regions.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because cohesion policy is the decisive instrument for the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy. this report assesses how, in the context of cohesion policy, regions and cities can contribute to the different types of growth envisaged by europe 2020. it calculates the distance of cities and regions from the national 2020 targets proposed in the national reform programmes. future cohesion programmes will need to reflect these diversities in order to better concentrate resources, maximise effectiveness and tackle problems where they are most acute. on the basis of these considerations, future cohesion programmes will place particular emphasis on incentives to growth and investment in job creation. a clear reduction in unemployment will only be possible through targeted policies and a stable recovery.
in writing. - the context has changed, with an economic crisis that is bringing workers and business sectors to their knees, and our approach must change accordingly if european cohesion policy is to be truly effective. the differences in gdp per head and unemployment at regional level are increasingly marked. we must take concrete action, not just provide aid. we focus resources on key areas with a focus on quality. it is essential to work towards differentiated objectives according to regional and interregional characteristics, focusing on entrepreneurial activity. recovery and employment are part of our entrepreneurial fabric.
in writing. - cohesion policy must continue to be an effective mechanism for achieving the europe 2020 objectives of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. this can only be achieved by constantly cooperating in the implementation of integrated regional and urban programmes, in cooperation with regional and local authorities, the main economic actors, the social partners and civil society.
in writing. - the economic crisis has had a strong social impact, threatening to reverse the process of convergence and to increase the differences between european regions. the same percentage of the european population at risk of poverty has been increasing in recent years, which is why i agree that the european social fund (esf) must play a pivotal role in reducing disparities in human capital between regions and helping to raise employment rates. cohesion policy should play a key role in the context of the next multiannual financial framework 2014-2020, focusing on investment at local and regional level in important areas such as job creation, smes, employment (in particular youth employment), labour mobility, training and education, research and innovation, ict, sustainable transport, sustainable energy, the environment, the promotion of institutional capacity of public bodies and efficient public administration, urban development and cities. finally, i agree that while cohesion policy has often focused on absorption, it is important to stress that evaluation must be carried out in monitoring actions and in setting objectives, with the aim of making cohesion policy as efficient as possible.
in writing. - the report on optimising the potential of the outermost regions (ors) offers new ideas for re-thinking the geostrategic policies linking the eu and the ors. i believe that investment in the ors should explore new ground and enable the sustainable development of these regions by integrating them more closely into a european framework. relations between the eu and the ors are a strong sign of both existing european solidarity and a desire for mutual support and mutual benefit. the octs represent a crucial challenge for the future of the eu because they reflect the role it wants to play in the world in the areas of climate change, biodiversity, the protection of regional languages, the environment, etc. the final aim is also to involve the ors in major projects in the not too distant future in order to create a strong fabric, such that the relations between these areas and the eu are always strong. the rup should be seen as an opportunity to be seized and not as a disadvantage: this implies that the eu will have to give a more pragmatic approach to relations with these areas, taking into account their geographical, geoeconomic and climatic characteristics.
in writing. - i share the views expressed in the omarjee report. i believe that the outermost regions play an important role in achieving the objectives set in the european union programmes. that is why i have voted for it.
in writing. - i support the report as a whole and i vote in favour. i would like to draw particular attention to the indications given in points 2 to 4, 7, 17, 19, 22, 34, 35, 39, 40, 41, 48 to 50, 56, 57, 61 to 63, 71 and 72. the union has historical, political and moral obligations towards the ors. the rapporteur rightly pointed out the phenomena which put the normal mechanisms of life and the economy (from competition to the labour market) under pressure in these regions and which require targeted responses based on the specific characteristics of the territories. there are many success stories in these regions in areas such as the green economy and sustainable development, neighbourhood policy, specialisation in niche industries or the growth of genuine economic hubs, and not just in the tourism sector. the rapporteur's observation that some octs are an inescapable link between europe and other continents is also noteworthy in its strategic implications. by drawing on these specificities, by fulfilling its responsibilities as described above, and by improving coordination and inclusion in programmes and policies already decided, the european union could indeed turn some of the problems facing the ors into opportunities.
in writing. - the european union must see the optimisation of the potential of the outermost regions and their integration into european programmes as a medium-term objective to be achieved by 2020. these territories should be seen as a potential 'basin' which the union should exploit in terms of tourism, biodiversity, research and innovation. i therefore voted in favour of the measure calling on the commission to strengthen the eligibility of the outermost regions for european structural funds, for example to improve their integration into european transport routes. only in this way will it be possible to promote the development of these regions, which will bring benefits to them, which will be reflected on the whole eu.
in writing. - the current model of relations between the european union and the outermost regions, based on a central policy of essentially solidarity, must be overcome in order to achieve a completely new relationship, where investments in these areas are expanded to enable them to develop sustainably. only then will they be able to break out of their isolation and enter the heart of european policies.
in writing. - the report calls for a complete reversal of the conception of policies relating to the outermost regions, in order to give them value and support, while recognising their peculiar nature. the rapporteur calls for the outermost regions to be treated in the various policy areas with the same attention as other regions, a principle that is undoubtedly appreciated and shared, using a pragmatic approach. i agree with this view, given the geographical, social and economic particularities of these regions. however, it must not be forgotten that each region has its own peculiarities, which is why the ors, while deserving due attention, must not also undermine the attention that must also be devoted to the other european regions, especially the poorest or those particularly affected by the crisis.
in writing. - the possibility for parliament to evaluate eu finances on the basis of results achieved gives it the opportunity to evaluate both the results achieved at policy level and the legitimacy of financial operations. the proper management of union funds and the avoidance of waste are priorities. although progress has been made, it is hoped that the commission will heed parliament's calls and explain in a simple, concise and general manner how the expenditure contributes to the overall objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. in this sense, the performance-based evaluation report of eu finances will also help to strengthen the result culture in the financial management of the union and prepare the transition to a truly results-based budget.
in writing. - the theurer report gives a balanced and acceptable assessment of the union's finances. i therefore intend to vote in favour of it.
in writing. - the draftsman of this own-initiative report is the chairman of the committee on budgetary control of the european parliament. the text adopted thus represents a summary view of the broader subject of the eu budget. i fully agree with the rapporteur that this new instrument provided for in the treaty on the functioning of the european union should be used to further encourage the institutions to act in the best interests of the citizens. the institutions themselves, in fact, cost proportionately less to operate than the largest charities in the world. moreover, the focus on the use of public resources is such that there is little room for waste. however, this report rightly focuses less on the individual cost items than on the achievement of the results, which is what really matters, and specifies this choice at the methodological level. i support the work of the rapporteur and voted in favour, in the belief that this instrument is and must continue to be a genuine act of representing the will and the interests of the citizens, embodying the true spirit of a parliament.
every day dozens of people lose their lives on the streets of italy. in my region, sardinia, along the sassari-olbia highway alone, 100 lives have been lost in the last 20 years. much has been done in terms of prevention and the results are in plain sight. the number of road deaths has halved in the last ten years. in order to get as close to zero as possible, there is still a lot of room for improvement in terms of the timeliness of the rescue. in this regard, since 2005, the commission has called on car manufacturers to implement the ecall electronic emergency call service in their vehicles, but to no avail. today, by approving this report, we have made the system mandatory for all new vehicles registered from 2015. this is, in my view, a classic example of how the union's action can be of tangible and concrete benefit to the citizens of the community and to those who live in europe.
the adoption of the report on the ecall system is a clear signal of parliament's support for road safety. in 2012, over 1 million road accidents occurred on the roads of the european union, resulting in 28 000 fatalities and over 1.5 million injuries. the ecall system does not anticipate accidents or reduce them, but it can provide very rapid response procedures. in fact, the time is reduced by about 50% in rural areas and up to 40% in urban areas and you can help reduce the congestion that forms in these situations by up to 20%. in addition, such a system can ensure adequate intervention, especially when people in a state of shock are unable to communicate their position during an accident.
at a time when there is a lack of confidence in the work of the european institutions, this parliament is showing its closeness to the demands of the citizens by approving a text which protects their health and physical safety. the proposal for a regulation introducing the obligation to equip road vehicles with an electronic ecall system, capable of automatically alerting the authorities in the event of a road accident, will not only make our roads safer but will also help save thousands of lives every year. at present, only 0.7% of cars registered in the union are equipped with emergency call systems, but these are services offered only in high-quality cars that not all citizens can afford. the approved regulation provides for the mandatory installation of the system on all vehicles from 2015 so that all european drivers can benefit from the emergency call service regardless of the brand and at an affordable price.
in writing. - i share the de backer report which analyses the electronic emergency call service e-call. i believe that equipping all vehicles with an automatic emergency call system can significantly reduce the number of road fatalities and i therefore believe that e-call should be introduced in a compulsory and free way. that is why i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. - as i was in favour of the july 2012 report, i confirm with my vote my strong support for the e-call project. in the united states, the first projects for electronically integrated first responders networks date back to the 1980s, and advanced experiments have been under way for decades in many european cities and regions, even those with small populations. not to mention the individual devices, widely used in telemedicine, which are already in their third generation, capable of operating clinical trials remotely. i also recall that these aspects were already included in road safety plans more than ten years ago, which responded to the european objective of reducing road deaths. so the time is ripe. two concerns remain, both of which are also mentioned in the report: the first is part of the more general title of the maturation of an ict culture in an ageing population; the second, more sensitive, concerns the relationship between the right to privacy and civil liberties more generally, on the one hand, and the new safety and security systems, on the other. it must be acknowledged that the news of the past year has raised additional concerns which the information campaign to citizens on the unified number 112 will have to address in detail.
in writing. - safety is and always should be a priority. it is always and in any case pursued in all its forms, including the road. it is in this spirit that i have followed this proposal and especially the privacy aspect. i believe that in the face of an accident, sending life-saving rescues should take priority over even thinking that individuals' privacy might be violated. it doesn't want, at least from my perspective, to be a form of intrusion or surveillance at all costs, but simply a way to use technology to our advantage. if there are any negative aspects, they should be properly considered, but if it is not possible to have more security without reducing the level of confidentiality, i certainly prefer the former. i therefore voted in favour of this proposal for a directive.
in writing. the moments immediately following a car accident are crucial. anyone who works in an ambulance knows that to save a person's life, you have to run, every second counts. europe is helping motorists and rescuers with a sensor that, once installed in the car, is activated at the moment of the collision by contacting the emergency numbers. the instrument, which also allows the vehicle to be located, ensures that rescue teams arrive immediately at the scene of the accident, thus considerably reducing the time required for intervention.
in writing. - parliament will use a regulatory approach to accelerate the deployment and maximise the potential of the ecall system, which will be made available to all european citizens. the ecall system is an eu-wide public emergency call system installed on board vehicles which is automatically activated as soon as the on-board sensors detect a major accident. once activated, the system calls the european emergency number (112) and establishes a telephone link with the emergency centre and sends the details of the accident to the emergency services, including the time of the accident and the exact location of the vehicle involved. i believe that today's vote is a great signal and a fundamental and very impactful intervention in our daily lives. this innovative system will be able to speed up emergency response times by 40% in urban areas and 50% in rural areas, with a marked improvement in the timing of rescue operations.
in writing. - every year in europe tens of thousands of people are killed and 1.5 million injured in road accidents. with regard to the proposal for a decision on the introduction of an electronic service called ecall in the european union, i gave a favourable opinion because i believe that such a system can be useful and innovative in providing important guarantees on the timeliness of emergency calls in the event of road accidents. the emergency call system will be installed on all new vehicles with the aim of reducing the number of deaths due to accidents by automatically, immediately and free of charge sending a call for help from the car to 112. i hope that this measure will make a significant contribution to saving lives and reducing the severity of injuries caused by accidents, and will save valuable time. in defining this project it is important that member states ensure good organisation in the management of calls and encourage the establishment of appropriate infrastructures to receive and manage ecalls within their territory.
in writing. - according to the bill voted today with colleagues, emergency call devices that automatically alert the emergency services in the event of a road accident will have to be installed on all new models of cars and light trucks by october 2015. mr sehnalová explained that in the event of a serious road accident, the on-board ecall system uses the 112 telephone number to automatically alert the emergency services. it indicates the exact location to allow faster access to the accident site, save lives and reduce the severity of injuries. the bill gives car manufacturers a deadline of october 2015 to install ecall devices on all new models of cars and light vans. in the draft law, however, parliament has stressed the issue of data protection to ensure that vehicles equipped with ecall are not traceable or subject to constant monitoring.
in writing. - it is time for the european commission to take all the necessary steps to make ecall a mandatory service for new vehicles, considering that since 2005 only 0.7% of vehicles have installed the system on a voluntary basis.
in writing. - ecall is part of the e-safety applications which aim, in particular, to reduce the consequences of road accidents. the service is designed to automatically send an emergency call in the event of a major accident. immediate notification of the accident, as well as correct location, will reduce the time needed to provide effective assistance, as it allows for faster intervention by the emergency services at the scene of the accident. i share the principle of a more accessible europe for all and i think it is appropriate to apply this system.
in writing. - i strongly support the commission's proposal to make ecall mandatory in all new vehicles from 1 october 2015. in addition, the 112 service already exists and psaps have already been set up and are functioning properly and some states are already equipped for the implementation of the ecall 112 service. in addition, since the 112 service is not yet well known to the public, member states should increase this awareness through publicity and awareness-raising campaigns, in coordination with the commission, in order to ensure greater consistency in their action. a key problem is the exact location of the source of the call, through gnss location systems extended to as many citizens as possible.
in writing. - the approval of the political dialogue and cooperation agreement between the european union and central america is one of the main objectives of the european union's foreign policy. the political dialogue and cooperation agreement, which will apply only to the extent that its provisions are compatible with the eu-latin america association agreement, has important objectives such as the consolidation of the political dialogue and economic integration process already under way between the parties. in particular, i support the importance of the agreement in strengthening the link between the member states and the republics involved, so that initiatives can be launched to promote sustainable development, regional integration, conflict prevention and resolution, human rights, democracy and good governance.
in writing. - i backed this report because i believe that this agreement is an opportunity to strengthen the political dialogue and economic cooperation between the european community and the central american countries. i am particularly pleased at the introduction of new areas of cooperation such as human rights, migration issues, counter-terrorism, drugs and small arms, and i am convinced that this kind of improved partnership will allowed both sides to benefit from this collaboration.
in writing. - i welcome the recommendation of the committee on foreign affairs to approve the agreement with the republics of costa rica, el salvador, guatemala, honduras, nicaragua and panama, because i believe that closer cooperation between the european union and the countries of central america will strengthen the union and its role as a civil power in the world. in particular, i welcome the objective of consolidating the political dialogue and the economic cooperation process launched in the framework of the 1984 san josé dialogue, renewed in florence in 1996 and in madrid in 2002, support for the promotion of sustainable development between the regions, including civil society and the private sector, and the pursuit of greater cooperation on immigration, regional integration, poverty reduction, sustainable development and security in the central american region. finally, as regards the issues of conflict prevention and resolution, human rights, the spread of democracy and the fight against corruption, i can only support the efforts made by the european union to build a common ground with the central american republics, first with the 1993 framework cooperation agreement, then with the association agreement of june 2012, and finally with this agreement.
in writing. - i agree with the recommendation as the political dialogue and cooperation agreement is designed to build on the previous cooperation established by the 1993 eu-central america framework cooperation agreement, which committed the parties to working together towards an association agreement, then signed in june 2012. the eu has also been active in the fight against terrorism, and has been involved in the development of a number of international conventions and agreements. the text of the political dialogue and cooperation agreement is designed to consolidate the political dialogue and economic cooperation process with central america, to strengthen the cooperation programme governed by the framework cooperation agreement between the european economic community and the republics concerned, and to promote sustainable development in both regions through a development partnership involving all the parties concerned.
in writing. - following the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon and the completion of the ratification procedure by the member states in december 2011, the commission presented a new proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of the political dialogue and cooperation agreement in 2012. since any amendment to the draft proposal which has been approved requires the approval procedure to be repeated, the text must be voted on again in parliament. i therefore voted in favour today.
in writing. - the weber report analysing the political dialogue and cooperation agreement between the ec and costa rica, el salvador, guatemala, honduras, nicaragua and panama is well developed and balanced, and i have therefore decided to support it with my vote.
in writing. - i vote in favour of the recommendation on the mutual readmission of illegal immigrants. at the same time, however, i can only recall that cooperation between the european union and the central american republics is good for the union's role in the world, for its commitment to the spread of democratic values and the protection of human rights, and for the republics and their economic development. i am aware of the importance of the problem of illegal immigration, as a citizen of a country which is fighting every day with all its strength through a concerted action of the institutions to combat this scourge. i am very concerned about this issue and i cannot forget what happened last year in lampedusa, when hundreds of people lost their lives in the greatest tragedy in the mediterranean in the 21st century. i believe that european action on illegal immigration, starting at our borders and then spreading to every continent through agreements such as the one signed with the countries of central america, can only be welcomed by the european parliament, and my vote is in that direction.
in writing. - i think that article 49 of the political dialogue and cooperation agreement with central america deserves particular attention, since it concerns the mutual readmission of illegal migrants. i think that the subject is being dealt with in a fairly balanced way and that it will allow us to deal with problems of illegal immigration in an effective and flexible way.
in writing. - the economic recovery in the eu is still fragile. access to credit and red tape, particularly for smes, remain the main obstacles. the recovery of finances must be growth-friendly. the real conditions of each economy and the impact on the younger generations of europeans and future generations must be given careful consideration. we need a strong combination of solidarity and accountability, as well as a review of the troika system to ensure proper accountability and democratic legitimacy. finally, as i have repeatedly suggested in my amendments and questions, we must introduce the possibility of excluding productive public investment from the stability pact, so that local authorities in particular can carry out concrete measures for the territory.
in writing. - i think that the berès report on guidelines for the employment policies of the member states is not very effective in terms of a real recovery of the european labour market. that is why i abstained.
in writing. - i supported the report because this proposal provides that the guidelines for member states' policies listed in the annex to the council decision of 21 october 2010 will be maintained in 2014. member states and the eu will continue to work towards developing a coordinated strategy for employment and the promotion of a competent, skilled and adaptable workforce. the europe 2020 strategy will finally enable the economic system to be steered towards smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, with a high level of employment, productivity and social cohesion. the employment guidelines should therefore remain unchanged until 2015.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the commission's proposal for a draft resolution on guidelines for the employment policies of the member states because i believe that in a time of economic recession such as the present one it is vital to have a look at the issue of work. europe must send a clear signal to the member states, and take the lead in dictating the measures needed to create new job opportunities and to ensure better protection of existing ones. i am thinking in particular of recent graduates who, in a country like italy, find it extremely difficult to enter the labour market.
in writing. - in its report on the guidelines for the economic policies of the member states, parliament endorsed the european commission's proposal to adopt a new strategy for growth and employment based on greater coordination of the economic policies of the various member states. unemployment, particularly youth unemployment, is one of the eu's most pressing problems. we cannot create jobs unless we get the market moving again by revitalizing the enterprises. the berès report, which i supported with my vote, points the way to the harmonization of national policies, to promote the development of the common market by breaking down the barriers to competition created by differences.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the strejček report on the common system of value added tax (vat) because i believe that the commission's proposal aims to improve the efficiency of the vat collection system, while streamlining bureaucratic procedures and reducing the costs of these procedures both for the member states' administrations and for taxable persons. i also think it is good to limit the requests for information to the purposes of control and tax collection, so that the internal market can continue to function properly. in conclusion, i believe that the introduction of a standard vat return, including a common electronic format, will not only reduce the cost and time of completing the return, but will also facilitate the mechanisms for collecting and paying vat and strengthen the supervisory systems with a view to eliminating vat fraud.
in writing. - while i agree with some parts of the strejcek report, i believe that some passages contain critical elements which should be further explored. that is why i have decided to abstain.
in writing. - the commission recalled the central role of the reformulation of vat returns at european level in a wide range of acts, programmes and initiatives to reduce administrative burdens. the vat return is a pillar of the single market. as a strong supporter not only of bureaucratization but also of value added tax as an alternative to taxation schemes on individuals and labour which damage productivity and depress aggregate domestic demand, i am convinced that the single declaration, in a simplified electronic format, will have a positive effect on the whole of the european business system, particularly in those countries where the legislation and the resulting obligations on businesses are more complex. simplicity is also inherent in legality: a simplified system reduces errors and the possibility of willful misrepresentation. it is a powerful tool to combat tax evasion and offers a chance to reduce under-taxation and increase overall tax revenue, which is a necessary prerequisite for recovery policies and investment. it is not excluded that, if the results are satisfactory, member states will be stimulated to redistribute the tax burden in favour of households and enterprises. i therefore strongly support the report.
in writing. - the european union's value added tax (vat) is a broad-based general consumption tax calculated on the basis of the value added of all commercial activities involving the production and distribution of goods and the provision of services. i voted in favour of the proposal because, by introducing the standard vat return, it will be possible to reduce the administrative burden of vat collection by up to eur 15 billion per calendar year. the aim of the report is to improve the efficiency of vat collection, while cutting red tape and reducing the costs of vat collection for member states' administrations and taxable persons. the proposal will help to reduce the burden on business activities and to remove obstacles to the proper functioning of the internal market. in summary, the introduction of a standard vat return should reduce unnecessary costs caused by the diversity of rules and procedures currently governing the presentation of vat returns in the union and should help to facilitate both the collection and payment of vat and the control of vat returns by member states' administrations.
in writing. - any rule that allows for the reduction of bureaucracy meets my favor. this is the case, for example, of this proposal for a directive, which finally allows for a standard model for vat returns, reducing what is known in english as 'red tape', i.e. the bureaucratic burden on the shoulders of companies. i am thinking of small businesses and artisans who do not have the manpower to afford an accountant and who can reduce their administrative costs thanks to this measure. but i also think that accounting professionals will be able to pursue more satisfactory activities from a professional point of view and will not have to run the risk of making mistakes in the interpretation of the forms.
in writing. - to simplify, to simplify, to lighten the burden of constraints to make life easier for our entrepreneurs. this is the europe we like, the europe which is close to the citizens and the workers. the proposal on the common tax system will simplify the work of companies working with foreign countries. the same forms and deadlines for all eu countries will ensure speed and clarity. once the new directive comes into force, annual summary declarations will be abolished and companies will be required to submit only the monthly declaration, while micro-enterprises will only be required to submit the quarterly declaration.
in writing. - directive 2006/112/ec has allowed member states wide discretion over the information to be requested in the vat return, giving rise to disparate rules and procedures within the eu, which have created additional administrative burdens for businesses. these disparities have created loopholes and generated fraud to the detriment of the member states themselves. mr strejček's legislative resolution proposes to amend the directive by introducing the standard vat return. at a time of crisis such as the one we are experiencing, i believe it is important to support the provision of uniform rules for the definition of mandatory information, both in order to reduce further burdens on businesses and to improve the functioning of the internal market and, at the same time, to combat tax evasion.
in writing. - the aim of this proposal would be to create a single vat return valid in all the countries of the european union, in such a way as to simplify the different models currently in existence by standardizing them through a common standard. the european commission's estimates are a little too optimistic in my view when they speak of possible savings of up to 15 billion euros a year due to the reduction in administrative burdens provided for by this measure. even if that figure is not reached, i am convinced that it can be a useful tool, especially for small and mediumsized enterprises, which are often burdened by similar bureaucratic problems which take up a lot of time and money. i hope, therefore, that the model proposed by the commission will be as simple and clear as possible, because i would not want this initiative to turn from useful to harmful if it is applied in the wrong way.
in writing. - there is a need for a more effective system of vat collection, given that as much as 12% of vat revenue is not collected each year due to various types of fraudulent activity. the introduction of the standard vat return and the reduction of bureaucracy and costs must be the basis of any innovation process in this direction.
in writing. - the european union's value added tax (vat) is a broad-based general consumption tax calculated on the basis of the value added of all commercial activities involving the production and distribution of goods and the provision of services, with only a few exceptions. vat is generally not applied to goods sold for export or for the supply of services. however, it applies to imports, so that eu producers can compete on equal terms in the internal market with suppliers of imported goods or services based in a third country. the rapporteur appreciates that the aim of the commission's proposal is to improve the efficiency of vat collection, while cutting red tape and reducing the costs of this both for the member states' administrations and for taxable persons. he welcomes the aim of limiting information requests to what is strictly necessary for the control and collection of the tax. the proposal strikes a reasonable balance and proportionality between the need to reduce the burden on business and the need to remove the obstacles to the proper functioning of the internal market.
in writing. - improving the efficiency of the internal market in vat collection is an extremely important objective for the proper functioning of the market, as is the reduction of red tape and the reduction of costs for the states and citizens. the creation of standard information boxes can be a useful tool for harmonisation at european level, as well as a way of reducing the time taken by companies to complete and send the information.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the amendment of council decision 2009/831/ec because, considering that the new guidelines on regional state aid for the period 2014-2020 will enter into force on 1 july 2014, i think it is appropriate to extend the period of application of decision 2009/831/ec by six months, so that its expiry date coincides with the expiry date of the guidelines currently in force. these guidelines form part of a macro-strategy to modernise state aid control and to foster growth in the single market by encouraging the adoption of more effective aid measures and by focusing the commission's control action on cases with the greatest impact on competition. in view of the geostrategic difficulties of madeira and the azores (as outermost regions) in terms of the low level of automation of farms, the transport of raw materials and packaging not produced locally, and the costs of labour, energy and installation of ad hoc equipment for the production of rum, liqueurs and spirits, i consider it reasonable and justified to extend the period of application of decision 2009/831/ec by six months.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the hübner report, which analyses the amendment of council decision 2009/831/ec granting portugal an extension of the concession to apply a reduced taxation to liqueurs produced and consumed in the autonomous regions of madeira and the azores. i believe that, since the renewal is only for six months and concerns exclusively liqueurs produced and consumed in the outermost regions, this decision cannot cause any damage to the market and to our farms.
in writing. - madeira and the azores are part of the territory of the european union, but separate. as in other cases, i am thinking in particular of the french overseas territories, there are derogations from the rules on aid and certain taxes to compensate for the logistical difficulties of production in these places. as long as it is a question of supporting local consumption only, given the low volumes, exceptions can be made, and with these intentions i voted in favour. in this case, it is simply a rule to align the expiry of this aid with the entry into force of the new rules, under which a renewal of the derogation may be requested. since the eu has many other priorities, i also thought it right that this proposal should be voted on quickly, without distracting members from other matters, which are much more important for all citizens.
in writing. - since the commission adopted on 28 june 2013 new guidelines on state aid for regional development for the period 2014-2020, which will enter into force on 1 july 2014, the extension of the period of application of decision 2009/831/ec by six months is legitimate, allowing the expiry date of decision 2009/831/ec to coincide with the expiry date of the guidelines currently in force.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the amendment of decision 2004/162/ec as regards its application to mayotte as from 1 january 2014. that decision authorises france to apply until 1 july 2014 exemptions or reductions from the 'maritime duties' tax on certain products which are locally manufactured in the french overseas departments of guadeloupe, guyana, martinique and réunion. the measures contained in the decision are designed to consolidate the industry of the french outermost regions by improving their competitiveness. the reasons for introducing specific measures include the great distance, insularity, difficult climatic and topographical conditions, the occurrence of adverse natural phenomena and economic dependence on certain products. the report therefore seeks to adapt the decision in question to make it applicable to mayotte by authorising the application of a differentiated tax regime for 59 products for which there is local production in mayotte and for which the french authorities have been able to demonstrate the existence of higher costs.
in writing. - i did not intend to support the hübner report on the amendment of council decision 2004/162/ec as regards its application to mayotte as from 1 january 2014. i do not agree with the possibility given to france of applying tax relief to the import of 59 goods produced in this region.
in writing. - mayotte is part of the eu territory but is physically distant, as it is in the indian ocean. as in other cases, i am thinking in particular of the other french overseas territories and the portuguese and dutch islands, there are derogations from the rules on aid and certain taxes to compensate for the logistical difficulties of production in these places. as long as it is a question of supporting local consumption only, given the low volumes, exceptions can be made, and with these intentions i voted in favour. the rapporteur was also asking for the adoption of certain rules which had become necessary since mayotte changed its status from 'overseas region' to 'outermost region', as the old rules would no longer make sense. i voted in favour of the report because i agree with the action taken on the decision and because of the speed of the procedure. this parliament has other priorities and it is right that it should discuss them more thoroughly.
in writing. - i backed this report because this agreement is a good opportunity to strengthen the political dialogue and the economic cooperation between the european community and the republic of indonesia. i also believe that this agreement, as the first of its kind between the eu and asean countries, will open a new era in bilateral relations in that area of the world. i am particularly content that the agreement contains the commitments from both parties to the principles of democracy, good governance and the rule of law.
in writing. - i regard the gomes report analysing the ec-indonesia comprehensive partnership and cooperation agreement as well structured and balanced. that is why i voted for it.
in writing. - i welcome the recommendations of the committee on foreign affairs concerning the conclusion of the framework agreement on comprehensive partnership and cooperation with the republic of indonesia and i vote in favour because i believe that closer cooperation between the european union and indonesia can only bring clear benefits to both sides, both economically and politically and culturally. i believe that this agreement with indonesia can provide a strong incentive to conclude agreements with other asean countries in the future and can open a significant phase of bilateral relations based on shared principles such as democracy, the rule of law and human rights, equality and mutual respect. i believe that the indonesian market offers great investment opportunities for european companies, given the rapid economic growth that the country is experiencing and the strong growth rates of the entire asean bloc. from a strategic point of view, indonesia is also the largest and most influential member of asean, a political, economic and cultural organization that will play an increasing role in asian balances in the future. finally, i am voting in favour of this because i believe that such an agreement will increase the strength and prestige of the european union in the international arena.
in writing. - indonesia is one of the most populous nations in the world, among the largest economies in asia but also among the poorest states in southeast asia. as early as 2009, the eu signed a partnership and cooperation agreement with indonesia, making it the first southeast asian country to have a comprehensive partnership agreement with the eu. the partnership agreement serves to strengthen political and trade relations, citizens' rights, human rights, the fight against crime, culture, tourism and more generally cooperation between the parties. this interim report by mrs gomes excludes the question of readmission of citizens.
in writing. - the gomes report, for which i voted in favour, highlights the importance of the eu-indonesia comprehensive partnership framework agreement, based on cooperation to address global challenges on the basis of common principles such as equality, democracy, good governance, civil society participation and the rule of law.
in writing. - i consider the gomes report analysing the ec-indonesia comprehensive partnership and cooperation agreement to be well structured and free of criticism. for these reasons i have decided to support it with my vote.
in writing. - i vote in favour because i consider the framework agreement on comprehensive partnership and cooperation with indonesia to be quite important, and indeed to be highly appreciated as a whole, given that the agreement is very varied in its articles and covers a number of subjects which the european union takes up whenever it is about to sign a partnership agreement with other countries in the world. indonesia has made considerable progress in recent years towards democratization, economic development and the intensification of bilateral and international agreements. twenty-first century indonesia is the world's fourth most populous country, the third largest democracy, the largest muslim country with millions of followers of other faiths: a country that is growing and taking on more and more credit on the global stage. it is no coincidence that it is the leading member of asean and the country that is growing in importance in the asian regional and international landscape. i am convinced that the agreement will offer great opportunities for joint development for indonesia and the european union and i am confident that the bond will only be strengthened further in the future.
in writing. - the comprehensive partnership and cooperation agreement between the european union and indonesia, which has been in force since 2009, is being implemented and updated on the basis of the recommendations contained in today's vote. indonesia is one of the most populous nations in the world, among the largest economies in asia but also among the poorest states in southeast asia. the partnership agreement serves to strengthen political and trade relations, citizens' rights, human rights, the fight against crime, culture, tourism and more generally cooperation between the parties. this recommendation by mrs gomes excludes the question of readmission of citizens which is dealt with in the text on 're-admission'.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the gomes report analysing the conclusion of the framework agreement on comprehensive partnership and cooperation between the european community and its member states and the republic of indonesia on readmission issues, as i consider it to be balanced and free of particular criticisms.
in writing. - i believe that the adoption of this recommendation is particularly important, because in the case of indonesia we are faced with one of the poorest countries in south-east asia, with a significant surplus of labour and a strong tendency towards immigration, a major transit country for migration to the eu and the asean region. indonesia is the first asean country to sign a framework agreement on comprehensive partnership and cooperation with the eu containing a readmission agreement clause, an essential tool to ensure the effective management of migration flows and to combat irregular immigration. i consider this a very positive element and i am in favour of this agreement coming into force. i think it is reasonable that the rapporteur asks the commission to keep the european parliament regularly informed at all stages of eu readmission agreements, namely the negotiation, conclusion, implementation and ongoing work of the joint readmission committees, the bodies which are responsible for implementing readmission agreements. finally, i hope that in the future the eu and indonesia will develop a full-fledged readmission agreement, so that third-country nationals and stateless persons who are in transit in indonesia and then migrating to the european union are also included in the readmission.
in writing. - migration flows are increasing and the introduction of the readmission clause, whereby each party undertakes to readmit its own nationals in the event of breaches of the pacts, introduced in the partnership agreement, plays a key role in managing these flows and in addressing irregular migration. the rapporteur's position is understandable and acceptable, however, and he calls for attention to be paid to cooperation between the european commission, parliament and the council on readmission issues, but above all for a scrupulous assessment of possible cases of violation of fundamental rights before seeking readmission.
in writing. - the comprehensive partnership and cooperation agreement between the european union and indonesia is the first agreement between asean countries to include a readmission clause. the readmission issues concern the prevention and control of irregular immigration in compliance with international obligations. this clause establishes a reciprocal obligation for the eu and indonesia to readmit their nationals, which implies that they must first be identified by their respective national authorities, who must also verify whether the fundamental rights of the persons concerned are respected and, if not, suspend their readmission.
in writing. - the framework agreement on comprehensive partnership and cooperation (cpc) between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of indonesia, of the other part, is a very important instrument in relations with the asian country, as it aims to strengthen eu-indonesia relations on the basis of the shared principles of equality, mutual respect, mutual benefit, democracy, the rule of law and human rights. the readmission clause is a significant pillar of the eu-indonesia relationship, which was the first asean country to accept a readmission agreement, in order to prevent and control irregular immigration in compliance with international obligations and the principle of non-refoulement. the readmission clause establishes a reciprocal obligation for the eu and indonesia to readmit their nationals, which implies that they must first be identified by their respective national authorities. i agree with the rapporteur that suspension clauses could be introduced in cases of serious violations of fundamental rights.
in writing. - in 2009, the european union and indonesia signed a framework agreement on comprehensive partnership and cooperation which is currently awaiting completion of the ratification procedure by the european union. the readmission clause establishes a reciprocal obligation for the eu and indonesia to readmit their nationals, which means that they must first be identified by their national authorities.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the agreement between the european union and turkey on the readmission of persons illegally staying in turkey, an agreement which comes at the end of a long process of negotiation. turkey is the main transit country for irregular migration in the european union and this agreement represents an important step forward in tackling irregular migration flows and thus in the fight against cross-border crime and human trafficking. the union will thus be able to count on increased border controls. at the same time, turkey will have to establish a border police and consolidate its borders with neighbouring countries.
in writing. - i find the sommer report unbalanced, and i therefore voted against it.
in writing. - i intend to vote in favour of the conclusion of the agreement because i consider it to be of fundamental importance as regards the question of irregular migration flows. the most common route used by migrants and refugees from around the world to enter the european union is the overland transit through turkey to greece. the agreement is comprehensive in that it obliges the parties to readmit their own nationals, third-country nationals without residence permits and stateless persons, while laying down procedural and technical criteria for readmission, and is both agreeable and practical. the agreement would also make it possible to combat crossborder crime, in particular human trafficking, and would be a benefit for greece in particular and for the european union as a whole. finally, i share the rapporteur's view that turkey's attitude to this agreement is far from being proactive. the fact that turkey has not yet ratified it and that it insists on the priority application of the action plan and the consequent visa facilitation by the european union is not constructive. i therefore hope, as does the rapporteur, that the council will take a clear position on turkey and urge it to sign.
in writing. - the readmission agreement would make an important contribution to curbing illegal immigration into the union through the territory of the turkish state, while also allowing for a strengthening of the fight against crossborder crime and in particular human trafficking. i welcome the commission's decision to draw up an action plan on visa liberalisation with strict criteria. i agree with the rapporteur that turkey has not yet decided to ratify the readmission agreement, despite the concession made by the european union, and that it insists on the priority application of the action plan and the consequent visa facilitation, while it is essential that turkey abide by the agreements reached and send a positive signal to the european union by signing the readmission agreement.
in writing. - i found the text of the resolution voted on to be balanced and acceptable, and i therefore supported it.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr casini's report on the amendment of rule 166 of parliament's rules of procedure concerning the final vote and rule 195 (3) concerning the vote in committee. i welcome the rapporteur's amendments on the voting procedures in accordance with rule 167 (2), which provides for a roll-call vote if one quarter of the committee members so request or if it is a single and/or final vote. the final vote on a report drawn up by parliament is by rollcall, using the electronic system, for reasons of transparency and democratic control so that the ep's practices are better aligned with those adopted and now consolidated in the national parliaments of the eu. in doing so, meps will feel more accountable to the electorate and the citizens they represent, since they will have to be held accountable, where necessary, for their actions and choices.
in writing. - the casini report is acceptable and balanced. that is why i voted for it.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this measure, which provides for the amendment of rule 166 and rule 195 (3) of parliament's rules of procedure concerning the final vote and the vote in committee, respectively, in order to promote clarity and completeness in the voting procedure by harmonising the practice used within the european parliament with that already existing in the parliaments of the various member states. i hope that this will have a positive effect on the electorate and the citizens, by increasing the transparency of european procedures, which are very often seen by the latter as distant and superfluous.
i have agreed to this proposal and to some of the amendments tabled by parliament, particularly those relating to the opening up of the market for services connected with rail passenger transport. i want to emphasize three points: focus on strengthening passenger rights, in particular in travel information and ticketing services; to strengthen the provisions governing the relationship between managers and workers through the constraints of collective agreements and, above all, cooperation with trade unions; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of transparency, cooperation and non-discrimination, which are at the heart of european policy for our economy.
in writing. - the opening up of national passenger transport, after that of goods transport and international passenger transport, completes the process of liberalization of the sector. the regret is that it is limited for the time being to high speed, which is already liberalized in italy. italy was the first country in the world to liberalize high-speed rail and has been an example of reforms of rail services in europe for several years. but i do not see the same courage and the same ambition in other member states. in the area of governance of integrated enterprises, efforts should be made to develop flexible systems based on maximum transparency of financial flows and to strengthen the powers of national regulatory authorities. in the future, it would also be desirable to establish a european regulator in the sector to ensure uniform rules and standards for all.
in writing. - the report that we as the ppe have approved on the proposal to establish a single european railway area focuses on the opening of the market for national rail passenger services and the governance of rail infrastructure. the eu's objective must remain to revitalise rail as a reliable, environmentally friendly, cost-effective and attractive means of transport. liberalisation should be seen in this light, as it is necessary to create a more competitive sector with high quality services. on the other hand, gradual market opening implies both the adoption of strict rules on passenger rights in the field of travel information and ticketing and the consolidation of social standards for workers in the sector. at the same time, the protection of the public service obligations of each member state and the safeguarding of the less commercially viable lines (cherry picking) will have to be guaranteed. so, in addition to a more balanced approach between market requirements and public service contracts, the aim of adopting this report is to improve the governance of the railway sector, to strengthen social provisions, to create a global ticketing system to protect passenger rights and to define the role of the european network of infrastructure managers.
in writing. - while i agree with some aspects of the el khadraoui report, i believe that the entry of new players into the italian market could lead to the destabilisation of existing contracts in our country to the detriment of workers. for these reasons i have decided to abstain from voting.
in writing. - as shadow rapporteur, i supported the report because it aims to increase competition in rail transport by gradually increasing the quality, volume and efficiency of passenger transport services. in particular, the report provides: a more balanced approach to market opening and public service contracts; improving governance of the railway sector; establishing a global ticketing system; strengthening social provisions; clarification of the role of the european network of infrastructure managers. although this is a complex report, which affects established situations, i think that the european parliament should have sent a stronger signal. the vote in plenary was unfortunately affected by the divergent national interests and the influence of the large groups. it will therefore be necessary to study the text in greater depth and to supplement it at second reading in order to avoid a fifth package. more courage and political will are also needed to take the steps necessary to achieve a genuine single rail market: the commission has also proposed a number of measures to improve the transparency of governance and to increase liberalisation. the report did not adequately define the independence between the infrastructure manager and the railway undertaking. the commission has already made a number of proposals.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this measure on the establishment of a single european railway area because i believe that we have reached the point where increasing the share of rail transport, compared with other modes of transport, has become an indispensable necessity. this can be achieved by liberalizing the sector, which must be seen as a useful tool in making the railway sector very competitive and with quality services. italy is currently the only country in the world to have competition in the high-speed rail service. i believe that opening up conventional transport to competition is an essential requirement. however, attention must be paid to the fact that european railway integration does not 'load' its costs onto the public budgets of the various member states and consequently on the community. i firmly believe that workers in this sector must be guaranteed protection in terms of strengthening the social standards for them. the legislation on this subject is still insufficient. it is therefore the responsibility of the member states to ensure that it is applied, with the ultimate objective of equal access to existing railway infrastructure.
in writing. - the text concerns the amendment of directive 2012/34/eu establishing a single european railway area on the opening of markets for national rail transport in order to improve the quality of services. in addition, the objective of eliminating conflicts of interest in order to ensure equal access to infrastructure is to be achieved. i am voting for abstention because i think that an increase in the quality of services is possible but at the same time difficult to achieve in our country. it could be a nuisance if not handled properly.
in writing. - the eu's fourth railway package contains six different proposals to recast existing directives to create a single european railway area. the proposals aim to improve the governance rules for the management of railway infrastructure, open up the passenger transport market and ensure the technical and administrative harmonisation of the european union agency for railways. however, a balance needs to be maintained in terms of governance reform to achieve full autonomy between infrastructure managers and railway undertakings.
in writing. - the creation of a single european railway area cannot wait any longer. the share of rail transport in the road transport sector needs to be increased to reduce pollution and road traffic. railways must become a reliable and attractive means of transport throughout europe. the liberalization of the market must serve to revive the whole sector, making it more competitive and providing services of ever higher quality.
in writing. - the overall objective of the commission's proposal is obviously welcome, as the share of rail transport in relation to other modes of transport needs to be increased and the eu should have the ambition to make rail transport a reliable and attractive means of transport again. i agree with the rapporteur that liberalisation should be a balanced and gradual approach, taking into account the heterogeneity of networks in terms of size, density and variety of organisational structures in the member states. governance of the sector also needs to be improved by strengthening the regulatory body through the power to give prior approval to the charges set by the infrastructure manager, if it is part of an integrated undertaking. turning to passenger rights, i agree that regulation no 1370/2007 is too weak to have a significant impact on the development of a comprehensive ticketing system across the eu. finally, on the social side, the greater opening of the market must not affect the rights of railway staff and railway undertakings should continue to comply with all existing rules on social and working conditions.
in writing. - the obligation for the regions to tender for public service contracts is an essential precondition for an open and liberalised sector. the commission proposal envisaged such an obligation from 2019 or 2022, but the text was distorted by the tran committee, which continued to leave room for direct reliance hypotheses even after 2022. i very much doubt that this will lead to a single european railway system. i think it is necessary to push for the introduction of a compulsory tendering procedure, introducing a principle of reciprocity for the transitional period, which would protect firms operating in markets that are already open as against those that continue to operate under conditions of legal monopoly.
in writing. - in line with the ppe, i voted in favour of mr grosch's report on national rail passenger services, given the need to encourage european citizens to use rail transport as a convenient and reliable means of transport. although aspects such as competition play a crucial role, they must be part of a strategic framework aimed at a gradual, albeit substantial, increase in passenger transport services in terms of quality and efficiency. i also welcome some of the amendments suggested by the rapporteur on direct award and tendering procedures and on public service contracts for rail passenger transport. finally, the role of the competent authorities will be essential in defining the objectives and in developing specific criteria with regard to the quality standards to be included in the calls for tenders, giving greater prominence to the concept of sustainability.
in writing. - while i agree with some aspects of the grosch report, i believe that the entry of new players into the italian market could lead to the destabilisation of contracts currently in force in our country to the detriment of workers. for these reasons i have decided to abstain from voting.
in writing. - in its treatment of the commission proposal, the report stresses a balanced approach which takes into account the incentive for effective liberalization, the rights of users, the prevention of social dumping to the detriment of employees and the transparency and accountability of the national authorities. the difficulty of finding a balance between the different realities of 28 national markets must be accepted if we are to proceed with this dossier. as an italian i can only express a favourable vote and call on the commission to maintain a firm line against the resistance of the old monopolies. in my country, the split of the service and network management companies has not led to a truly liberalized system. on the contrary, there remains a creeping monopoly regime subsidized at the expense of the taxpayer (particularly in regional transport) which hardly promotes efficiency and quality of service. i therefore agree with the suggestion that direct award should be limited as far as possible and that a flexible system of tendering should be promoted, and i hope that the measures to avoid overcompensation and to facilitate access to the services market for small operators will be closely monitored in their application by the member states. the commission will also have to ensure effective reciprocity and prevent cherry-picking.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the regulation because it provides for the removal of many of the obstacles which hamper the competitiveness of rail transport in europe. the aim of the proposal is to increase the share of rail transport in comparison with other modes of transport, thus making rail a reliable means of transport, a competitive sector and a high-quality service. in particular, it aims to guarantee national operators the freedom to provide passenger transport services throughout europe, to ensure the transparency of financial flows between the infrastructure manager and the network, to establish harmonised european technical standards and to improve public service contracts by defining mandatory efficiency criteria. the proposal also calls on the national safety authorities to cooperate more closely with the european railway agency. this is a generally positive report, considering that 90% of the sector is governed by national rules. however, the decisive step towards greater liberalisation and transparency has not been taken. the deadline for the transition from the current direct award system, albeit subject to certain conditions, to a public tender procedure has not been adequately defined.
in writing. - i am very concerned about rail transport, which is still a very weak area in the various member states. the data show that only 7% of passenger transport in the eu is currently carried by rail. i have decided to vote in favour of the measure which provides for investments to be made in the sector to ensure efficiency and functionality for direct users. greater efforts will have to be made towards sustainable transport, which will not only have a positive impact on the environment but will also have a positive impact on the growth and employment of the areas concerned. in most countries, public passenger transport services cannot be provided on a commercial basis but are provided through public service contracts. the central element of this proposal is therefore to eliminate the possibility of directly awarding contracts for the carriage of passengers by rail through tendering procedures, which is provided for in article 5 (6) of regulation (ec) no 1370/2007 currently in force, and to emphasise how this will have consequences for other modes of transport. the introduction of a principle of reciprocity may be one of the solutions to the problem and will make it possible to protect undertakings operating in open markets against competitors from other member states operating in situations of legal monopoly.
in writing. - the report concerns the amendment of regulation (ec) no 1370/2007 on the opening of the market for national passenger transport services by rail. the aim is to encourage competition in order to improve the quality of passenger services. i shall abstain because, although i share the aim, i think that italy would have difficulty in implementing policies to support the process of opening up the market. i think that it could be in a position of discomfort and incapacity under the weight of liberalization.
in writing. - the six initiatives on the fourth european railway package present important proposals, including the proposal for a regulation on the opening of the market for national rail passenger services. the main objective of mr grosch's report is to open up the rail transport services market further to facilitate the movement of passengers and the exchange of goods at european level. railway undertakings operating in several markets will have to apply for specific safety certifications in order to ensure safety and balance in the management of both national and european transport.
in writing. - parliament today approved new rules to ensure greater competition in the railway sector with the aim of providing better rail services to passengers. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet its obligations under the treaty. new and small operators would have easier access to railway infrastructure and the complex authorisation procedures for putting trains on the track would be simplified, while public service operators, selected by the authorities, would be obliged to ensure working conditions for staff in accordance with binding national, regional or local social rules and rules on the transfer of workers in the event of a change of operator. the proposed rules also aim to create opportunities for new operators to provide services and to ensure equal access to infrastructure for all operators, while safeguarding the key role of public service contracts.
in writing. - i agree with the rapporteur that the threshold expressed in train-kilometres could be changed in the case of direct award in order to make it more realistic to award direct public service contracts in the field of rail passenger transport which are very small. in addition, the decision to award a direct contract should be accompanied by a justification, in order to allow other interested operators to scrutinise it and, where appropriate, to object in a timely manner. i support the weight given to the competent authorities, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity. they should be responsible for preparing a local transport plan and for assessing the services needed for public passenger transport, as well as for defining public service obligations. the competent authorities are in the best position to assess which public service obligations should be defined on the spot, for which sections free access should be allowed and for which sections free access should instead be restricted by the award of a public service contract.
in writing. - the commission states that there are over 11,000 national technical rules governing railway operations in europe, issued by 27 national authorities which are totally different in terms of legal status, powers, competences, resources and training of staff. these numbers tell us two things: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem. the proposal to reduce the time taken for companies to enter the market and the time and costs involved in the certification of rolling stock is therefore welcome. this will be achieved by strengthening the european railway agency, which will become a single point of contact and issue the 'european vehicle passport', bringing about uniformity in decision-making and reducing unacceptable bureaucratic labyrinths.
in writing. - the report we voted on as the ppe group deals with the interoperability of the rail system as a sine qua non for creating a stronger, more transparent and safer rail transport system, as proposed by the commission. in order to complete the project of the single european transport area, the member states will first have to implement the third railway package correctly and in a reasonable time frame before they can proceed with the fourth. i therefore support the ideas put forward by the rapporteur on strengthening the powers of the tea as a single point of contact, on improving legal and regulatory certainty to encourage investment and entrepreneurship and, finally, on creating a european register to which national agencies will transmit their data over a period of two years. the aim will not only be to diversify and improve the offer for users, but also to provide more opportunities for entrepreneurs. at the same time, it will also be possible to reduce co2 emissions by 2050 and increase the growth potential of a sector in which european producers are world leaders.
in writing. - the barandica report, which analyses the interoperability of the eu rail system, is balanced and acceptable. i think it would be desirable to centralize the technical certification of undertakings and the authorization to market vehicles. this would lead to the removal of technical barriers, creating a genuine single rail market and reducing costs for industry and operators.
in writing. - the rapporteur highlighted the economic potential of interoperability in the current fragmentation scenario. i would add that it is strange to think that, while the principle of free movement of persons within the european area has been in force for over 20 years, the necessary practical prerequisite of interoperability has not been considered. we have a railway system that is at the crossroads between the 21st and the 19th centuries, in which it is virtually impossible to develop operators on a continental scale capable of dealing with a massive and disorderly technical regulation. i therefore welcome the report because, at its core, it should set in motion processes of harmonisation of operating, safety and entry standards in a climate of collaboration with the national authorities, through the european railway agency. this process, duly extended to the collateral areas of the relationship with the user for example in ticketing, crm and with industrial chains, is likely to further strengthen and qualify the offer of european companies on the global market in the field of railway technologies, design and operation.
in writing. - recent studies have shown that by 2050 more than half of all passenger transport will be by rail. in this respect, achieving full interoperability in the sector must be of paramount importance. the data show that rail transport now accounts for more than eight billion journeys a year, covering about 10% of goods, with a revenue balance of 13 billion, 73 billion in revenue and 800 000 jobs. i have expressed my opinion in favour of interoperability because it will bring benefits to all rail transport by optimising time and costs. the heavy burdens on the railway industry are in fact a brake on its development. eliminating them will improve the service to users and make this industry an opportunity for entrepreneurs to invest in it, allowing for the creation of new jobs. the interconnection of rail networks will also facilitate and improve rail transport not only within and between individual member states but also with neighbouring third countries, facilitating the movement of people as provided for by one of the pillars on which the european union is founded.
in writing. - the content of the report concerns the amendment of directive 2008/57/ec on the interoperability of the eu rail system. i am voting in favour because i share the aim of breaking down administrative and technical barriers by implementing common safety initiatives and the resulting cost reductions.
in writing. - in line with my country's position on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the interoperability of the eu rail system, i voted in favour of the text by mr bilbao barandica. the revision of existing legislation adapts the interoperability of the rail system to today's technological and administrative developments. precautionary actions are improved, decisions to establish rail routes are facilitated, and the identification of conventional and high-speed rail systems, both for passengers and for freight, is improved.
in writing. - i agree with the rapporteur in sharing the commission's view that the third package must be transposed in all the member states in order to achieve the fourth package. i also share the desire to strengthen the afe's capacity and expertise as a one-stop shop and to facilitate the development of ertms. i support the rapporteur's decision to strengthen transparency and legal certainty in the sector in order to promote investment and entrepreneurship in the sector. the creation of a european vehicle registration register is also welcome.
in writing. - insurance products are extraordinarily complex for consumers who are unfamiliar with contracts and therefore risk being vulnerable if clear and fair rules are not followed by intermediaries. for these reasons i voted in favour of the langen report, which is an important reference point for the protection of european consumers in the field of insurance intermediation.
in writing. - rail transport is the safest way of moving around within our countries. but it is vital to keep our guard up and to keep working to make our trains faster and safer. the proposal for a 'single safety certificate' issued by the european railway agency was already contained in the 2004 directive, but it is clear that this principle needs to be strengthened, or rather finally made operational. there is a need for greater clarity in governance, reducing overlapping competences or margins of ambiguity in the interpretation of rules.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on railway safety because i believe that rail transport is still the most convenient and safe way of travelling within the eu. improving safety means making an effort to avoid accidents which, in addition to causing serious human losses, involve enormous economic damage and environmental impact. the three railway packages approved by the eu have brought about profound changes in the railway sector and now the whole system needs to be adapted to the new requirements, making it more integrated, interconnected and safe. in a more complex context than in the past, railway safety must therefore also be ensured by legislation which takes account of recent developments and the increased complexity of interaction between all the parties involved: authorities, undertakings, infrastructure managers and the railway sector itself. in this respect, it will be necessary, for example, to provide for information, management and emergency procedures which are appropriate and up to date.
in writing. - the cramer report is balanced and acceptable. i think it would be desirable to centralize the technical certification of undertakings and the authorization to market vehicles. this would lead to the removal of technical barriers, creating a genuine single rail market and reducing costs for industry and operators.
in writing. - rail safety is a crucial issue today, one which the eu cannot ignore. as an italian member of parliament, i am particularly concerned about the situation of many of the railway lines on the peninsula. progress has been made in this regard in recent decades, with the average number of deaths per year falling by up to a quarter since the 1970s. but i am convinced that we must not stop there. i voted in favour of this measure to revise directive 2004/49/ec in order to achieve a continuous improvement in railway safety in the union, while reducing costs for industry and operators. the process must also be ensured by the interaction of various actors, such as companies, infrastructure managers and safety authorities, who must operate in a context of ad hoc rules, as already provided for by the directive itself. the continuing improvement in safety will benefit not only passengers and employees but also, of course, users of level crossings and residents of areas adjacent to railway lines, which can be the scene of unpleasant events, as has unfortunately happened in recent years.
in writing. - the amendment of directive 2004/49/ec on railway safety to a 'single safety certificate'. i am voting in favour of this report because i think it is a positive one.
in writing. - the new eu rail safety system sets out the guidelines within which national rail safety authorities (nsas) can operate. first of all, there is an extension of the tasks relating to the supervision and maintenance of railway networks. the national safety authority will have to play a more monitoring role on railway infrastructure managers and railway networks in general. in addition, the new regulation on the european railway agency provides for the independence of the body to improve its efficiency in monitoring infrastructure and in resolving administrative disputes.
in writing. - i agree with the report presented, which sets out some of the most important aspects of the regulation of the new era, which will have to play a more decisive role in the european railway system, with the issuing of safety certificates and vehicle authorizations, the centralisation of services hitherto provided at national level, and a heterogeneity in the rates and quality of services provided. i supported the amendments to regulation (ec) no 1370/2007 in favour of a tendering obligation for the award of regional rail services and to provide for a principle of reciprocity during the transitional period. i believe that uniform legislation throughout europe is needed, which would make it compulsory, from a certain date, to have tendering procedures in all the member states for the award of rail transport services covered by public service obligations.
in writing. - although rail transport is the safest mode of transport in the european union and rail accidents are rare, they can have disastrous consequences for human life, the environment and the reputation of rail transport as a safer mode of transport. the proposed amendments are largely welcome, particularly as they aim to strengthen the european dimension of the safety certificate, clarify certain parts of the text and improve the predictability of procedures, based on a number of relevant principles such as the need to consolidate the role of the era as the sole authority issuing 'single safety certificates', the clarification of the responsibilities of the various actors, the gradual harmonisation of operational and safety standards, and the importance of the cross-border dimension.
in writing. - railway safety depends on the interaction of all the parties concerned, i.e. undertakings, infrastructure managers, railway industry representatives and safety authorities. it is therefore necessary that safety legislation takes account of these developments and establishes appropriate information, management and emergency procedures and tools.
in writing. - the european railway agency was set up seven years ago and has been fully operational for some time. increasing its powers in order to reduce arbitrariness and heterogeneity in the management of european rail systems is necessary if we are to make this fourth railway package truly impactful. it is essential, however, that its gradual replacement by national authorities is not a directorial, hard-and-fast centralisation operation at the expense of subsidiarity. so be careful which skills you focus on and what benefits this focus will bring. the guiding criteria should be consistency in the issuing of authorisations and certifications, administrative simplification and cost reduction for businesses, and transparency in the governance of the system.
in writing. - the zīle report aims to strengthen the role and the operation of the european railway agency (era) as the harmonisation body responsible for gradually replacing safety and interoperability requirements with common technical specifications and safety methods. i agree with the rapporteur that the existing legislation should be revised in any case in order to create a more competitive, dynamic and business-friendly railway market. the agency will also act as a single point of contact for the issuing of authorisations and certificates, facilitating and streamlining bureaucratic procedures, while increasing the level of quality of services offered to passengers and reducing their costs. the new centralised ten system would have the dual advantage of ensuring better conditions for economic activity and at the same time ensuring good competitive opportunities between all the main players in the railway market. i therefore welcome the amendments proposed by the rapporteur on the responsibility of the agency, the language regime, the promotion of mutual access to the railway market of third countries and the applicant's choice regarding vehicle authorizations and safety certification.
in writing. - i have strongly supported the zīle report analysing the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the european union agency for railways, as i believe that this agency can play a key role in breaking down the technical barriers which are often used by some member states as a pretext to compete with foreign companies.
in writing. - the objective of making the rail system in the union more competitive, efficient and functional is an essential part of the creation of a single european railway area. in order to achieve this objective, the proper functioning of the european railway agency, established by regulation (ec) no 881/2004, is essential. the main objective of the institution is to promote the creation of a european railway area without frontiers and, consequently, to contribute to the revival of the sector. i think, however, that this regulation needs to be replaced at the moment, and i have therefore voted in favour of this proposal. the replacement of the regulation will mean an extension of the powers of the agency, which will have competence in the field of vehicle authorizations and safety certificates. this will improve the competitiveness of the sector. the agency will also have to monitor the observance of the different national railway standards and the activity of the national authorities working in the field of railway interoperability and safety, with the ultimate aim of harmonising them. the agency will also have to facilitate reciprocity between access by third countries to the union market and access by european companies to third country markets. only by doing so will it be able to contribute to the creation of a shared railway system.
in writing. - the text concerns the proposal for a regulation on the european union agency for railways repealing regulation (ec) no 881/2004. the aim is to give the agency new powers and tasks in order to improve its internal structure and decision-making processes. the final aim is to propose a new regulation. the report has several positive aspects, including greater powers in relation to national rules and the simplification of existing provisions. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. - with reference to the european union's fourth railway package, one of the main changes concerns the eu railway agency. this agency (european railway agency) will be the sole control body of the european rail system. it will be responsible for issuing the necessary certificates to railway undertakings in line with the national transport safety authorities. the agency will also have the task of harmonising technical interoperability and ensuring the safety of rail networks. having received the approval of the member states as the sole certification and control body, the agency's role will be particularly important in the single rail system of the union.
in writing. - i agree with the rapporteur that a better and more centralised system for the issuing of authorisations and certificates is needed, creating better conditions for economic activity and competitive opportunities for all market players and thus ensuring better quality and cheaper services for end users. i agree with the rapporteur that the new system must ensure that the procedures are beneficial to all railway operators. operators operating in a more limited area should have the possibility to apply to the agency or to the national safety authority, in particular if they operate in only one member state. as regards the agency's liability, it should be made clear that it has full responsibility for the authorisations and certificates it issues. in addition, as regards the language arrangements, the applicant should be able to communicate with the agency in the language of his or her choice, provided that it is one of the official languages of the union.
i supported the commission's proposal on the need to repeal regulation (eec) no 1192 of 1969 on the standardisation of the accounts of railway undertakings. it is a regulation adopted over 40 years ago, in an ice age, when railway budgets were still part of the national budgets and it was necessary to make up for losses and to ensure that there was an integration of pension and insurance provisions or to compensate for those infrastructure measures that were being put in place by companies which in fact represented the member states themselves. today that regulation is obsolete and represents a form of circumvention of the state aid and unlawful state aid system. for this reason they cannot be extended to all other companies and for this reason they should be repealed.
in writing. - the report we approved as a ppe focuses on the normalisation of the accounts of railway undertakings. in view of the still fragile economic situation and the existence of railway systems still underfunded in some member states, it seems premature to repeal regulation (eec) no 1192/69 directly without having duly assessed the impact of the legislation currently in force. a compensation mechanism for the railway sector for certain compulsory payments under national law could remain a viable solution before introducing completely different legislation ex novo. therefore, the best scenario seems to be to postpone the repeal decision and ask the commission, after further analysis, to amend the existing regulation where necessary (for example by extending such compensation to all railway undertakings), adapting it to the current legal framework.
in writing. - i find the kohlíček report to be agreeable and balanced. i believe that the legislation currently in force on the normalisation of the accounts of railway undertakings should be amended in order to eliminate the current market distortion situation which allows access to compensation mechanisms to a limited number of railway undertakings operating in europe. for the reasons stated above, i intend to support the text with my vote.
in writing. - the adoption of the fourth railway package entails the repeal of the rules contained in regulation (eec) no 1192/69 on common rules for the normalisation of the accounts of railway undertakings. these rules concern the possibility for member states to compensate railway undertakings for the payment of obligations which undertakings in other transport sectors are not required to bear, such as special payments in the event of accidents at work or pensions for workers claiming early retirement for reasons connected with arduous work. i voted in favour of this proposal for repeal because the needs of the sector have changed and an update is most necessary. the main reason for this was that railway companies not included in the list were discriminated against against those included in the list. secondly, it has been noted that there has been little use of the regulation by the member states. in this sense, the repeal of the regulation by the commission is also necessary in view of future increased employment in the union.
in writing. - the report concerns the proposal for a regulation repealing council regulation (eec) no 1192/69 on common rules for the standardization of the accounts of railway undertakings. i am voting in favour of the text because i believe that the repeal of the regulation is indispensable. in 1969 (the year of the enactment) the budgets of the railways were included in the state budgets and the state had to guarantee pension or insurance provisions, whereas today they are no longer required or enforceable by the state budget funds.
in writing. - the standardisation of railway accounts is part of the six-proposal package for the single eu railway system. the main objective is to have common rules for the standardisation of the accounts of railway undertakings under the control of a single body, the european railway agency. the new governance of the european rail system will ensure greater safety in rail transport through the specialised control body, market opening through the facilitation of passenger and freight transport and interoperability of the eu rail system between the competent national authorities and the european union agency.
in writing. - i agree with the rapporteur in postponing the decision on repeal and asking the commission, after a more thorough analysis, to amend the existing regulation and adapt it to the current legal framework, as before deciding to repeal the regulation it is necessary to assess the impact of the provisions of the new directive 2012/34/eu on the railway sector which entered into force in november 2012. it would be premature to repeal the regulation directly, as in the current economic climate it may be necessary to maintain the possibility of providing for compensation to the railway sector for certain payments which are mandatory under national law and which in other modes of transport do not need to be supported.
in writing. - the kohliček report, for which i voted in favour, is part of the fourth railway package. in this context, the commission proposes to repeal regulation (eec) no 1192/69 on common rules for the normalisation of the accounts of railway undertakings. this regulation allows member states to compensate railway undertakings for the payment of obligations which undertakings operating in other transport sectors do not have to bear for various reasons.
i have worked in committee on this dossier on the reporting of certain civil aviation events. this is a very sensitive issue. indeed, countless academic studies show that safeguards to protect the air passenger transport system become more effective and widespread if even the slightest deficiency in the system is highlighted. but to do this we must proceed through a system of reporting which starts with the so-called front-line operator, that is the flight attendant, but this must not be a subject who can then be subject to persecution. for this reason, the regulation adopted is a step in the right direction, promoting a culture of fairness, the just culture, which encourages operators to provide safety information, without however exempting them from their natural responsibilities, which are only in the case of gross negligence or when there are manifest and serious intentional non-compliance with the duty of care which constitutes the minimum level of aviation safety.
in writing. - in view of the forecasts for a significant increase in air traffic growth over the next 20 years, it is appropriate to develop legislation to strengthen aviation safety. the importance of an efficient accident prevention system, such as the one proposed, which makes it possible, through analysis and rapid exchange of information, to identify any shortcomings and to take preventive or corrective measures rapidly, should be emphasized. in order to prevent further accidents and to protect the interests of transport safety, it is appropriate to provide for the possibility for member states and the european aviation safety agency (easa) to exchange the information collected through an anonymous and secure database such as the european central repository (ecr).
in writing. - i share the views expressed in the de veyrac report on a proposal for a regulation on the reporting of certain civil aviation incidents. i believe that to improve safety in this sector, it is necessary to set up an anonymous reporting system which will make it possible to trace the causes of any accidents and malfunctions.
in writing. - i think it is important that the rapporteur has made an effort in her draft legislative resolution on the subject of the prevention of aviation safety and the regulation of the collection and analysis of incidents. i voted in favour because i believe that infrastructure and its development consolidate european integration and that the safety of the people who benefit most from it must be protected and strengthened. i welcome the request to encourage the rapid exchange of information available to the member states and the european aviation safety association through the creation of the european central repository. the creation of a 'common european risk classification system' will also bring overall benefits: the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information it receives. i believe that, as the rapporteur rightly calls for, a 'culture of fairness' must be established and that the decision to extend whistleblower protection to everyone involved in the incident reported and not just to the whistleblower will help to strengthen the confidence of aviation employees in the whistleblowing industry. finally, i particularly agree with the call to protect the confidentiality and anonymity of employees, for example by limiting the number of experts who will have access to personal data.
in writing. - more than 820 million italians travelled by air in 2011 and this figure is expected to double by 2030. in terms of aviation safety, europe has nothing to learn, of course, but there is always room for improvement. this proposal will enable the eu to consolidate its role as a world leader. the sharing of information, which will enable states to exercise greater control over their airspace, will also benefit the general public, who will be able to assess the situation with greater awareness through the publication of annual reviews.
in writing. - in view of the exceptional increase in air traffic by 2030, action is needed today to strengthen air safety prevention systems. we must not allow this increase to have a negative impact on the frequency of air accidents.
in writing. - air traffic is expected to increase significantly by 2030, which means that air safety prevention systems need to be strengthened, in particular by improving the collection and analysis of occurrences. the commission proposal aims to strengthen and deepen the proactive system for accident prevention, in particular by rapid exchange of information. i agree with the rapporteur that the rules on confidentiality and respect for the anonymity of employees must be strengthened, for example by limiting the number of experts who have access to personal data. in addition, in order to prevent further incidents, member states and easa should be able to better exchange information collected in an anonymous and secure database, namely the european central repository (ecr). the easa must play a central coordinating role in the european transnational network, in order to harmonise and improve action at european level. the last point i would like to make is that the whole aviation sector should be brought within the scope of the regulation, but in a way that is proportionate to the sector of activity and the complexity of the aircraft, especially light aircraft.
in writing. - the regulation discussed in mr de veyrac's report establishes a common european risk classification system to improve the quality of the data collected and ensure that they are readable by all the competent authorities. once this system is in place, member states and easa will be able to classify events according to the same criteria before sharing them in the cef. organisations will also be free to use the internal risk classification system they consider most appropriate.
in writing. - i hope that the ecall service will be fully operational by 1 october 2015. it is obvious that this deadline will require a greater effort on the part of the motor industry, but at the same time it will bring considerable improvements to the road safety sector for the benefit of us citizens. the advantages are numerous: reduction of 1 to 10% of road accidents, reduction of 2 to 15% of the severity of injuries resulting from accidents, reduction of congestion costs resulting from road accidents and facilitation of rescue services. i think it is worth pointing out that safety systems such as this are in no way a substitute for road safety education, especially among young people, who need to know the road traffic code and what behaviour to adopt based on the context in which they move (urban and extra-urban).
in writing. - i think it is an important step for road safety to establish a regulatory system for the type approval of the ecall system which, by operating automatically, should make it possible to improve considerably the assistance to motorists involved in road accidents. that is why i have voted in favour of the sehnalova report.
in writing. - i followed the proposal for a regulation in the committee on the internal market and consumer protection and hosted a lunch on this subject in parliament, which the rapporteur also attended, to discuss how this new safety device will work in practice. the european commission has done a very good job in presenting this package (in addition to this regulation there is also a directive which the european parliament adopted on the same date) and i am very pleased with the compromise reached between the political forces, for which i voted. i regret the problem of the conflict of attribution, which created some procedural friction, but which has not diminished the validity of the work done.
in writing. - i vote in favour of the development of the ecall in-vehicle system. this technology is a major step forward in reducing road accidents and their consequences when they occur, a subject which we have been tackling with strength and determination for years now, both in terms of the tragic side in terms of loss of life and injuries suffered by the injured, and in terms of the economic side which weighs on society and corresponds to about 130 billion euros a year. a key element in the field of road accidents is the timing of rescue operations, i.e. the time it takes to reach the scene, which in some cases becomes literally "vital". the ecall system uses the 112 telephone number to automatically alert the emergency services and is able to indicate the exact location of the accident, thus facilitating and speeding up rescue operations. the devices will have to be installed on all new models of cars and light vans by october 2015.
in writing. - the report concerns the proposal for a regulation on the development of the ecall in-vehicle system. the aim of this legislative proposal is to provide an 'ecall' system on all motor vehicles, which automatically alerts emergency services in the event of an accident (by calling the telephone number 112). the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem.
in writing. - according to the european commission, in 2012 there were approximately 28 000 deaths and over 1.5 million injuries due to road accidents in the union. these are dramatic numbers, causing pain, suffering and bereavement for many individuals and families. the death toll on our roads is still too high, despite constant police checks and the increasingly high safety standards of our vehicles. the ecall system, which we voted on today in two different reports, is one of these new technological aids and is automatically activated as soon as the on-board sensors detect a serious accident. once activated, the system calls the european emergency number 112, establishes a telephone link with the emergency call handling centre and sends details of the accident to the emergency services, including the time of the accident, the exact position of the vehicle involved and the direction of travel. the ecall system can also be activated manually by pressing a button in the vehicle, for example by a witness to a major accident. this should save considerable time in the field of intervention, and we know how important this is in limiting the tragic consequences of accidents.
in writing. - i believe that the public eu-wide ecall service, based on the 112 emergency number, and private emergency call services can coexist, provided that the necessary measures are taken to ensure continuity in the provision of the service to consumers. the commission has already proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal. i also agree with the rapporteur that the ecall system must be tested periodically to ensure that it is functional throughout the life of the vehicle.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mrs sehnalová, which is part of a series of acts aimed at ensuring the deployment of the ecall in-vehicle system by 1 october 2015. the proposal calls for the construction of new vehicles which will enable emergency services to be automatically called in the event of an accident. the system will also be able to be started manually.
in writing. - i agree with the langen report which analyses the proposal for a directive on insurance intermediation. i believe that we have a duty to protect consumers to the fullest extent possible in this area too, and also by providing them with more information than they currently have access to.
in writing. - i welcome the report on the proposal for a directive on insurance intermediation because i believe that this will ensure a level playing field between all those involved in the sale of insurance products and that the protection of insured persons will be strengthened. i consider this revised directive to be an effective improvement in the regulation of the retail insurance market. the financial turmoil of recent years, although dealt with with extreme competence by president draghi, shows that consumers must be protected more, through close cooperation of the european institutions. i therefore welcome the european parliament's proposal to strengthen the protection of insured persons and to improve the sales practices of various insurance products. i also share the other objectives of the proposal for a directive, namely the management and mitigation of conflicts of interest, the increased harmonisation of the administrative sanctions and measures provided for in the event of infringement of the provisions of the current directive, and the simplification and convergence of procedures for crossborder access to insurance markets throughout the european union. finally, i welcome the directive to improve the relevance and objectivity of advice and the fact that it will regulate sales practices which will cover all insurance products. for these reasons, i vote in favour.
in writing. - this morning, in the plenary session of the european parliament, i expressed my favourable opinion on the report by mr langen on the updating of community rules on information and advice given by insurance salesmen, since it counters the widespread phenomenon of information asymmetries to the detriment of citizens in the conclusion of insurance contracts. before signing a contract, information such as the type of insurance, the obligations arising from it, the insured and excluded risks, the means of payment and insurance premiums should be provided, as well as the total cost of the contract and the contact details of the insurance company. all insurance distributors should be registered with the competent authority in their member state. in addition, in order to further protect the rights of purchasers, insurance companies should undertake to provide cover of at least eur 1 250 000 in cases of professional negligence and to have a permanent financial capacity of 4% of the sum of all annual premiums received, in order to be able to pay a premium at all times. finally, customers should always be able to purchase the various components of an insurance package together or separately according to their needs and receive any useful information for each individual component.
in writing. - the financial crisis has undermined consumer confidence in banking and insurance products. insurance intermediaries are a valuable resource for the industry, providing in-depth knowledge that consumers now rely on. the commission's recast proposal is a good starting point for ensuring the protection of consumers, who are extremely vulnerable in this area. in particular, legal clarity is needed and i agree with the rapporteur that the concepts of tied sales and aggregate sales, as well as the rules on remuneration, need to be clarified. in addition, they agree with the clarification of the geographical scope in order to allow sales between registered intermediaries within the single market and their external counterparts. finally, the scope of the directive should be extended so that more stringent obligations can be imposed on price comparison websites that have been aligned with intermediaries operating in non-virtual venues.
it is of great importance to support member states' efforts to improve the sustainability of national health systems by leveraging other available skills and by leveraging the exchange of good practice. developing shared solutions and common guidelines to improve the quality of health and patient safety and to promote the adoption of good practices for effective prevention measures, not only in terms of cost, can help european societies and european society to make strides in the quality of health services and to move towards satisfactory average standards even in those specific countries or sectors that are not performing as well today. i welcome the increase in the financial resources available for the programme, not only compared to the 2007-13 budget but also compared to the european commission's initial proposal. the decision to increase the union's financial contribution to the various actions to be defined and then approved is also positive, given the budgetary difficulties of the member states.
in writing. - the health for growth programme will be used to achieve some of the objectives of the 2020 strategy, such as health innovation and sustainability, improving the health of european citizens and protecting them from cross-border threats. the new financial envelope of eur 446 million for the period 2014-2020 should also serve to respond to the growing demand for care generated by the demographic ageing of the european population, which is expected to reach 40% by 2030, and to provide quality care for future generations. for example, prevention and information campaigns could be launched that should involve all policy makers to disseminate strategies to promote virtuous behaviours to accompany the elderly population to a healthy and active ageing, improve access to health services, encourage telemedicine and train medical and paramedical staff on the specific needs of the elderly.
in writing. - the report we as the epp have approved focuses on the 'health for growth' programme, which is part of the europe 2020 strategy and has a substantial budget. the aim of this programme is to encourage research and innovation in health care, improving the quality of services offered to citizens and, consequently, their well-being. in my view, the health sector must not be solely responsible for therapeutic progress as such, but must be a pillar of the important european economy and a high-tech industry. i welcome the programme's objectives in terms of prevention and identification of risk factors, including poor dietary habits and sedentary lifestyle, and in terms of protecting the health of the individual, especially the elderly, with the consequent reduction of medical and social costs for national health systems. i also think it is reasonable to focus more on neurodegenerative diseases and other forms of dementia which, unfortunately, continue to have the greatest human impact (for the patient and those who care for him), health, economic and social impact. i therefore expect the programme to take an integrated approach which will encourage research into age-related diseases.
in writing. - the grossetête report analysing the eu's third multiannual action programme on health (2014-2020) is balanced and free of criticism, which is why i voted in favour of it.
in writing. - ensuring a high level of protection of human health is a principle enshrined in article 168 of the lisbon treaty and article 35 of the eu charter of fundamental rights. the union must therefore ensure that health is perceived as an essential value by complementing national policies in this field. the commission shall, by means of implementing acts, lay down the rules for the application of this regulation and the rules for the application of the delegated and implementing acts referred to in article 5 of regulation (eu) no 1290/2013. i voted in favour of this measure because i believe that such a programme can stimulate a sector, the health sector, which can be compared with that of high-technology industry. increasing the potential and resources of this sector will create the conditions for the creation of new jobs, a substantial proportion of which will be for graduates, and will also make it possible to anticipate the consequences of the constant ageing of the population by means of ad hoc jobs such as home care. preventing disease, as provided for in the third of the four objectives, is a vital link in view of the fact that having a 'healthy' population means increasing its productivity and international competitiveness.
in writing. - the report concerns the establishment of the health for growth programme, the third multiannual eu action programme on health for the period 2014-2020. the objectives are to prevent disease, promote healthy vine styles, improve access to health care, etc. i am voting in favour of the text because it is indispensable and useful to the citizens of the member states.
in writing. - while scientific progress in the medical field opens the way to the detection of new diseases, the bureaucracy of the states is not keeping up, retaining complex and outdated recognition procedures. this situation constitutes a clear violation of the right to health and care and in fact discriminates against persons suffering from non-codified diseases, who are not guaranteed access to the same social protection schemes as those provided for citizens suffering from listed rare diseases. the european parliament voted on the third multiannual eu action programme on health, which calls on member states to give more support to patients with rare diseases so that they can benefit from cross-border healthcare, and to promote european coordination on research, prevention and treatment of rare diseases, including through the definition of common criteria for inclusion in national and regional lists. i believe that a pan-european approach and close coordination between the various member states can make an effective contribution to improving the conditions of patients suffering from rare diseases not yet codified, including by streamlining the recognition process.
in writing. - with today's vote, this programme will be able to use its overall financial allocation of €446 million until 2020 to achieve the main objectives of european health and its citizens. national authorities, international organisations and non-governmental bodies will have to make the best use of these resources to demonstrate that even in a period of economic crisis, health is not synonymous with a deficit but an opportunity to revive highly skilled employment in health protection.
in writing. - the health action programme aims to avoid duplication and to make the best use of scarce financial resources by concentrating on a limited number of priority objectives. i agree with the rapporteur that the allocation of the budget between the four objectives of the programme must not be static, as it could limit the scope of certain projects. with regard to prevention, it is necessary to be able to identify risk factors effectively, in particular in relation to the development of preventive measures against chronic diseases. the ageing of the european population must be duly taken into account, as the increase in life expectancy will result in a significant increase in the proportion of older people in the population, which is expected to reach 40% by 2030, posing challenges for both the economy and society. therefore, emphasis should be placed on neurodegenerative diseases, which particularly affect this population group.
telecommunications networks are more crucial than ever at this stage, contributing to economic growth, facilitating the development of the digital single market and improving the competitiveness of the economy, especially of small and medium-sized enterprises, particularly in a time of crisis. internet networks and services are increasingly based on internet infrastructure. the internet is becoming the dominant platform for communication, services, education and participation in the social and political life of business activities. therefore, the availability of widespread, high-speed and secure access to the internet and digital services is increasingly essential for economic growth, competitiveness, social inclusion and, above all, employment.
in writing. - digital networks and services are increasingly based on internet infrastructure where broadband networks and digital services are closely interconnected. the internet is becoming the dominant platform for so many areas of our daily lives. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the digital single market and its implementation in the member states. the lack of investment in broadband infrastructure, particularly in rural areas of the eu, and the lack of a european strategy for the development of cross-border digital service infrastructures. the cost of this loss of benefit is estimated to be at least 4% of gdp until 2020. the problem is, for example, smes, which, because they lack a connection to a network of adequate quality and speed, cannot benefit from new technologies such as cloud computing, which allow for innovative commercial offerings and considerable economies of scale. i hope that broadband for all is the next eu goal.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on transeuropean telecommunications networks because i consider it a priority to provide guidelines on broadband networks and digital service infrastructures in the telecommunications field. in order to promote the interconnection and interoperability of national networks, support the development of a digital single market, contribute to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions and improve economic competitiveness, it is now more necessary than ever to identify projects of common interest to deploy broadband and digital service-related infrastructure in the eu. creating cross-border access to an interoperable digital public services infrastructure means improving the interoperability and interconnection of digital services at all levels, for example also in the field of online healthcare or for projects related to e-government. given the growing importance of the internet economy and electronic commerce, i welcome the commission's proposals under the digital agenda for europe to create greater connectivity and access to the net by creating an infrastructure of digital services that also considers and protects the needs of consumers. ensuring a digital single market based on superfast broadband can only lead to economic and social benefits for all users.
in writing. - i found the report analysing the transeuropean telecommunications networks to be balanced and acceptable, and i therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. - i have already had the opportunity to stress the need for decisive action to reduce the internal digital divide, as is regularly confirmed by eurostat surveys. a group of countries has lagged behind, where private investors' resources are not sufficient to align either consumption or broadband deployment. the eu must therefore be involved, in view of the clear general interests linked to the convergence processes, in addition to the obligations towards european citizens deriving from the tfeu. it seems to me that the declaration referred to in article 2 of the commission's proposed regulation also reflects these assessments. i also note that the spread of communication technologies is directly related to the efficiency and integrity of public administration and the effective exercise of press freedoms and democratic participation in an open and liberal society. furthermore, an increased use of ict technologies in relation to the sustainability of welfare and service administration systems, from e-medicine to online shopping, to an ageing and limited mobility population, should be considered to be in the public interest. the commission's proposal is a good one, but it is not enough to make it clear that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments.
in writing. - in principle, my opinion on the creation of transeuropean telecommunications networks is taken for granted: i'm all for it. however, this report has given me a lot of time to think about what the eu's priorities should be today: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the need to look further and to consider wider issues arises here. we must look at the needs of the next 50 years, not the last 50 years, and at the same time take action to protect those whose skills are in danger of being lost, so that they can be re-trained and their experience recovered. with these considerations in mind, i voted in favour of this proposal.
in writing. - improving communication should be one of the main objectives of the european legislator. the economic recovery of the member states is going through this. i vote in favour of the motion.
in writing. - i agree with the amendments to the commission proposal, particularly because they make the projects of common interest in the field of electronic public administration more effective. interoperable cross-border online healthcare services could function more uniformly through the adoption of a standard for the representation of data and electronic documents. i also think it is a good idea to propose that a minimum common set of data and electronic documents be identified as the basic patient enablement for interoperable online healthcare services.
in writing. - the proposal for a regulation tabled by mr tosenowsky sets out, within the framework of the connecting europe facility, which is an integral part of the europe 2020 strategy, a set of guidelines on objectives and priorities for broadband networks and digital service infrastructures in the field of telecommunications. the regulation identifies projects of common interest for the deployment of broadband networks and digital service infrastructures, which aim to improve the competitiveness of the european economy, promote the interconnection and interoperability of national networks, support the development of a digital single market, and contribute to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions and the protection of the environment.
there is no doubt that greater accessibility to the web can foster the development of the internal market and increase the availability of services for all citizens. the european union has done a great deal in this direction, especially through various initiatives. i am thinking of the european digital agenda, the action plan 2011-2015, but also the review of public procurement. but now we must overcome the resistance in the internal market, due to the differences in national approaches, and we must do so to ensure greater accessibility to the web, which is essential for development, for employment but also and above all for the participation of citizens in society.
in writing. - as chair of the high level group on gender equality and diversity, i would like to stress that there has been a consistent effort in this legislature to raise public awareness of the concepts of the dignity, rights and well-being of disabled people. in the european union, one in six people has a disability, ranging from mild to severe, while more than a third of citizens over 75 have disabilities that limit them to some extent. the obstacles to a normal life are not only architectural barriers but also the lack of services or simply prejudice and lack of attention and solidarity. with today's vote i wanted to support a directive which is very important for all those people who are disproportionately affected by the inaccessibility of websites. only 5% of public websites are accessible, which is alarming considering that we often talk about information and services that are essential to citizens.
in writing. - as the epp we approved the report on the accessibility of public bodies' websites in view of the increasing amount of information and services provided online. improving accessibility means enabling all people, including those with disabilities, to use websites without any obstacles. however, the internal market still seems to be affected by the multiple approaches adopted by each member state. the latter is precisely to assist efforts to bridge the gap and harmonise the legislative, regulatory and administrative provisions on website accessibility. the rapporteur's proposals are aimed at improving accessibility. i therefore welcome any initiative to extend the scope of the commission's directive not only to the national level but also to regional and local levels. i also think it is useful to specify more all the definitions relating to online information and services in order to avoid ambiguity or lack of transparency. in this respect, i think it is fair to point out that setting standards for digital services and accessibility would also make it easier for the commission to monitor the content of websites.
in writing. - the chatzimarkakis report analyses the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the accessibility of public sector bodies' websites. i believe it is essential that public sector websites, especially those providing services to citizens, should be made more accessible and usable by all people with disabilities.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of this report because i believe it makes reasonable changes to the existing regulation. i think that the proposal to extend the scope of the directive to websites operated by bodies performing public functions is a positive one, as is the request to include functions offered through websites which are external to those of the body in question. the issue of accessibility to websites is important and is linked to the issue of the right of access to information, which must also be guaranteed to people with disabilities or the elderly. i therefore believe that the report is moving in the right direction in helping these categories of citizens, and for this reason i am voting in favour. i welcome the call for the establishment of a monitoring body, with adequate human and financial resources to operate properly, and to deal with complaints from website users about non-compliance with accessibility requirements. finally, i welcome the possibility that companies developing websites, if there is effective harmonisation of website accessibility, may see a reduction in costs.
in writing. - improving access to public administration data is a first step towards a better relationship between citizens and public administrators. widening accessibility certainly improves the transparency of administrative action. i vote in favour of the motion.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to improve the accessibility of public bodies' websites. the draft directive lays down specific technical provisions requiring member states to make the content of certain types of public sector websites, i.e. those providing information and services essential for citizens' participation in the economy and society, accessible to people with disabilities. we have also worked very well on this text with the european parliament's intergroup on disability, of which i am also a member as vice-president. almost all our requests were accepted during the work of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection (imco) and the result can therefore be described as satisfactory. i believe it is essential that people with disabilities should be able to enjoy certain guarantees and rights in this area too, which is becoming increasingly important and developed and which in future will have to take their needs into greater account.
in writing. - making information accessible via the web in a secure and transparent way must be possible for everyone. the 175,000 companies and one million people employed in the sector generate some 144 billion euros annually. this exceptional economic impact must be enabled to unlock its full potential, contributing to the further development of the internal market, boosting highly skilled employment and considerably increasing the availability of services for all european citizens.
in writing. - the need to harmonise national public sector measures at eu level is an essential step towards ending fragmentation and lack of confidence in the web accessibility market. i agree with the rapporteur, however, that the measures proposed by the commission are not sufficient in this respect. first, the scope should be extended to all public sector bodies' websites in order to comply with the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities and the obligations contained in the digital agenda for europe on promoting digital inclusion and trust in the market for unhindered access. in addition, the proposed definitions do not reflect current and future technological developments and i therefore support the proposed amendments to clarify them. the obligation to monitor and follow up complaints should then be implemented in an open mechanism where member states can draw up their report on the results of the monitoring carried out. finally, on the subject of delegated acts, i agree with the rapporteur in suggesting that the power to adopt delegated acts should be limited to specific situations, without amendments.
in writing. - although sound fiscal policies are the essential foundation for controlling the level of indebtedness in european countries, i support the need to embark on a path of sustainable growth aimed at boosting competitiveness and employment. austerity policies must give way to policies that can define long-term investments, which are essential for economic recovery and employment growth. it is essential to fill the gap in a european framework that channels funding and ensures that growing innovative enterprises, in particular smes, can realise their full development potential.
in writing. - this report aims to strengthen the existing regulatory framework on longterm financing as an essential tool for economic growth and competitiveness in the eu, for job creation and for financing essential infrastructure, research and development projects. in view of the critical situation in financial markets caused by the economic crisis and, above all, by the sovereign debt crisis, we must ask ourselves how we can solve the problem of dependence on traditional bank loans, by trying to give new impetus to other forms of financing or by devising new ones to avoid a stalemate. in many member states, the recovery is not going well because of the lack of alternative financing instruments that could re-activate their growth potential. this does not imply that commercial banks (private, cooperative, savings banks, etc.) are deprived of their role: the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the services provided by the public authorities. however, the recipients will be both households and institutional investors, for whom the commission itself envisaged so-called eltifs.
in writing. - while the klinz report is balanced, i do not share some of the ideas it conveys, such as the positive role of banking union in reducing market fragmentation. that is why i voted against.
in writing. - the economic data in europe speak for themselves: in some areas there are tentative signs of recovery, in others recovery has already begun, in others it seems that the night is still long. the wealth burned since 2008 is not being recovered in a blink of an eye, and above all the damage caused to people's well-being and trust in the political class will remain for a long time. in this context of continuous calls for cuts and sacrifices, the forward-looking politician must ask questions, including: given the limited resources available and the emergency situation, how can i balance the need to trigger recovery in the shortest possible time with the need for long-term investment to make this recovery lasting and sustainable? this report attempts to answer this question in a coherent and sensible way. the way in which the rapporteur and, in particular, the epp colleague who negotiated this text on behalf of my political group, were able to reach an agreement convinced me to vote in favour.
in writing. - given europe's reliance on bank lending, there is an urgent need to develop access to capital markets, particularly for smes, for example through initial public offerings, the issuance of government debt, the creation of new trading venues tailored to specific needs, and better access to private equity and venture capital. i agree with the report when it says that securitisation can play an important role in financial intermediation, as it can play an important role in lightening banks' balance sheets and creating additional lending capacity. however, the securitisation process is heavily stigmatised, particularly in the wake of the subprime mortgage crisis in the united states. public-private partnerships (ppps) can also offer an effective and cost-efficient method to facilitate collaboration between the public and private sectors on certain investments, in particular in the context of infrastructure projects.
in writing. - at present almost all member states are implementing a policy of fiscal consolidation aimed at keeping their debt levels under control. while sound fiscal policies are an essential foundation, europe needs to embark on a path of sustainable growth that strengthens its competitiveness vis-à-vis other areas of the world and ensures the creation of new jobs. i therefore voted in favour of mr klinz's report, which stresses that financing the real economy is of fundamental importance in the difficult road out of the crisis.
in writing. - we must immediately clarify a misunderstanding which has not been made clear in this report either: when we talk about prostitution, we must absolutely distinguish between what is voluntary and what is forced, and therefore criminal. the latter must be fought vigorously, because violence and exploitation lie behind it. i think that voluntary prostitution is quite different, that is, the free choice to pursue a profession through the use of one's own body. in this case i am in favour of complete legalisation, following the model already adopted in several european countries where this activity is regulated and where prostitutes are subject to tax, social and health obligations. we can 't be hypocrites . when we say that it is the "oldest profession in the world", it is certainly true and from here we must start for a proper analysis. we are not going to allow the european parliament to be the arbiter of the decisions of the council of ministers. i am firmly in favour of the latter hypothesis and that is why, at italian level too, i am fighting for the repeal of the merlin act by means of a referendum. i'm sure the vast majority of people feel the same way.
in writing. - i support the report by mrs schleicher, because it touches on a number of key points relating to prostitution. prostitution is a difficult phenomenon to quantify, as it is illegal in most member states. this is a real form of violence against women and a violation of human dignity and gender equality. it is an area often run by organised crime, the proceeds of which are then reinvested in further illicit operations. it is also true that "financial desperation" often drives women into this terrible cycle. i also agree with the rapporteur on the effectiveness of the nordic model, which prohibits the purchase of sex and decriminalises those who engage in prostitution. in this way, it is the "client" who commits the crime and not the woman who prostitutes herself and creates a deterrent against the "users" of the prostitution service.
in writing. - the european union, which has always been sensitive to development and cooperation issues, has often used trade as a development tool, in particular by opening its markets to exports from poor countries and encouraging them to trade with each other. promoting the development of responsible business practices is a priority. social responsibility needs to be clearly defined so that transnational corporations operating in developing countries, working with local governments, can contribute to the creation of a system that guarantees environmental, economic and social rights in the countries in which they operate. we must also pay particular attention and make every effort to ensure that european traders do not contribute to the financing of conflicts and human rights abuses in the production and trade of natural resources. a programme is needed to include development projects to support institutional growth, the development of local governance systems, the prevention of human rights abuses and the implementation of basic labour standards in developing countries.
in writing. - i find the sargentini report on promoting the development of responsible business practices, including the role of the extractive industry in developing countries, very balanced and thoughtful, and i have therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. - the extraction and subsequent exploitation of natural resources accounts for a significant share of the gdp of developing countries, developing a huge amount of international trade and investment between them and the rest of the world. africa has some of the largest mineral reserves in the world, through which the continent should be able to "take off" on its own. in order to implement this, coherent strategies are needed to ensure that the exploitation of natural resources becomes the engine of economic development and diversification. unfortunately, disputes over natural resources have caused and continue to cause conflict worldwide. i therefore voted in favour of the measure in order to promote the effective development of responsible business practices in developing countries. in the mining sector, i hope that all the necessary reforms will be made to ensure that mining is sustainable, does not harm workers' rights, and does not harm the environment, and that the logic of the voluntary approach is overcome by the use of guiding principles on business and human rights. the eu should also provide assistance in tax governance to reduce the difficulties of these countries in pursuing their national interests.
in writing. - the report gives due weight to the role of international csr initiatives, whether by governments through intergovernmental organisations or by the private sector or civil society organisations, while recognising that these initiatives often lack implementation mechanisms and there are no established procedures to respond to breaches of the rules. however, it must not be forgotten that these measures have always operated on a voluntary basis, which allows companies of different sizes and sectors to act in the best way possible, in proportion to their capabilities. intergovernmental initiatives can, however, provide a general policy direction to be followed, provided that this is decided with due regard also to the views of the private sector.
the agenda includes a discussion on the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in ukraine (2014/2595 ((rsp)).
mr president, i have two questions for commissioner füle. first, i appreciated the most recent position taken by baroness ashton on the ukraine-eu-russia relationship. she says that the crisis in ukraine was wrongly perceived as a confrontation between east and west, when the reality is that of a convergence and a synergy. baroness ashton accepts the concept of a eurasian integration process where russia and the eu cooperate in the creation of a common area of trade, stability and peace. my question is: why insist on keeping two systems of customs union alive, instead of creating just one free-trade zone? secondly, the ukrainian parliament is proposing to have in a new government three ministers who belong to the svoboda party, which is a neo-nazi, anti-semitic entity. what do you intend to do to maintain coherence with your past position on the inclusion of the haider party in the government of austria?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on the eve of the elections to be held in iraq in april, with the new positive rules adopted, we must say that iraq is still a country in serious difficulties, as was also shown by the words of the colleagues who have preceded me. after eleven years of war and the withdrawal of american troops, the country is in difficulty both because of the increase in violence and attacks between the various factions, which between december and february hit the province of anbar, fallujah, the urria camp, the christian area of baghdad and the foreign minister himself, and because of the serious socioeconomic conditions in which the population lives, especially children. this is despite iraq having the third largest crude oil reserves in the world, but because of attacks and corruption, exports are limited. added to this is the serious issue of refugees following the conflict in syria. we certainly welcome the conclusions of the february european council, but in our resolution we ask that the european union take a stronger stance in supporting and also in verifying the democratization process under way in iraq, also making the recent bilateral trade agreement conditional on respect for human rights, freedom of the press, inclusive dialogue with the sunni minority and, above all, the protection of the most vulnerable communities, including the christian community. it is estimated that over the last decade more than half of iraqi christians have left the country, reducing the positive presence of those who were definitely for dialogue and were a mediating force. we also recall that the capacity building programme launched on 22 february is important for us in order to support the role of the high commission for human rights, whose effective autonomy we must verify, and also to support the ... (the president interrupts the speaker)
mr[nbsp ]president, i am listening here to a long list of horror stories about iraq. a few of my colleagues have mentioned what was a major origin of the horror, namely the war – one of the most stupid, expensive and useless wars of the last decades, waged in the name of exporting democracy and defending us from threats that did not exist. so, since this is a time when many of us would like europe to play an increasing role in the world, with more intervention, accomplishing more and better things on all fronts, i would simply like to remind my colleagues that once the cameras have gone, once the spotlight has shifted, the problem may be that democracy is not there in the way that you expected. you have to contribute to rebuilding a country which is very hard to rebuild, and you have to address all the problems that are now apparent.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, more than 3,000 iranian citizens have taken refuge in the ashraf and liberty camps in iraq. the continuing attacks, which have also involved the iraqi security forces who are supposed to protect them, have left 118 dead, 7 hostages and 1,000 wounded and maimed. in the latest attack in september 2013, 52 refugees were executed including doctors and nurses. the iraqi government, while denying involvement, refuses to let the families of the last 52 victims know where they are buried and refuses to rebuild the wall of protection that the americans had built around the camp. it is incredible that baroness ashton has not intervened decisively in an intolerable situation and that europe is turning a blind eye to the iraqi government which is covering up for, if not helping, the iranian regime to massacre refugees. the same is true of the un. where was it? where is it? and let us not forget the continuing slaughter of christians and the destruction of their churches.
president-in-office of the council, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. - madam president, the european union wants to see iraq emerge as a strong and dependable partner, and to remain steadfast in its support for the country’s democratic transition. iraq’s unity and territorial integrity are essential elements in building a shared prosperity for its citizens and in promoting stability throughout the entire region. the european union will continue to support the efforts of the united nations assistance mission for iraq, as well as other partners, to help strengthen iraq’s democratic institutions and processes, promote the rule of law, facilitate regional dialogue and to ensure the protection of human rights. the european union closely follows the situation of minorities in iraq, including christians, and regularly informs the authorities about our concerns. of course the situation of the christian minority is a cause of particular concern. unfortunately, this is a matter of concern not only for iraq, but also for other countries of the greater middle east like syria. the european union will continue to raise the profile of human rights in our dialogue with iraq, also as part of the ongoing implementation of the partnership and cooperation agreement. the issue of minorities will continue to feature prominently in these exchanges. one honourable member, mr[nbsp ]stevenson i think, made the point about the protection of civilians in anbar province. the impact on the civilian population has indeed been very severe and some 300[nbsp ]000 internally displaced persons have already fled the area. the european union has called upon iraq to ensure that civilians are protected in the campaign to dislodge the isil – the islamic front of iraq in the levant – and that humanitarian organisations be granted access to areas affected by the fighting. another issue raised was that of the residents of camp houria and the truth about the attack which took place on 1[nbsp ]september 2013. i would like to inform the house that the vice-president/high representative immediately condemned the attack against camp ashraf and she has continued to ask the iraqi authorities to conduct a full and transparent investigation into those events. resettlement of the camp residents in a third county remains the best permanent solution. member states are regularly encouraged to consider accepting camp residents and we would ask for your support in this regard. we are also extremely concerned about iraq’s increased use of the death penalty and we make regular statements and démarches to reflect our position that this form of punishment is inhuman and does not serve as a deterrent to crime. women are another group who also suffer severe human rights violations, especially proxy arrests involving female members of families, as well as the treatment of female prisoners, so these are issues that are raised with the iraqi authorities and will remain high on our agenda. before closing, i would like to commend the excellent work done by our delegation in baghdad. i think ms oomen-ruijten referred to that. our colleagues in iraq continue to render an invaluable service and have been doing so under extremely difficult conditions.
i have received six motions for resolutions pursuant to rule 110 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 27 february 2014. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the discussion of the statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the use of armed drones (21014/2567 ((rsp)).
this parliament is taking a very important position on the issue of the use of armed drones. the resolution agreed upon is the first step towards the total prohibition of the use of this horrible weapon. if there is one reason to forbid forever the use of drones it is simply the fact that they are a new weapon. we received a nobel prize for peace, and one of the main points is this: stop inventing new weapons; stop using technology and science to invent new weapons. so i am really surprised by all these limitations that are put by some colleagues on this issue. international law prohibits arbitrary killings, and this should be the main reason, in addition to what i have already said, for having a firm position against this new weapon. so i hope that this resolution will be the first step towards a total ban on this weapon.
president-in-office of the council, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. - madam president, i would like to thank the members for their remarks on this important topic. i would like to the highlight the following. first, the way in which the policy on rpas will develop will be influenced by two main parameters: firstly political parameters – member states, the european institutions, and our electorate – and secondly, it will be influenced by technology and industry. institutions can, of course, guide the markets, but this will be an interactive process. one thing is clear. there will be a large market for rpas. as the work mandated by the european council progresses, some member states will consider what sort of rpa they might develop, possibly together with the help of the european defence agency. but we are not yet at the stage where the decision to develop an rpa has been taken. as that debate develops, let us remember the context. we need to look at europe’s role in the world and decide what we need. i also want to refer to compliance with international law and repeat that we believe that all armed conflicts should be consistent with international law. we discuss such topics with all our international partners. reference was also made to the ethical aspects of the use of drones. ethical frameworks regarding human rights already exist, and the charter is just one example. as the technology evolves, we will of course examine their compatibility with these instruments. concerning the legality of the use of drones, our view – and this was raised by many members – is that their use should be consistent with international law.
i have received six motions for resolutions pursuant to rule 110 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 27 february 2014. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the report by mr louis michel, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the situation of fundamental rights in the european union (2012) (a7-0051/2014).
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, it is paradoxical that in 2014 we still have to talk about the failure of the member states of the union to implement the values of democracy and the rule of law that should have been the foundation of european integration. there are still many gaps in various countries. in italy there are still prisons where thousands of prisoners are held in unacceptable conditions. in germany, in the greater germany, institutions such as the jungendamt continue to exist to the detriment of the freedom and rights of children of binational couples and the rights of both parents. europe has opened its borders to goods, but some countries have closed them to children. few countries have signed the istanbul convention against violence against women, children and the elderly, and not all states have agreed to require their police officers to use identification numbers. there are many open questions on civil rights, refugee protection and freedom of expression. beyond our borders, men and women are fighting for those rights that have been denied them. it is also becoming increasingly necessary in europe to ensure that fundamental rights are no longer negotiable. we also need a common charter of duties, of the duties of the institutions towards the citizens and of the citizens towards the institutions.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i shall vote against this resolution because this europe is imploding, not because rights are not being respected, but because duties have been completely forgotten. we give freely of our rights and freedoms, without demanding in return that we comply with our duties and respect the rules. before we worry about discrimination against roma and immigrants - and even mention suspected terrorists as the categories that should be protected - we have to worry about discrimination against citizens. in my country, italy, it is italians who are discriminated against in the allocation of public housing, places in public day nurseries, subsidies and social pensions. as a former immigrant and proud italian citizen, as a sociologist and journalist who has been dealing with immigration for 35 years, i feel it is my duty to warn this europe against the explosion of a wave of racism, not because, as this motion for a resolution would have us believe, immigrants or suspected terrorists are discriminated against, but because citizens of european countries are discriminated against because of our submission to a globalist, immigrationist, goodness-loving and relativist ideology. i am opposed to the europe envisaged by this resolution. i say no to a europe that looks like a wasteland, where everyone who comes sets up his own tent and dictates his own conditions, and ends up turning us into a land of conquest.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have heard the rapporteur, mr michel, ask us to reconsider the possibility of presenting our report, even calling it disturbing. let us begin by discussing the situation of fundamental rights, the first of which should be respect for the ideas of others. what is there to be alarmed about when we write that we want an absolute ban on torture and cruel treatment, when we stress that we want to fight with strength against terrorism and organised crime? what is disturbing when we condemn any form of discrimination based on sexual orientation, when we recognize freedom of thought, conscience, religion, belief and disbelief, and the practice of the religion of one's choice? what is there to be alarmed about when we want the rights of refugees and migrants and humanitarian assistance to migrants in distress at sea to be respected and protected? what is disturbing when we are concerned about the fact that people with disabilities continue to be victims of discrimination and exclusion and when we condemn any persecution, violence, discrimination against roma in the european union, and many other things? what does not convince me personally - and i do not want to say that it is disturbing, for the sake of mr michel's report - is the high ideological level with which it is infested and which really risks jeopardising the realisation of fundamental rights because, through the appearance of fundamental rights, it enters into situations which in all our states are still controversial, are partisan political discussions and have nothing to do with fundamental rights.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this report on the situation of fundamental rights in the european union is undoubtedly a very important and advanced reference point. i would like to congratulate mr michel on the excellent work he has done for this parliament. in fact, this resolution contains in a clear and strong way, in all fields, what the fundamental rights must be that are to be guaranteed by a european union which wants to be at the forefront of the world in the field of democracy and freedom, as has been said of a europe which has the ambition to be an example and a moral force. however, the gap between what should be and what actually happens in the countries of the union in terms of respect for these rights is often very large. it is enough to think of women's rights, respect for sexual differences but also freedom of thought, association, politics and culture. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the information is not distorted. it is therefore essential that this resolution goes ahead, is adopted and gives the powers of the european parliament to all the institutions so that we can make a very important leap forward towards all public opinion.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the european arrest warrant and the european criminal investigation warrant are two key issues in the construction of a european criminal area. the report by mr melo introduces more appropriate instruments to combat crime than those offered by traditional judicial cooperation. at the same time, the need to ensure respect for fundamental human rights, as expressed in the echr, in the conduct of investigative activities is an objective to be pursued. in this respect, the provisions of articles 5 and 6 seem to be appropriate. monitoring of the application of the arrest warrant has revealed significant differences in the application of the instrument by the various states. they are accompanied by regulatory gaps which make the protection of the fundamental rights guaranteed by article 6 of the echr more than uncertain. i think it is important to point out that the authority which issues the european mandate must check that the measure is proportionate, which is essential if we are to reduce the unbalanced use which has been made of it in practice. another recommendation plays a key role in the protection of human rights: i refer to the obligation on states to guarantee the right to an effective remedy under article 13 of the echr against a request for the enforcement of an instrument of mutual recognition.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner reding, there is no doubt that the judicial measures we are discussing today are of undeniable importance in the construction of a single area of justice, also from the criminal point of view. however, the credibility and effectiveness of justice require concrete and effective instruments, for which full and mutual recognition and rapid enforcement between member states are essential. as regards the arrest warrant, the rapporteur, mrs ludford, is right to suggest that it should be used in accordance with strictly proportional criteria, because there is a need, on the one hand, to protect fundamental rights and, on the other, to gain certainty in respect of a possible criminal offence. i congratulate my colleague nuno melo on the excellent work he has done on the european investigation order: the collection of evidence according to rigorous and concrete criteria that promote legal certainty. there is no doubt that judicial and police cooperation is essential at this time in the construction of this area of justice. to do this, it is obviously necessary to restrict the use of the european arrest warrant to cases where there is a conflict with transnational crime and in all those cases where it is necessary to resort to a precautionary measure. as regards the european investigation order, it is important to provide that the costs are to be borne by the executing state, just as it is important to have thought of and recognised the hearing of witnesses also by videoconference. there is no doubt that the computer system is a model of reference also at the organizational level. i would like to conclude, madam president, by saying how important these instruments are also in relation to the european public prosecutor's office, on which the next plenary session in march will discuss a preliminary report which we hope will guide the next work of the commission and the council.
vice-president of the commission. - president, let me remind the house that there are specific rules in the justice and home affairs domain. they are different to the rules in other political domains. for instance, according to the lisbon treaty, member states can make legislative proposals without the commission. this is the case for the european investigation order. fortunately, in this case, the european parliament is in codecision mode and could present proposals which reconciled security with rights. the second element is that before lisbon the member states could present proposals without the commission, without the european parliament, without the scrutiny of the court of justice. fortunately, this period ends as of 1 december. we will be out of the state of exception then. on the european investigation order, let me stress that i hope that this time this directive is implemented and applied, unlike the evidence warrant framework, which was only implemented by two member states. and i am also telling the parliament that the implementation of this directive can then be monitored by the commission. the commission will not hesitate to launch infringement proceedings for failure to transpose or apply the rules adopted. the same will be the case for the european arrest warrant, because on 1[nbsp ]december the transitional phase of the treaty of lisbon will end, and as from that date the commission will be able to launch infringement proceedings for failure to correctly apply the european arrest warrant. we will then work towards full implementation and in the case of instruments like the european supervision order, we can help to reduce pre-trial detention in european arrest warrant cases, so it will be important to have all the instruments functioning together. let me underline once more the kind of work we have been doing for several years now. i refer here to fair trial rights, which are directives presented by the commission on the basis of the lisbon treaty to reconcile security considerations with the rights of individuals. all these directives contain specific elements which strengthen the application of the arrest warrant, the right to interpretation and to translation, the right to information about rights, the right to have access to a lawyer, and even to have access to a lawyer in the country of origin and in the country of destination under the arrest warrant, and these are rights which you have on the table now. legal aid, presumption of innocence, procedural rights for children and vulnerable people, all these are very important so that we have this equilibrium which unfortunately in pre-lisbon times we did not have. parliament now has the possibility to implement those. i just regret that some member states refuse to participate in those elements of fair trial rights. that is not positive for the development of the european union.
the joint debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 27 february 2014.
the agenda includes, for joint discussion, the report by yannick jadot, on behalf of the committee on international trade, on the recommendation for a draft council decision on the conclusion of the voluntary partnership agreement between the european union and the republic of indonesia on forest governance and trade in timber and timber products imported into the european union (11767/1/2013 - c7-0344/2013 - 2013/0205nle)) (a7-0043/2014), and the commission statement on the eu-indonesia voluntary agreement on forest governance and trade in timber and timber products imported into the eu (2013/2990rsp)).
i have received a motion for a resolution pursuant to rule 110 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 27 february 2014.
the next item is the debate on the question with request for an oral answer to the commission on the svalbard archipelago and its fisheries by jarosław leszek wałęsa, on behalf of the committee on fisheries (o-000001/2014 b7-0107/2014).
member of the commission. - madam president, i can only reiterate that we are aware of the murmansk treaty which norway and russia concluded in 2010 and which brought a long-standing dispute between these two states about the delimination of maritime areas in the barents sea to a close. this can only be beneficial for policy in the very sensitive arctic region. the commission is currently investigating whether the single delimination line has any adverse effect for union fishing vessels operating in the waters in question, and whether it is in any way contestable under applicable international law and the relevant provisions of the united nations convention on the law of the sea in particular. i can also reiterate, concerning quotas, that we are unaware of any appropriation of the greenland halibut and redfish quotas in the area, so we have no opinion on that matter. concerning the many questions asked by ms[nbsp ]fraga estévez, i can only say that these are very detailed questions which it would be difficult for me to answer, but i will definitely pass them on to my colleague and i will take care to see that those detailed questions are answered. finally, i would also draw your attention to the position or statement made by your colleague from the greens/efa party. i think that caring for arctic sustainability is an extremely important issue and we should not underestimate any aspect of this, whether climate change or anything else. i myself visited svalbard some years ago when i was still the commissioner for science and research. i do not know whether you know this, but we have the most northerly scientific territory there where, basically, many international, renowned scientists work together in cooperation. but this is an extremely beautiful area and it is very important that we protect it.
the debate is closed.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, cyclone cleopatra has claimed 19 lives in sardinia, including a farmer who is still missing and a businessman who committed suicide because of the desperation of the loss and the inability to restart his business. some 70 municipalities were affected, and damage was estimated at €650 million. we have a duty to support the citizens and businesses affected, but even more so we have a duty to ensure that the timing and procedures are swift, because the biblical timing of aid adds harm to harm. in the recent vote in the committee on regional development on the regulation on the union solidarity fund, we set the european commission a deadline of six weeks to respond to requests for the mobilisation of the fund. we know there's a sharing that i'm asking you to confirm here this morning. the idea that hydrogeological disruption is a variable that can dramatically aggravate the effects of adverse weather events and that the solidarity fund should also finance works to repair hydrogeological disruption was not accepted. of course, we must encourage policies to counter greedy land consumption. i would like to draw the attention of the house to this and to know the position of the commission and the council on the hydrogeological disaster.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank commissioner šemeta for his speech and for what he said to us. indeed, large areas of the union have been affected by disturbances and torrential rains in recent weeks. we have heard some examples in some of the national states. i bring you the testimony of my country, italy, one of the most mediterranean countries, with a temperate climate and sunshine for many months of the year. yet even in the capital, rome, there has been such heavy rainfall in recent days that it has caused flooding, evacuations of the population and the urgent and difficult intervention of civil protection and firefighters, not to mention the deaths and damage in many other parts of italy. we are naturally asking ourselves whether the european union can continue to give only solidarity or whether it must take concrete action. can we hope to be able to respond with a fund set up specifically for this purpose or to manage such emergencies through the european union solidarity fund? i think it is appropriate to understand that, in the face of the climate change that is taking place, the union must act more promptly. we need funds to combat coastal erosion, we need resources to prevent and manage earthquakes when they unfortunately do occur, and we need real interventions to combat water disruption. there is an urgent need to protect our artistic and cultural heritage left to the ravages of time. we need new tools because we are facing new emergencies. i think that the citizens need to see the european union directly involved in these matters more than in many others for which there is no real need.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i strongly support this excellent report because it has finally raised a fundamental question which concerns the citizens of sicily and sardinia and of course many other parts of europe. for a long time we have rightly tried to protect our fishermen, forgetting that often half of their toil and their worries were and are shared by their wives, mothers and sisters. women are directly involved in fishing, fish processing and many other activities and contribute to the economic production of fish. we need to highlight the work of women in the fishing industry, which is hard and exhausting work. the fishermen need protection, especially health protection, and they have the right to have their work properly remunerated with all the guarantees attached to such an important job. i shall therefore vote in favour of this report, which i hope will receive the overwhelming majority of the votes in this house.
in writing. - the common european sales law is an important element in the full exploitation of the common market by both businesses and consumers. the legal barriers often present in the various member states often discourage the sale (and purchase) of products abroad. increasing consumer rights and protections, especially in the case of increasingly online shopping, is now a top priority. similarly, for companies, promoting exports to new markets represents an important opportunity to exit the crisis. these measures are therefore useful in promoting intra-community trade and, above all, in making the rules uniform in relations between businesses and consumers in different countries.
in writing. - while i share most of the views expressed in the report on the common european sales law, i think that there are some parts which are not clear and that is why i abstained.
in writing. - as a member of the imco committee, i am particularly interested in the subject of the common european sales law. it is clear that the digital dimension of the internal market is becoming essential for both consumers and professionals, given that online sales are becoming more widespread and have acquired enormous potential. i therefore felt that a revision of the regulation on the common european sales law was necessary in order to achieve uniformity in the regulation of these transactions, as many consumer associations also wanted. i agree with this and i think that a review of the consumer rights directive is also necessary in order to ensure that consumers are protected in a harmonised way in all the member states. harmonising the common european law on sales would enable small and mediumsized enterprises to benefit from uniform rules which, by applying the same contractual clauses, could thereby facilitate cross-border trade, reducing their transaction costs and removing the obstacles to cross-border trade which contract law places in their way. only in this way will the persisting national differences which are detrimental to trade and bear additional costs dissuade the parties from establishing contractual relations from coming to light.
in writing. - the establishment of a common law at european level on the contract of sale is a wise choice in order to harmonize the rules between the member states. this will improve trade relations and benefit the economy. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. - the commission's proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on a common european sales law is an innovative initiative of fundamental importance for consumers and businesses in the internal market. one of the main issues concerns the improvement of the balance with regard to the free choice of remedies, bearing in mind the lack of correction by the seller, the absence of the obligation to notify the termination within a certain period and the general principle of no payment for use. i agree with the proposal to reformulate and restructure the rules on refunds. the aim is to provide a solution that ensures a sustainable balance between the two parties, so that it is clear and predictable to consumers what they are required to pay or return. in this way they will be able to exercise their rights with confidence.
in writing. - the directive on the marketing of tobacco products dates back to 2001, so it was essential to update it, also in the light of developments in the sector in recent years. the priority remains the protection of health, in particular prevention for young people. the commission has therefore decided to take the necessary steps to ensure that the information on products is as accurate as possible and that the choice is made in an increasingly conscious and informed manner. it has also decided to prohibit the use of flavourings or additives which could in any way subtly attract adolescents to these products. i also share the commission's view that there should be uniform eu rules governing the trade in electronic cigarettes.
in writing. - the original proposal of the european commission had created some confusion about the exclusion of sugar from the list of additives allowed in the tobacco processing process. if this principle of exclusion had been passed, it would have caused enormous damage to italian and european agriculture, since the use of sugar is necessary for the processing of our tobacco and for making it usable in the production of cigarettes and other tobacco products. moreover, that measure would be unjustified, since the addition of sugar does not create any additional risk to the health of smokers. the positive cooperation between the agriculture and environment committees has fortunately corrected this aspect, which had no reason to exist, especially since we cannot guarantee our fellow citizens the same health checks on tobacco imported from many third countries as we do on what is produced in europe.
in writing. - the report we have approved as a ppe provides for some amendments to the directive on tobacco products currently in force. the legislation in force has often been the subject of legal action by the tobacco industry, which nevertheless has never had any significant consequences. i think it is right to share the commission's efforts to promote health as a value by combating smoking and its spread, especially among young people: the fight against smoking is of course part of a wider effort to encourage healthy behaviour and lifestyle which is also promoted by other international organisations such as the who. an important element is the result achieved on the sale of electronic cigarettes, which were previously allowed only in pharmacies in accordance with the initial draft of the directive. we have decided, by voting in favour, to refer the matter to the member states, which will now be able to decide on the sale and distribution of electronic cigarettes and their components in complete autonomy.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the mcavan report analysing the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the processing, presentation and sale of tobacco and related products, as i share the views expressed in it.
in writing. - i wish to express my vote in favour of the agreement reached in the trilogues with the council on this important european directive. like any compromise, the new directive certainly has its improvements and its shortcomings, but it has the merit of making the regulation of a complex and constantly changing market such as that of tobacco products, the consequences of which are well known, more modern and effective. apart from some of the ideological positions which were the precursor to prohibitionism, such as the complete standardization of the package, many of the rules laid down in the directive can provide a useful starting point for a more effective fight against smoking in europe and for the protection of public health as a whole. in particular, i refer to the new rules on packaging and effective warnings, the provisions on the presence of additives, flavourings and ingredients in cigarettes, the measures on traceability and safety and the regulation of e-cigarettes. these measures represent a significant step forward in a serious campaign to reduce smoking, to prevent its terrible and now well-known consequences and to provide consumers with full and informed information.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the tobacco directive which seeks to introduce new rules to regulate this phenomenon, that of smoking, which is so widespread in our civil society. the work carried out is the result of a careful assessment of the various interests involved, all of which deserve protection: the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's environmental legislation and will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's environmental legislation. i think the final result is a good balance, with new legislation: two thirds of the package dedicated to warnings, new rules also for e-cigarettes, menthol cigarettes banned by 2020, limits and bans for flavourings and additives. we now hope that the council will approve the text as soon as possible, so that the two-year deadline for transposing the directive into national law can be triggered from that moment.
in writing. - smoking kills around 700,000 people in the eu every year and is the leading cause of preventable deaths. seventy percent of smokers start before the age of 18, and among these the percentage of very young people is very high. i voted in favour of the proposal for a new directive on the provisions concerning the processing, presentation and sale of tobacco because i believe that more efforts are needed to safeguard the health of citizens, especially in view of the good results achieved with the measures of recent years. the proposal for a directive contains measures to reduce the number of young people who smoke by eliminating packets of less than 20 cigarettes, by eliminating flavoured cigarettes and by making it compulsory to put on packets deterrent images covering 65% of their surface. the commission will be able to decide whether to market e-cigarettes as medicinal products to help people stop smoking or as other tobacco products. i believe that these measures can be useful in reducing the number of people, especially very young people, who start smoking and the number of premature deaths caused by smoking.
in writing. - europe's task should not be to criminalise smoking, but to carry out information campaigns on the dangers of smoking, and i say this as a non-smoker. the commission should act as a super partes, taking into account the freedom of choice of every informed consumer. one of the biggest risks is that the imposition of limits will encourage smuggling of cigarettes, of which over 80% come from china. in north africa, smuggling is worth about $1 billion a year and is run by terrorist cells that fund themselves by facilitating and speeding up illegal shipments. perhaps we should stop seeing smuggling of tobacco as a minor offence and see it as a real scourge of society. it is necessary to inform young people, including children, from primary school onwards, of the health risks involved in using tobacco products.
in writing. - i believe that there is still much to be done in this particular and delicate area, but at the same time this report lays the foundations for future cooperation aimed at implementing a common policy to eradicate this social scourge which still affects millions of people living in slavery within our borders. our task is to combat by all means the exploitation of prostitution, especially that of minors, which has become more and more widespread in recent years, also thanks to new means of communication such as the internet and mobile phones. that is why i am voting in favour of this resolution, which, despite the fact that it highlights the existence of two different approaches to solving the problem, reaffirms the european union's total willingness to combat the social scourge of involuntary prostitution, by doing everything possible to restore the dignity of the individual without blaming those who are forced to sell their bodies, since they are already victims of a system that must be opposed by the demand side, and by educating the new generations to respect human beings as such and not as commodities.
in writing. - if the single market is to work for the benefit of citizens and businesses, it is essential to improve the information available to people and businesses about their rights in the single market and the rules in force in the different member states. for these reasons, we must contribute to a better functioning of solvit, which was set up in 2002 and should be primarily a tool for identifying problems linked to the implementation of the single market. we have examples of late or incorrect implementation or examples of national rules which are in conflict with eu law. solvit really needs to become the place where citizens and businesses make the authorities realize that something is not working as it should. it still doesn't happen today. to give just one example, solvit should finally resolve the issues related to the recognition of professional qualifications, such as the clear distinction between tourist guides and tourist companions, which is far from being resolved, but still has cases of incorrect translation and terminology. i have put a question on this very point.
in writing. - solvit is an online network for the resolution of crossborder disputes arising from the non-compliance with and the imprecise and/or incorrect application of the single market rules. in this case, the disputes are between natural or legal persons and national administrations in the eu and are not the subject of legal proceedings at national or eu level. despite the results of solvit, there has been a steady increase in registered disputes, mainly related to social security, residence rights, recognition of professional qualifications and vat refunds. it is necessary to provide for new measures to enable solvit to adapt to new requirements and to function better. in addition to spreading the usefulness of this mechanism through ad hoc programmes, it would be necessary to eliminate any incompatibilities with certain national rules in many member states which are in conflict with eu single market legislation. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the progress of the infringement procedure. the committee also calls on the commission to review the potential use of the 'naming and shaming' principle, so that member states apply and transpose single market legislation according to the timetable.
in writing. - solvit is an online network for the informal settlement of crossborder disputes relating to the incorrect application of single market rules involving citizens, businesses or national administrations in the eu, to the extent that such disputes are not the subject of legal proceedings at national or union level. over the years, the volume of cases submitted to solvit has increased exponentially, with tangible results that have demonstrated the effectiveness of this tool for the single market. despite the positive results, there is still a great deal of room for improvement in enabling citizens and businesses to fully enjoy their rights in the single market through the solvit instrument. in my view, in order to ensure that the single market works for the benefit of citizens and businesses, it is essential to improve information on their rights in the single market and on the rules in force in the different member states, as well as to provide the necessary assistance to solve crossborder problems. in this context, i welcome the new commission recommendation to help improve the functioning of solvit and, in particular, the rule that solvit centres must work with the applicant to clarify the individual cases to be dealt with.
in writing. - as a member of the imco committee, i am particularly interested in the development and strengthening of the network introduced by the creation of the solvit network in 2002, as i believe that the presence of this instrument is beneficial to citizens and businesses. solvit is an online network for the informal settlement of cross-border disputes relating to the incorrect or inaccurate application of the single market rules, through which citizens have the opportunity to have their problems resolved and to receive advice on various issues relating mainly to the exercise of rights and the operation of procedures in other member states, in particular relating to: the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment, which aims to promote the development of the european union's environmental policy. solvit currently receives around 3[nbsp ]000 complaints per year, of which almost 90% are dealt with within 10 weeks of receipt. i have spoken in favour of the need to improve this network, because having a well-functioning, integrated, strengthened solvit and ensuring uniformity between the various member states is the key to unlocking the potential of the single market and increasing its growth.
in writing. - each year we vote on a report assessing the trends and developments of solvit, an online network for the informal settlement of crossborder disputes relating to the incorrect or inaccurate application of the single market rules involving citizens or businesses and national administrations in the eu. it must be said that since its introduction in 2003, its effectiveness has increased significantly, both in terms of its use and its satisfaction with dispute resolution. solvit started with less than 200 complaints and currently receives around 3000 a year. 89% of the cases handled were resolved or cleared within 10 weeks, with an average time required of 68 days, a marked improvement on previous years.
in writing. - the solvit online network has seen a steady increase in the number of cases submitted, with a resolution rate of 89% within 10 weeks. the results are therefore concrete and tangible and the commission's recommendation is a step forward in determining which structural cases should be handled by solvit centres. i agree with the report that a serious problem is the national rules of some member states which are in conflict with the eu single market legislation. the commission could also give serious consideration to the principle of 'naming and shaming'.
in writing. - mr løkkegaard's report focuses on solvit, looking at its operation from a broader perspective in the context of the governance of the single market. solvit has achieved tangible results and has demonstrated its effectiveness and value for the single market. however, there is still room for improvement in enabling citizens and businesses to fully enjoy their rights in the single market.
in writing. - i share the aim of streamlining and simplifying the legal framework for mutual assistance and timely assistance between judicial authorities of the member states in the taking of evidence in cases with a cross-border dimension, inspired by the principle of mutual recognition, towards an approach which takes account of the flexibility of mutual legal assistance and, at the same time, safeguards respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. the innovations introduced include: systems for judicial validation of orders issued by non-judicial authorities; increased guarantees for the execution of investigative measures abroad and incidents on the personal freedom of persons subject to such measures; the grounds for refusing to execute the order, based on the risk that the order may result in the infringement of a fundamental right of the person concerned.
in writing. - the report on the draft european parliament and council directive on the european criminal investigation order was adopted today. at the moment there is a certain difficulty in adapting traditional judicial cooperation to the current developments in european reality. we cannot deny that the directive is an important step towards the creation of a european criminal area, but the question remains of how to achieve this without affecting the fundamental rights and freedoms of every european citizen. following the reinforcement of police and judicial cooperation, which is also a milestone in the history of the eu, the time has now come to take the next step, namely to build a homogeneous criminal area according to well-defined guidelines to establish an area of freedom, security and justice. the guidelines to be followed include coordination of investigations, mutual recognition and protection of fundamental rights during criminal proceedings under article 82 tfeu.
in writing. - promoting the free movement of persons while ensuring the security of peoples through the establishment of an area of freedom, security and justice remains one of the cornerstones of the achievement of full european integration. over the years, police and judicial cooperation have been strengthened as measures to compensate for the abolition of internal borders and i am convinced that today it is necessary to go further, towards the creation of an effective criminal area. i voted in favour of this measure because i believe that the creation of this european criminal area is the last practical step needed to achieve one of the objectives that the 'founding fathers' of the eu had in mind. it is vital to improve 'strategic axes' such as mutual recognition, coordination of investigations and protection of fundamental rights in criminal proceedings. judicial cooperation must not undermine some of the core principles on which the union itself is founded, such as security and the protection of fundamental rights. in this way the cornerstones of freedom, security and justice must not be called into question; the guarantee that this will happen must be real, going hand in hand with judicial control over the respect of fundamental rights.
in writing. - the directive in question contributes to the concrete strengthening of the construction of the european criminal area. the importance of the latter is clear, as are its positive consequences for the life of the union and its citizens, and i therefore vote in favour of this report. i agree with the priorities identified, namely mutual recognition, coordination of investigations and protection of fundamental rights in criminal proceedings. i also think it is essential to stress the complementarity between harmonization and mutual recognition, but i stress that the latter cannot be achieved without harmonization.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report on the list of countries whose nationals must be in possession of visas when crossing the external borders and the list of countries whose nationals are exempt from this requirement, annexed to regulation (ec) no 539/2001. these lists are to be kept under continuous review in the light of developments in the eu's external relations with third countries: each country is a case in itself and as such different criteria must be taken into account. the european commission has proposed to exempt citizens of the republic of moldova from the visa requirement in the light of the considerable progress made by the country in recent years in the framework of the liberalisation dialogue and the association agreement recently signed with the eu at the eastern partnership summit in vilnius. moldova is currently the first eastern partnership country to meet all the requirements of the visa liberalisation action plan. i welcome the commission's proposal and hope that this initiative will be a step forward in eu-moldova cooperation and further strengthen economic and trade relations between the two parties, bringing benefits and benefits to both.
in writing. - i can only vote in favour of this report for more than one reason. firstly, because exempting moldovan citizens from the visa requirement when crossing the borders of the european union rewards the efforts made by the republic of moldova in recent years to meet the requirements of the visa liberalisation action plan. the reforms carried out by the country's administration are considerable and to be commended. the second reason for my vote in favour is the tangible benefits that the moldovan people will derive from this regulation. the costs and expectations of travel within the schengen area will be reduced, as will the principle of free movement of the european union. i shall also vote in favour of the way in which this proposal has been put forward, namely without any amendments, in order to facilitate, as the rapporteur has said, 'a swift and smooth adoption process within parliament'. finally, i very much hope that gradual economic and trade integration will develop and bring the republic of moldova and the european union ever closer together.
in writing. - the progress made by the republic of moldova is encouraging and the commission's proposal follows on from it. i support this report because visa abolition will reduce waiting times at consulates and the costs of travel to the schengen area, and will facilitate people-to-people contacts, which is essential for the continuing development of economic, cultural and scientific links. the transnistria question is still a complicated one, of course, but i am confident that the european perspective will also settle this question.
in writing. - i welcome the recommendation of the committee on international trade concerning the voluntary partnership agreement between the republic of indonesia and the european union and i vote in favour of it. i fully support the content of the agreement, which aims to define a legal framework for trade in timber between the union and indonesia and to strengthen the validity of the eu action plan for forest law enforcement, governance and trade. at the same time, i believe that the union's efforts to improve the sustainable management of the world's forests and to halt deforestation and forest degradation will be given a boost by the signing of this agreement. i am convinced that the integration of the acp into the comprehensive partnership and cooperation framework agreement will bring the european union and indonesia closer together and will encourage further developments in the future. i also share the rapporteur's call for a clear and reliable response to the indonesian timber legality verification system, so that the level required to ensure the operation and integrity of the system and the achievement of the objectives of the agreement can be achieved as soon as possible.
in writing. - like the rapporteur, i am very concerned about the operational level of the system for verifying the legality of indonesian timber. the development of this system is still far from reaching the level required to ensure the operation and integrity of the system. the indonesian authorities should address the various concerns raised by the system by finding appropriate and participatory solutions. the commission should ensure that all these deficiencies are addressed and resolved before issuing any licence for indonesian timber and its derivatives.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the control of persons at the external borders in line with the rapporteur and the vote in the libe committee. the proposal for a european parliament and council decision aims to introduce a simplified regime for the control of persons at the external borders based on the unilateral recognition by croatia and cyprus of certain documents which can be considered equivalent to their national transit visas or for intended stays of no more than 90 days over a period of 180 days in their territory. at the same time, by voting in favour of this report, we are going to repeal european parliament and council decisions no 895/2006/ec and no 582/2008/ec. the amendments proposed and approved are aimed at clarifying cyprus' status as a member state which has not yet fully implemented the schengen agreement.
in writing. - i welcome the report by mr fajon on the introduction of a simplified regime for the control of persons at the external borders in relation to the unilateral adoption by croatia and cyprus of certain documents considered equivalent to national visas for transit or stay not exceeding 90 days over a period of 180 days on their territory. i say this because i believe that any barrier to the free movement of persons within the european territory must be removed, always keeping in mind the rules governing the proper functioning of the free movement of persons and respecting the wishes of the citizens of the european union. at the same time, i welcome any developments in terms of integration, especially in the case of croatia and cyprus, two countries which are part of the union but which, as far as the schengen area is concerned, have not yet put into practice the technical measures necessary to join it. i believe that a union in which the borders of these two countries are also free from controls can only bring benefits to the two countries themselves, in particular in terms of reducing the waiting time for visas, as they are more united and cohesive.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mrs fajon's report. the text deals with a simplified regime for the control of persons at the external borders based on the unilateral recognition by cyprus and croatia of certain documents as equivalent to their national transit visas or for intended stays of no more than 90 days over a period of 180 days in their territory.
in writing. - i welcome the commission's proposal to amend the lists of third countries whose nationals must be in possession of visas when crossing the external borders and i welcome the work done by the rapporteur in the libe committee and the amendments made. i believe that the objective of this report is to develop a common immigration policy, helping to strengthen relations between the eu and the countries mentioned in the proposal, while seeking to improve the administration of justice and the level of respect for freedoms. in terms of content, i welcome the transfer of the caribbean and pacific island states and the specific categories of british nationals from the positive to the negative list, as they pose no risk to the european union, either in terms of illegal immigration or public security. at the same time i welcome the rapporteur's amendments concerning the united arab emirates, peru and colombia, in the first case in view of the uae's proposal to establish a working group on human rights, and in the second case in view of the economic and social progress of the two south american countries.
in writing. - i am in favour of the european commission's proposal, as the caribbean and pacific island states mentioned and the specific categories of british nationals do not pose any risk to the european union, either in terms of illegal immigration or in terms of public security. visa liberalisation is of great importance in the lives of citizens, but i believe that the commission should review the visa requirement for members of the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly when they attend meetings of that assembly in the schengen area, as members often encounter difficulties in this regard and a solution to the problem needs to be found. the european parliament should also be more involved in bilateral visa waiver agreements between the european union and third countries.
in writing. - i voted against this resolution because i believe that its approach is wrong. with this text, we are giving our support to a non-elected government, and we are ignoring the danger represented by the nationalistic and extreme-right component of the coalition that supports it. with this kind of statement we are only aggravating the ukrainian crisis. we should stop acting as if we are in a cold war scenario and constructively engage russia in initiatives that reflect the common interests of a secure, stable and prosperous ukraine.
in writing. - the european union i dream of and for which i work every day is a union which is cohesive and active in international relations as well as on its own territory. that is why i believe that the eu's role in the ukrainian crisis is crucial, both for the country of the orange revolution and the recent euromaidan and for the union itself. i therefore strongly support the actions and efforts of the foreign affairs council, led by president ashton, the ministers of france, germany and poland representing the eu and the european parliament delegation which visited kiev in recent weeks, all of whom are seeking to resolve the current crisis and to call for an end to violence and respect for human rights. i welcome the decisions taken by the foreign affairs council on the use of targeted sanctions and visa bans for those responsible for human rights violations, and i can only be pleased by the release of yulia tymoshenko, the country's former prime minister. i now hope that ukraine will overcome this period of uncertainty and, thanks to the elections on 25 may, will open a new democratic phase in its history.
in writing. - i think that each of us has our own view of what is happening in ukraine, but i honestly believe that the european union should not take an open stance on the internal affairs of the country, because the situation is perhaps not as clear and transparent as the western media would like to portray it, with the good guys on one side and the bad guys on the other. after the so-called arab spring, there was a single voice of approval for the revolution in the streets, but we saw how it ended with the muslim brotherhood in power. in syria, we were even going to engage with al qaeda guerrillas. i therefore want to hear other voices, and that is why i invited a delegation of ukrainian politicians to strasbourg yesterday, led by professor vitrenko, who is well aware of the situation in her country, having also run in the 2004 presidential elections, when the first set of problems for this new ukrainian republic emerged. the opposition in the streets that deposed president yanukovych is not only composed of peaceful and democratic protesters, but also includes several elements that explicitly refer to nazi ideology. this should make us think, for these situations must be evaluated with great caution.
in writing. - the dramatic situation in ukraine has left us appalled by the violence that has erupted in a country that we have always considered peaceful and friendly. i am encouraged by the happy outcome of the revolution, although i am saddened by the loss of many lives. i support this resolution because ukraine will now need our help and above all it will need to know that there is no intention of creating friction with moscow, also because the deep and comprehensive free trade agreement (dcfta) does not in any way represent a challenge or an obstacle to russian economic interests, just as the eu-ukraine association agreement, which i hope will be taken up again as soon as possible, does not hinder strong cultural ties with the eastern states.
in writing. - i am among the signatories of this text and i supported it because i believe that the growth of instability in iraq must be addressed in a coherent and effective manner. iraq is suffering from a new surge in sectarian violence and we need to advocate an inclusive political process in view of the elections planned for april 2014. iraq has seen about 1[nbsp ]500 civilian deaths from violence since the beginning of this year. for this reason, it is fundamental to reiterate our call on the iraqi government and on all political leaders to take the necessary measures to provide security and protection for all people in iraq, in particular members of vulnerable minorities.
in writing. - i can only agree with the resolution on the situation in iraq, a country which has been tormented by years of terrorist attacks which have done nothing but hit the iraqi population, increase the number of displaced people immeasurably, and leave a deep mark on the souls of adults and children who have been deprived of the right to live a normal childhood. the attacks by the islamic state of iraq and the levant in the province of al-anbar were brutal and i strongly condemn them, just as i believe that the figures for the dead, wounded and victims in january are terrible and should make us reflect on the real situation in the country. death sentences, large numbers of internally displaced persons fleeing conflict zones, sectarian violence and attacks on minorities, including christians: the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. i also support and appreciate the efforts made in the implementation of the partnership and cooperation agreement between the eu and the republic of iraq, and i welcome the first meeting of the eu-iraq cooperation council on 20 january 2014.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution because, with this text, parliament is taking a very important position. international law prohibits arbitrary killings. this text is the first step towards the total prohibition of the use of this humble weapon. their lack of precision, their targeting civilians and their unlawfulness under international law makes drones an instrument of state terrorism. for this reason is important for the eu to take action toward their regulation and banning.
in writing. - the use of armed drones in the hottest parts of the world has increased in the last ten years; the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire. seven member states, including italy, have signed a letter of intent with the european defence agency for a study on the joint production of medium-altitude and long-range vehicles, which could be used to strike military targets or, alternatively, to monitor the flow of migrants in the mediterranean sea, but it remains clear that no specific legislation on the use of military drones exists at present. i therefore support this motion for a resolution on the adoption of a strong and common eu position to regulate the use of drones in the various member states, and i also believe that drones should be banned for uses other than strictly strategic or for combating terrorism, thus avoiding civilian deaths.
in writing. - the practice of extrajudicial targeted killing must be stopped as soon as possible, as it violates the law on which the eu bases its external action. each member state should ensure that its armed forces do not commit such violations, while recognising the increasing role of drones in war situations, in particular urban warfare, in preserving the lives of soldiers and enabling low-risk, long-range reconnaissance and surveillance operations. i also agree that the commission should provide a comprehensive survey of the current state of affairs, developments and scientific research on drones, to assess where the technology is and how it can be used effectively and legally.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this text because it stresses the importance of reinforcing the culture of the fundamental rights in member states. our foreign policy can only be credible if we must apply the same standards we apply to our international partners. we must be severe with those member states which do not comply with respect for fundamental rights. in particular, we should concentrate our efforts in the fields of immigration, asylum and on respect for vulnerable populations.
in writing. - the period of economic and financial crisis is also having a negative effect on the protection of human rights, which is why, as a woman and a citizen, i believe that the european union must be able to ensure that its system for safeguarding fundamental rights is continuously strengthened and improved. the individual and his rights must always be at the centre, and any abuse and violence by the authorities must be avoided, even in the sphere of private life, where, unfortunately, violations often occur in the member states. i voted in favour of the objective of improving the way the eu promotes and strengthens a genuine culture of fundamental rights in countries. this must be done especially on the issue of violence against women, where the data show that between 20 and 25 per cent of women have suffered physical violence at least once in their lives, which i believe the eu must address by ensuring by all means that the values enshrined in article 2 of its founding treaty are respected, protected and promoted. to this end, i agree with the proposal to set up a 'new copenhagen mechanism' to work in this direction, monitoring the application of its principles in each member state.
in writing. - the report aims to highlight some of the critical issues concerning the respect for fundamental rights within the european union. the point i want to make for a moment is that people with disabilities are still denied many of their basic rights in many european countries. italy is unfortunately no exception, as the recent appeal of the european court of justice on numerous issues, which i had already pointed out in 2011, also demonstrates. the right to mobility, for example, is still far from being guaranteed and public transport in our country is certainly not adapted to the needs of a disabled person. there are many ideas in this text, but they risk remaining only intentions on paper: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the member states, with the support of the european union, must guarantee these rights, because it is not possible for these critical issues to recur constantly with very few positive developments each year.
in writing. - i fully share the spirit of the proposal, as it emphasizes those fundamental rights on which the whole of the european construction is based and on which the eu's action in the world should be centred. the eu charter of fundamental rights is a historic achievement and a document which defines the very essence of the union. i agree that the eu must become a full promoter of the rights it defines and defends, even within the european borders themselves, where, on the contrary, violations of those rights still persist, violations which every european citizen should take for granted and which are guaranteed by these institutions.
in writing. - the european arrest warrant is a key instrument for prosecuting crimes across national borders, such as terrorism, drug trafficking, corruption. however, practical problems of application risk rendering its effectiveness in vain. in order not to undermine the credibility of the european arrest warrant and of union initiatives in the field of criminal justice in general, a number of problems need to be addressed: incomplete and inconsistent implementation of the framework decision, in particular the failure to respect the deadlines, the deficiencies in the framework decision and the incomplete and unbalanced nature of the union criminal justice area. i therefore agree with the need for revision, also to better protect the procedural rights of suspects and accused persons, to improve conditions of detention and to prevent any abuse of the mandate itself.
in writing. - this report highlights some shortcomings in the current european arrest warrant legislation and, in particular, in the three commission reports on the implementation of the 2002 framework decision. after a careful analysis of the functioning of the system, some critical points and suspicious elements have emerged in relation to the procedures of the defendants, the non-compliance with the deadlines, the poor prison conditions, the abuse of the european arrest warrant, etc. however, in order not to undermine the very credibility of the european arrest warrant and of eu action in the field of criminal justice, it is necessary to review the regulatory apparatus in order to restore mutual trust and to continue to pursue the objective of an eu criminal justice area. as a parliament we believe that ad hoc legislative measures should be taken at union level to reform the functioning of the european arrest warrant, thus ensuring greater trust between member states and a better balance in the eu criminal justice area.
in writing. - i voted in favour of amending the framework decision of 1 january 2004 on the implementation of the european arrest warrant, as it still has several shortcomings in the member states due to its incomplete and inconsistent implementation, in particular as regards the failure to respect the deadlines, the deficiencies in the decision itself and the unbalanced nature of the criminal justice area of the union. in some cases, to overcome these shortcomings, some member states have intervened at national level to make legal or regulatory changes to the procedures, but this has resulted in a lack of consistency of views, for example on issues such as extradition. i therefore believe that legislative measures at eu level are necessary to reform the functioning of the european arrest warrant in order to ensure a better balance in the community criminal justice area.
in writing. - the system of operation of the european arrest warrant works well overall, but i agree with the rapporteur that some improvements can be made, in particular to establish definitively the mutual trust between the member states which is necessary for the proper functioning of the framework decision. the main problem is the incomplete and inconsistent implementation of the framework decision, in particular the non-compliance with the deadlines, the gaps in the framework decision and the incomplete and unbalanced nature of the union's criminal justice area.
in writing. - in order not to undermine the credibility of the european arrest warrant and of the union's initiatives in the field of criminal justice in general, a number of problems need to be addressed. there are several causes at the root of the operational problems of the european arrest warrant: incomplete and inconsistent implementation of the framework decision, in particular the failure to respect the deadlines, the deficiencies in the framework decision and the incomplete and unbalanced nature of the union criminal justice area.
in writing. - i welcome the motion for a resolution tabled by mr jadot and mr moreira on the application of forestry legislation and i welcome the efforts made by indonesia to try to solve its problems of widespread illegal logging and related illegal trade. at the same time, i believe it is important to expand the coverage of the legality verification system for indonesian timber, ensuring that the verified legal timber is separated from the unverified. as requested by my colleagues, i think it is important to call on the commission to urge the indonesian government to ensure that the rights of traditional communities to forests are protected, that they are given free, prior and informed consent and that they are compensated for the loss of access to forest land. i also welcome the request to verify that the independent monitoring of civil society is carried out without violence, threats or any form of abuse and that the indonesian government ensures the continuation and strengthening of the implementation and operation of the indonesian timber legality verification system.
in writing. - the motion for a resolution on the situation in venezuela reflects the eu's concern at the latest serious developments in the latin american state. in the light of the bloody events of last february, which resulted in the death of innocent victims and a large number of wounded, it is our duty to condemn all acts of violence that have occurred in venezuela and to express our condolences and solidarity with the relatives of the victims. the eu is deeply concerned about some of the recurrent and difficult-to-eradicate phenomena in the bolivarian republic of venezuela, including corruption, violations of freedom of expression and other human rights, high crime rates and excessive inflation. in this resolution parliament calls on the venezuelan government to ensure that a climate of peace and solidarity is maintained in the country and that fundamental human rights are respected.
in writing. - at a time when all our attention is focused on the ukrainian crisis, the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy has done well to ask for a discussion on the situation in venezuela to be included on the agenda, and the epp has done well to table a motion for a resolution in which it argues that the reaction of the government of president maduro is unjustifiable and to be condemned. i share the call on the venezuelan regime to respect the civil rights of freedom of expression and assembly, and i agree to reject in full the censorship and restrictions on freedom of information by the authorities on the national and international media. i think it is sensible and right to call for the immediate disarmament and dissolution of the uncontrolled armed groups of a pro-governmental character, and i also hope for the release of all the students arrested during the student protests of the past few weeks. respect for pluralism, political diversity and the diversity of opinion are fundamental elements of a democratic system, elements which the european union has always supported and will always support. i therefore wholeheartedly support the motion for a resolution and hope that the situation can be resolved peacefully and with due respect for the rights of the venezuelan people.
in writing. - we must be clear about the serious situation in venezuela where an uncontrollable war has been waged against the entire people. various terrorist groups have seized venezuela, targeting oil and wealth, spreading terror and violating human rights. there are incidents of kidnapping, violence, torture and murder of young venezuelans and europeans who peacefully express their dissent. the population is starving and dying of disease and is suffering violence of all kinds up to the loss of their own lives. yesterday, 30 tons of missiles were loaded onto trucks targeting civilians and the united states, considered enemies. the costs are high for europeans and venezuelans alike. with this vote we are calling for serious action by the union to form a common front against the russian-cuban domination in venezuela, which is being consolidated by the announcement of its air bases in the country, a serious and grave threat to the entire american continent.
in writing. - i would like to express my full support for the resolution tabled by the socialist and democratic group and voted on today in plenary on the dramatic situation in venezuela in recent weeks. i feel a special connection with this country, which in the 1950s was the land of emigration for thousands of calabrian citizens, including my father and my uncles. from their stories and through my various visits to caracas, i understood the enormous sacrifices made by millions of european citizens who emigrated to make venezuela a democratic and economically developed country. in recent days i have received numerous reports from my fellow emigrants, who have described a shocking situation: lack of basic food, curfew by the national guard and very heavy restrictions on personal freedoms for these reasons, i expect timely and daily action from president barroso and the high representative of the union for foreign affairs ashton so that the european union can take all possible action in its power to restore normalcy and a democratic regime in venezuela.
in writing. - i support this resolution condemning the violence and human rights violations that have been taking place in venezuela in recent weeks. i believe that the eu has a moral obligation to intervene with the venezuelan government authorities to stop these widespread and systematic violations, which have already caused several victims. as promoters of the fundamental rights enshrined in the eu charter of fundamental rights, we cannot remain silent in the face of this tragedy.
in writing. - i think that further harmonisation of visa procedures, including common rules on the issue of visas, is to be considered positive for the union and for third country nationals wishing to visit it. the motion for a resolution clearly and pragmatically points out the aspects which should be considered, improved and implemented for a more effective visa policy. i agree with the comments and the content of the proposal and therefore vote in favour. in particular, i support the call for increased local schengen cooperation to improve the implementation of the short-stay visa code and to improve the application of the current visa acquis. i share the proposals for the future: further harmonisation of procedures will have to be accompanied by genuinely common rules on the issue of visas, as would a common european mechanism for issuing short-stay visas. a better exchange of information between the commission and parliament on the negotiations would be a good thing, and i welcome the intention to set up a contact group on visa policy within the libe committee and the invitation to the presidency of the council, the member states and the commission to attend the meetings of the group.
in writing. - i believe that further harmonisation of visa requirements is necessary for the future, as it brings benefits and savings for both citizens and governments of the member states. of course, the risks of such harmonization, particularly in relation to illegal immigration or terrorism, should not be underestimated, but by continuing to implement the current control instruments and suggesting new ones, we will be able to create a functioning, efficient and secure system.
in writing. - the fisheries sector is a sector known not only for its particular productivity but also for its specific masculine connotation. in fact, the presence of women in the sector has always been constant, but silent. despite the socioeconomic importance of women in the fisheries and aquaculture sector, there is little dispute about the respect of equal conditions of access to employment in the sector, non-discrimination on grounds of gender and the recognition of the contribution of women to the sustainable development of fisheries. for these reasons, i believe that the reform of the fisheries policy should give greater weight to the social role of women in the sector, in order to contribute to the achievement and recognition of equal rights, through the granting of aid, the establishment of training courses, the implementation of a system of analysis of data and indicators broken down by sex and the development of gender policies based on concrete data.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that it is appropriate to strengthen the socioeconomic role of women in the fisheries and aquaculture sector within the framework of the reform of the common fisheries policy. strengthening women's rights in key sectors of the eu economy is part of a macro-strategy to promote gender equality at all levels. a joint hearing of the femm and pech committees analysed the situation of women in the fisheries sector, their role in creating new job opportunities in coastal communities and new measures to support the creation of women's networks and the exchange of good practice. the objective to be pursued is to integrate women more and more into the fisheries sector, in such a way as to allow equal opportunities and to open up good employment prospects for the future, improving the social, economic and employment conditions of women and guaranteeing full access to the labour market in the fisheries sector.
in writing. - as a woman, i believe that our role and our rights should never be questioned, even in what are traditionally considered "second-rate" areas. the scant and sometimes missing statistics show us that 100 000 women are currently employed in the fisheries sector, but it was only in 2010 when the hearing on 'women and sustainable development in the fisheries sector' was held that the real conditions of hardship faced by women in the sector were revealed and the need to promote greater participation and better protection of women was therefore evident, so i voted in favour of this measure. for many women, and i am thinking particularly of mothers, fishing is the only means of economic support for them and their families, so disciplining their working conditions, making them equal to those of men, could be a solution. women, as well as young people, are a category which, in a historical period such as the present one, is most affected by the effects of the economic recession, and i therefore believe that strengthening the associations and networks already existing in europe can ensure them greater visibility and support in any difficult situation through better coordination of the various actions.
in writing. - as regards the progress made towards gender equality in the common fisheries policy, i could not help but vote in favour of the report by mr caraballo and mrs romeva i rueda, which aims to recognise the role of women in the fisheries and aquaculture sector. women are also important for the sustainable development of those european regions that depend on fisheries. women's work in fisheries and related sectors is often invisible and in many cases lacks a fixed salary and social benefits. this report highlights the need for greater recognition of the work of women in this field, given the rarity of the subject and the lack of legal and social recognition. it is necessary to bring working conditions on a par with those of men and finally to recognise the contribution of women to the sustainable development of fisheries, as they are among those most affected by the employment crisis. this will only be possible after the removal of those social, economic and administrative barriers which do not allow women to participate in the production and processing process on an equal footing with their male colleagues.
in writing. - the report rightly emphasises the contribution of women workers in the artisanal fisheries sector, also considering that women and young people are the most affected categories in times of economic crisis. i agree that the new regulation underlying the common fisheries policy will have to define its objectives clearly and give value to the work of women in the sector. in doing so, the new policy will have to pursue the objectives of the principle of equality, historical recognition of the socioeconomic role of women in the fisheries sector, non-discrimination on grounds of sex, social measures and the necessary aid for unemployment, promotion of their inclusion in committees and advisory councils and the search for financial instruments and the necessary social measures and aid for women workers during periods of biological detention.
in writing. - women's work in fishing and related activities is carried out in most cases invisibly, complementing the work of their partners, in an increasingly difficult economic environment, especially for family businesses. for these reasons i voted in favour of this report, which is intended to consolidate the knowledge, recommendations and initiatives of the committee on fisheries and the committee on women's rights on the role of women in the reform of the common fisheries policy.
in writing. - i consider mr castex's report to be well done, full of concrete requests to the european commission on a subject which i consider important for the market in culture and artistic creation, an integral part of the digital economy. i particularly appreciate some of the requests made by the rapporteur. the first is that the commission should submit a legislative proposal on the harmonisation of certain aspects of copyright and related rights in the information society, including a provision for full harmonisation of exceptions and limitations to private copying. the second is to carry out a study of the essential elements of private copying in order to arrive at a common definition, clarification of the term 'fair compensation' and the concept of 'harm' suffered by the author as a result of unauthorised reproduction by the rightholder for private use. the third requirement is transparency as to the destination of the proceeds of the private copying levies and for consumers as to the amount, purpose and use of the levies they pay. finally, i find it interesting that 25 per cent of the revenue from private copying should be used to promote the creative arts and the live entertainment sector. for these reasons, i vote in favour.
in writing. - the cultural sector represents a significant share of the eu's aggregate gdp and should therefore be effectively protected and enhanced. the report fully addresses the problem of national fragmentation in copyright, calling for reform that facilitates access to and increases the circulation of cultural products. on the contrary, the current situation is marked by a wide disparity in the different national systems for collecting levies, distorting competition in the internal market. i therefore fully support the objectives set out in the report, namely the objectives of a single charge, effective information for the benefit of consumers and more effective refund procedures.
it's a blue-card question. i'm not sure what it is. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this report also mentions voluntary termination of pregnancy, often dictated by economic hardship. do you think that when this is the reason for this painful choice, the institutions should intervene by helping the woman to continue the pregnancy or by promoting greater access to abortion?
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are here today in the plenary, having finally reached the final debate, at least for this parliamentary term, on this regulation on seeds and plant reproductive material. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement. commissioner, i do not see commissioner cioloş, but commissioner borg is here. as you are well aware, the european commission, and in particular dg sanco, presented on 6 may a package of measures to address the safety and health standards for the entire agri-food chain. this package included the regulation on seeds and propagating plants. i have been working on a report as rapporteur on the basis of the commission's proposal, in which i have tried to give space to the various sensitivities and problems which have come to me from the industry, experts and organic organisations: the commission has already made a number of proposals, including the need to clarify certain new concepts introduced in the commission proposal. this is also to create certainty for operators in the sector and sound market regulation. the issues of bureaucratization and facilitating access for small firms to commercial operations and ensuring the survival of all non-commercial operators were also of particular concern. the reform of the seed rules has generated great interest and long-awaited results. the lack of clarity on some of the issues dealt with in the proposal and the difficulty of understanding the impact, in the absence of an impact study, that this would have on the sector, was reflected in a number of amendments tabled, over 1400, only the cap reform has had more amendments than this text. the commission has already taken a number of decisions on the basis of the proposals contained in the white paper. we're here to ask you to withdraw your proposal. to present a new one to the new parliament which will be formed after the elections in may. our fears about the commission's text are also related to the fact that the proposal for a regulation contains a large number of delegated acts, some 90, which do not allow this parliament to work with transparency and clarity on a key issue for the sector, deferring to future decisions precisely those key issues such as some of the new concepts on heterogeneous or niche material on which the european parliament cannot and does not want to sign delegations to the commission in blank. we want to play our role as co-legislators, but not as delegates. we want to play the role of co-decision-maker and we want the possibility of a text on this which would allow us to co-decide with the commission, not to delegate even 90 delegated acts to the commission; i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. there is a will to tackle it, but to tackle it to the end, without too many references to delegated acts, without time constraints, without a bureaucratic burden which, when it goes from 12 directives to a regulation, inevitably comes to weigh on the operators as a clear constraint, as a bureaucratic burden. and that 's where i want to end . the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. a single umbrella in which many topics, not necessarily related to each other, are all brought together. i hope that this debate, commissioner, will be concluded with: i am pleased to note that the commission has taken the necessary steps to ensure that the amendments tabled by the committee on agriculture are adopted. (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the rapporteur and all the members have set out many of the reasons which led our committee to vote by a very large majority to reject the proposal. it was not an easy assessment, because we did not want to abdicate our role and our prerogatives as co-legislators which the treaty gives us, and that is why, initially, despite having many misgivings about the commission's proposal, we started our amendment work with a sense of duty, which also resulted in 1 400 amendments. however, it became clear during our work that it would not have been possible to arrive at a balanced text which took account of all the critical points. from the institutional point of view, parliament deplores the excessive use of delegated acts, commissioner. there are about 90 in this proposal, many of them on important and sensitive subjects. in addition, 12 directives have been combined into one regulation. i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken this initiative. we therefore ask the commission to withdraw the proposal, to take account of parliament's position, to reassure our small micro-enterprises, so numerous in this sector, and to send a clear message to the many non-governmental organisations and european citizens who have made their voices heard in recent months.
the rapporteur. - commissioner, you started by saying that the problem with this report was a lack of communication. if that were the case, we'd all be fools; i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. it would be foolish for all the political groups to support this rejection proposal and the commission's request today for the proposal to be withdrawn. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not affected by the crisis. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. so it is probably not just a communication problem, the problem is probably, because if it were, we would all be imbeciles, except you, commissioner, of course. i do not consider myself an imbecile, and i do not think this parliament is made up of imbeciles. i simply ask you to evaluate the outcome of the debate. you said it takes more time and more moments of comparison. the commission has had a moment of confrontation today and has recorded a substantially unanimous opinion from parliament telling it to withdraw the proposal, also because some colleagues have said so and i repeat it, apart from the individual issues there is also a dynamic linked to the timing, the upcoming elections, the expiry of the legislature which has not allowed and which does not allow the matter to be tackled with serenity. as a commissioner, i know that you respect this parliament and i know that you do not think that we are all fools, so i ask you to take note of the unprecedented unanimity in the committee on this subject and to withdraw the proposal. it would be a dignified performance of his duties and a demonstration of his respect for this parliament if he did so.
the debate is closed.
the agenda includes the report by mr sven giegold, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, with recommendations to the commission on the review of the european system of financial supervision (esfs) (2013/2166 ((inl)) (a7-0133/2014).
member of the commission. - mr[nbsp ]president, on behalf of the commission i would like to thank the rapporteur, sven giegold, the committee on economic and monetary affairs and the european parliament as a whole for the work done on this report on the review of the european system of financial supervision (esfs). the report underlines the important contribution the esfs has made to enhancing the quality and consistency of financial supervision in the internal market. the esfs was established to address the inefficient, uneven and fragmented regulation and supervision of financial institutions and markets, as revealed by the crisis, and the lack of coordination among supervisors. the report confirms that, overall, the authorities have lived up to the expectations we had of them. the report also points to some areas for improvement, particularly with regard to the governance of the authorities, which would benefit from a stronger focus on union values and interests. we very much welcome the contribution this report makes to the review. based on our own assessment and consultations, we agree that the authorities are cornerstones of the comprehensive reform process that has been initiated since the outbreak of the financial crisis. they have successfully built functioning organisations, started to deliver on their mandates and developed their own profiles. their roles should therefore be preserved and further strengthened. we acknowledge that the establishment of a banking union will impact on the functioning of the esfs, but it does not call into question its existence or the need for it. on the contrary, the european supervision authorities may have an even more crucial role to play than they do today in ensuring consistent application of eu law throughout the internal market. the recently-reviewed system of governance of the european banking authority (eba) reflects that role. the european systemic risk board (esrb) will remain the macro-supervisor for the union as a whole, with a mandate unique in geographical scope and in the variety of sectors covered. an assessment of the interaction between the esfs and the banking union would be premature at this stage, but this aspect will be closely monitored in the future. we appreciate the report’s consideration of some of the key issues concerning the functioning of the authorities. for example, we agree that due consideration should be given to how best to ensure that relevant decisions are taken in the european interest. we also concur that further streamlining of the funding arrangements should be considered, in order to ensure that the authorities can fulfil their mandates while taking into account the existing budgetary constraints at both national and european level. moreover, we agree that the decision-making process in the esrb general board could be streamlined. the commission takes note of the recommendations addressed to it in the report and will carefully consider them when preparing its policy response in this area.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 11 march, at 12 noon.
the agenda includes the report by sophia in 't veld, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on public access to documents (article 104 (7) of the regulation) between 2011 and 2013 (2013/2155 ((ini)) (a7-0148/2014).
member of the commission. - mr president, i wish to thank the rapporteur, ms sophia in ’t veld, for underlining again the crucial importance of the principle of transparency in enabling democratic participation and fostering public trust in the european institutions. it is certainly the joint responsibility of the council, parliament and the commission to ensure the appropriate transparency in these institutions. this joint responsibility of the institutions also applies to one of the most significant instruments in the field of transparency – the right of access to documents implemented by the so-called ‘access to documents’ regulation. an ever-increasing number of documents are being disclosed following requests from citizens under this regulation. the commission, for instance, handles more than 6[nbsp ]000 access requests per year. this illustrates that citizens are increasingly aware of their rights in this area. the commission remains the institution handling by far the largest number of requests for access to documents. for instance, more than four out of five requests are granted at the first stage, and there is a relatively low average number of confirmatory applications – approximately 200 per year. the commission remains clearly committed to implementing access to documents legislation as fully, effectively and positively as ever. in doing so, the commission takes full account of the comprehensive case law of the court of justice of the european union, which has developed over time and to which the rapporteur herself has made reference. the rapporteur is putting much emphasis on the issue of trilogues, and given the role of trilogues in legislative procedures, it is clearly the primary responsibility of the co-legislator to define the appropriate level of transparency in this area. the commission supports the general aim to make the legislative process transparent and easily understandable. the right balance must be struck between transparency and the efficiency of the legislative process. as suggested by ms sophia in ’t veld, the commission is ready to re-examine, together with the council and parliament, the format of our annual reports on access to documents, with a view to making them more comparative. finally, as far as the review of the access to documents regulation is concerned, the commission remains open to a genuine discussion with the two branches of the legislature on the basis of the existing commission proposals.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 11 march, at 12 noon.
the agenda includes the annual report by mr jarosław leszek wałęsa, on behalf of the committee on petitions, on the activities of the committee on petitions in 2013 (2014/2008 ((ini)) (a7-0131/2014)
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i too am very pleased that we have come to the end of a long and demanding debate, for a reason which is in addition to the one you have already heard my colleagues stress, and i am pleased that eiopa has been modified in a positive way also by the work of the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs, giving it new functions, broadening the scope, making it more transparent. the reason for my sharing is the field of application, in particular occupational and occupational pensions. in the system of social security coverage which is being extended and standardized today, the first pillar will be very important, as it has always been in the history of social security, but gradually the second and third pillars will have to gain weight and thus areas in which insurance activity will be important. we are defending the interests of millions of working people through surveillance and transparency, and this, in my view, is worth the hard work and the positive outcome.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the eib would do well to concentrate its activities more on europe rather than seeking guarantees for its investments across borders. we must not forget that the eib's money is the money of the member states, it is our money and italy is the main shareholder. i would therefore like our money to be used in the best possible way and above all not to be scattered around the world. i would like to know why the eib has invested 600 million euros in the ankara-istanbul high-speed railway, 650 million in the bosphorus tunnel, 500 million in the renewal of turkish airlines, which is now one of the best airlines in the world, in the face of our alitalia, which is sailing in bad water. our money goes into projects like this, across our borders, while our infrastructure is stuck in the 1960s. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we help competition, not our own businesses: it was madness! the eib should refocus and concentrate its efforts on europe, not facilitating other countries that are our direct competitors!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as vice-chairman of the delegation for relations with the iranian parliament, i would like to inform you that the next plenary session will be attended by a delegation of iranian members of parliament. it would be appropriate before that date for lady ashton, who has recently been to iran, to be able to report to parliament on the objectives set and the results achieved. so i ask the chair to convey this message to our lady ashton.
thank you, we'll get the message. i would remind you, however, that vice-president ashton will be in brussels in april.
with this applause we have also remembered these victims. the debate is closed.
the next item is the vote on the motion for a resolution (doc.
member of the commission. - madam president, the commission has followed the debate very closely and takes due note of all the comments that have been made. however, i would like to reiterate the commission’s position of not withdrawing the proposal and to highlight two points. first: that the marketing rules for traditional varieties are made considerably lighter. registration will be possible without any previous testing, while quantitative and area restrictions for marketing are abolished. the proposal allows for more responsibility to be taken by operators in the form of testing and certification under official supervision. moreover, the specific needs of organic production are taken into account in respect of variety testing and through the new approach to heterogeneous materials. let me reiterate that the commission takes the opinions and concerns expressed by the members of the european parliament yesterday evening very seriously and wants to discuss with you how to improve the present proposal.
president of the agri committee. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, despite the fact that yesterday's debate in this house clearly and unequivocally asked the commission to withdraw the proposal, we note that the commissioner insists on not taking parliament's wishes into account. i therefore ask the house, in accordance with rule 56 of the rules of procedure and with the support of the majority of the committee on agriculture and its rapporteur, to vote on the draft legislative resolution to confirm our intention to reject this proposal and thus conclude the first reading.
that concludes the voting.
the next item is the explanations of vote.
thank you, mr audy, we have noted your requests and will respond in writing.
in writing. - the present report aims, on the one hand, to support the commission's desire to align the existing provisions on comitology with the delegated and implementing acts and, on the other hand, to simplify the powers delegated to the commission in order to safeguard parliament's prerogatives. in my view, the need to optimise the collection processes for statistics on inland waterway transport is now clear. moreover, in order to further consolidate the importance of inland waterway navigation, decisions must be based on objective, comparable and reliable statistics which produce verifiable data on the actual results achieved in this area. the naiades ii programme was adopted with the aim of making structural changes in terms of infrastructure, jobs and skills in inland waterway transport so that the sector can make a substantial contribution to the eu 2020 strategy. i agree with the rapporteur that water transport should be given the same importance as air, rail, etc. by introducing statistical data collection covering several parameters and making compulsory the collection of some data which has been carried out on an optional basis.
in writing. - the lichtenberger report does not make any particularly critical points and is intended to support the development of trade in goods transport by waterways which could also have a positive impact on our territory, and for these reasons i have voted in favour of it.
in writing. - in order to make the work of collecting statistics on inland waterway transport really useful and comprehensive, i welcome the proposal put forward by the committee on transport which raises some criticisms of the methodology of data collection and proposes some amendments to the text to remedy them. in particular, also in view of the greater completeness of the data collection for statistical purposes foreseen for the other transport sectors (maritime, air, rail, road), it is considered necessary that statistics also include passenger vessels. the purpose of collecting such data is to make inland waterway transport increasingly efficient, seeing in it a very high potential also in terms of environmental protection, and to implement actions aimed at achieving the objectives set out in the eu 2020 strategy, therefore it is appropriate to make the collection of some of the most relevant data mandatory and no longer only optional.
in writing. - the collection of data on passengers and goods carried is necessary above all to develop an appropriate inland waterway transport policy and to ensure consistency in the collection of statistical data for all modes of transport. i therefore believe that this opportunity should be seized to optimise the collection of statistics which must be objective, comparable and reliable. i also agree with the rapporteur that inland waterway transport should play an important role in passenger transport as well as in freight transport, since it is a cleaner mode of transport and also helps to reduce traffic congestion. however , it should also be noted that fleet renewal and the construction of more appropriate infrastructure are necessary to be able to relaunch this type of transport .
in writing. - whereas regulation (ec) no 1365/2006 lays down common rules for the production of community statistics on inland waterway transport, the commission stressed the need to align the existing provisions on comitology with the delegated and implementing acts with a view to adopting certain measures in order to preserve the prerogatives of parliament. i voted in favour of the proposal because i believe that inland waterway transport plays an important role, not only for freight but also for passenger transport, and that the renewal or adaptation of the fleet would bring environmental benefits.
in writing. - common rules for the collection of data for statistical purposes on inland waterway transport will allow the structural changes needed to achieve the objectives of the eu 2020 strategy. the priority now is to improve the infrastructure of the sector, in full compliance with environmental standards and to boost employment in the whole sector.
in writing. - the commission's intention to align the existing provisions on comitology with the delegated and implementing acts is commendable, but the powers delegated to the commission should be simplified and parliament's prerogatives preserved. statistics should be objective and comparable, but they are not sufficient at present to guide and evaluate eu policy in this area. in addition, inland waterways must also be seen as a means of transport for passengers, not just for freight, because it is a cleaner mode of transport, as it is not hampered by traffic congestion. a problem highlighted in the report is the lack of adequate infrastructure.
in writing. - in order to strengthen the eu's economic governance, it is necessary to focus on improving the statistical control system for data relevant to the macroeconomic imbalances procedure (mip). this is a strategy aimed at the rapid identification and monitoring of macroeconomic imbalances, while ensuring the quality of the statistical data collected. in addition to welcoming the proposal for a regulation, i welcome the amendments proposed by the rapporteur in terms of alignment with the strengthened economic governance framework and the existing legislation on european statistics, the transmission of data to the commission, providing deadlines for the notification and reporting of data, dialogue visits aimed at assessing the quality of statistics and the strengthening of the role of the european parliament by involving it more in the process of monitoring and verifying the data collected.
in writing. - i found the eppink report analysing the proposal for a regulation on the provision and quality of statistics on macroeconomic imbalances to be balanced and to be shared, and for these reasons i supported it by voting in favour of it.
in writing. - the report deals with a highly sensitive political issue: building the factual basis on which european governance decision-making processes are based. in this area, there have been major events, such as the bailout of greece, and small daily controversies, such as those which arise after each statement by the commissioners on the objectives assigned to the states. the report touches the raw nerve of a union which is still largely imperfect, marked by processes of renationalisation of the economies and by recurrent temptations to return to a traditional policy of influence by the individual states. on the other hand, it would be unfair not to recognise the efforts of those who are working for effective integration, which is guided by the values of solidarity and subsidiarity. i think that this is a characteristic of the report's forecasts, particularly where it envisages a greater role for parliaments in economic governance, effective independence from eurostat, a comprehensive and plural monitoring system which prevents instrumental and tendentious interpretations and which favours a government based on the values of equity, realism and genuine europeanism. i would also say with equal honesty that we should keep a close eye on the actual independence of the national statistical offices. one of the most serious problems is that european governance is too much affected by internal political dynamics.
in writing. - having very reliable and detailed statistics can always determine the success of one policy rather than another, which is why i think it is very important to adopt this resolution whose objective is to increase the quality of statistics which are used to assess any macroeconomic imbalances. the two-step approach advocated by the european parliament is adopted, first with a deposit of interest (0.05% of gdp) and then with fines in favour of the european stability mechanism. moreover, the geographical scope is not limited to the euro area but applies to all 28 member states, so that all states will be subject to the same rules.
in writing. - whereas the proposal aims to ensure the quality and timeliness of the production, supply and quality monitoring of statistical data produced or transmitted for the purposes of the procedures for the detection of macroeconomic imbalances, as well as the prevention and correlation of excessive imbalances within the union; whereas the proposal for a regulation aims to align the economic governance framework with the existing european statistics legislation and to clarify the transmission of data to the commission by improving the efficiency of the proposed procedures ('dialogue visits'). in view of the opinion of the econ committee, the committee responsible for the substance of the proposal and the suggestions received from the regi and empl committees, i have voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - the overall objective of the commission proposal is undoubtedly to be supported and shared, in order to strengthen the economic governance of the union through improving the statistical control system of data relevant to the psm, but some key elements need to be strengthened. first, by making the proposed framework more similar to the procedures on the prevention and correction of macroeconomic imbalances and on the implementing measures for the correction of excessive macroeconomic imbalances in the euro area. in addition, alignment with existing legislation on european statistics, in particular regulation (ec) no 223/2009 of the european parliament and of the council, should be carried out. i support the rapporteur in the need to clarify the process of transmitting, notifying and communicating data to the commission and, in conclusion, i agree with the rapporteur that parliament should be more involved, together with the national parliaments.
in writing. - as a full member of the itre committee and in line with the vote in favour on 13 february 2014 on this subject, i voted in favour of the recommendation on the extension of the agreement for scientific and technological cooperation between the european community and the government of the united states of america. in the light of the legislation in force in this area since 1998 and in the light of the draft council decision, i consider it essential to provide new inputs to eu-us cooperation in the field of science and technology, as it can only bring benefits to both sides. the eu and the us are also committed to continuing to work towards improving bilateral relations.
in writing. - i found the sartori report, which analyses the extension of the ec-us agreement on balanced and uncritical scientific and technological cooperation, and i therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. - a third renewal of the agreement seems justified, also in view of the excellent results of the reports: only data on us fp7 projects in the areas of health sciences, ict, biotechnology, agri-food are considered. there is no need to dwell on the value of this agreement in us-eu relations, including in the perspective of the not easy negotiation of the free trade agreement, which is expected to affect no less than 40% of global gdp. i would like to emphasize something that, until the 2008 crisis, was not in the forefront, but which has now become a real emergency: the so-called brain drain. the smart and shared immigration policy that the united states has adopted is taking advantage of the lack of opportunity for our young people. the risk is that skilled migration - which is always a human drama and a mortgage on recovery for entire countries - will be directed outside europe's borders. the treaty, by confirming a single perimeter and by envisaging a free trade scenario, can also be useful in retaining in the european area the skills which are indispensable to maintain our technological advantage, which is a key factor in productivity. i therefore support the report by mrs sartori with a strong vote in favour.
in writing. - i welcome the extension of the ec-us agreement on scientific and technological cooperation, which was signed in washington in december 1997 and entered into force on 14 october 1998. the agreement, which was already extended for a further period of five years by the council decision of 30 march 2009, remained in force until 14 october 2013. i therefore believe that it is in the interests of both parties to approve this report by mrs sartori, as it would allow the continuity of scientific and technological relations between the united states and the european union to be maintained, with positive economic implications for both sides. relations with our american partner are fundamental and historically of an excellent standard. the usa is a model for the european union to follow in terms of democracy, respect for the rule of law and civil liberties. as an alternate member of the delegation for relations with the united states, i can say that relations with the us administration are moving in the direction of mutual respect, sharing and fruitful exchange of experience and a common vision of the future of the west and its relations with other countries in the world. i therefore vote in favour of further consolidating this strategic partnership.
in writing. - having regard to the draft council decision on the extension of the agreement for scientific and technological cooperation between the european community and the government of the united states of america, i have voted in favour of the draft and i congratulate the president-in-office.
in writing. - the loss of biodiversity is a current and alarming problem. it is estimated that one in four mammal species, one in eight bird species, and more than one in three amphibian species are threatened with extinction worldwide. i therefore support the european parliament's approval of the european union's ratification of the nagoya protocol. this protocol, on access to genetic resources and the fair and equitable sharing of the benefits arising from their use, will reverse the global trend towards biodiversity loss and will enable biodiversity to be conserved and used sustainably. the protocol provides for greater legal certainty and transparency, encouraging progress in research on genetic resources.
in writing. - the nagoya protocol, together with the world strategic plan for biodiversity 2011-2020 and the intergovernmental platform on biodiversity and ecosystem services (ipbes), provides the regulatory basis for ensuring access to energy resources, the fair sharing of the benefits arising from their use and the fulfilment of the obligations undertaken. the nagoya protocol provides for greater legal certainty and transparency for both providers and users of genetic resources. the aim of the nagoya protocol is to safeguard ecosystems and biodiversity by mobilising all the necessary resources, in this case financial resources. the report is a good example of the need to protect endangered species and the environment, which are too often compromised by human and social misconduct. by encouraging fair sharing of benefits and focusing on legal certainty and transparency, the nagoya protocol also aims to advance research on genetic resources in order to promote their responsible and sustainable use, while creating a fertile ground for human development and well-being.
in writing. - the belier report on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the nagoya protocol on access to genetic resources is agreeable and well thought out, and for these reasons i voted in favour of it.
in writing. - i consider the recommendation by mrs bélier to be positive and i am voting in favour of the european union ratifying the nagoya protocol. since the adoption of the 1992 convention on biological diversity in rio de janeiro, much progress has been made, but it is necessary to accelerate and show leadership on this issue, to come to the negotiating table in south korea in october 2014 at the next conference of the parties with real results from which to start. i consider the protocol to be positive for several reasons, including greater legal certainty and transparency for providers and users of genetic resources, and the fact that it helps to ensure the sharing of benefits and the creation of more predictable conditions for access to genetic resources. the protocol, by ensuring that only legally obtained genetic resources are used for prior informed consent and mutually agreed modalities, is also an important tool to counter biopiracy. preserving biodiversity and using it sustainably are objectives that i share and support with my vote in favour of the
in writing. - i think it is important to help projects, for example by farmers and local communities, which contribute to the conservation of biological diversity to become 'reliable collections' as defined in this regulation. i vote in favour of this.
in writing. - biodiversity is a resource and must be protected; however, the data paint an alarming picture: 60% of ecosystems have deteriorated in the last 50 years. such a development in the future would cause irreversible damage to the environment as well as economic and social consequences. biodiversity plays an essential role in many areas: the commission has also been active in the fields of scientific, technological, food, health and cosmetic research, to name just a few. conservation of the ecosystem is therefore an economic necessity as well as an ethical or moral duty. the nagoya protocol ensures a fair sharing of the benefits arising from the use of genetic resources and encourages the preservation of biological diversity. the european parties will have access to the resources they need and the countries with these resources will be entitled, on the basis of a bilateral agreement with the 'client' country, to benefit from the results obtained in research and development and will thus be motivated to conserve these resources.
in writing. - having regard to the council decision concerning the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the nagoya protocol to the convention on biological diversity on access to genetic resources and the fair and equitable sharing of benefits arising from their utilization, whereas the nagoya protocol is based on three pillars, namely access to genetic resources, benefit-sharing and compliance with obligations, it also provides greater legal certainty and transparency for both providers and users of genetic resources. taking into account that the nagoya protocol will enter into force shortly after 50 states have ratified it and that it is essential that the european union and all member states ratify it as soon as possible in order to maintain leadership and attend the first negotiations at the next conference of the parties in 2014, i voted in favour of the draft.
in writing. - compliance with the nagoya protocol will enable all the acceding countries to preserve biodiversity and its sustainable use. one in three species is now threatened with extinction, putting at risk ecosystems on which human survival depends: we can't delay any longer.
in writing. - the nagoya protocol can play a particularly important role in achieving a fair sharing of the benefits arising from the use of genetic resources in order to enable the conservation of biodiversity and its sustainable use. it is based on three fundamental pillars, namely access to genetic resources, sharing of benefits and compliance with obligations. the european union undoubtedly has a key role to play in the utilisation of genetic resources, so sustainable access to genetic resources is essential and needs to be strengthened by increased trust between international partners and a clear legislative framework. since it will enter into force after ratification by 50 states, it is essential that the union ratifies it as soon as possible.
in writing. - as the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) is designed to support workers affected by developments in world trade, the comunidad valenciana applied for the egf in 2013. the demand is driven by the structural changes in world trade flows due to globalisation. once it has been demonstrated that the parameters for the award of the egf under regulation (ec) no 1927/2006 are effectively met, the comunidad valenciana will be able to benefit from it. the eu textile market has been strongly affected since 2004 by strong competition from china and other far eastern countries. given the importance of the manufacturing sector for the comunidad valenciana and given that its economy is essentially based on the manufacture of footwear, textiles, etc., employment opportunities develop mainly within these sectors and the dependence on this type of production is such that if the egf were not granted to this region, workers would suffer greatly. i think it is appropriate, however, that the empl committee should be responsible for verifying the requirements for mobilising the egf under the traditional procedures in order to properly assess the applications submitted to the commission.
in writing. - i support the daerden report calling for the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund to support 300 workers in the textile sector in spain.
in writing. - in general, the effects of globalisation and the opening up of economies to international competition are positive, and european citizens can benefit from them on many occasions and in many places. globalisation boosts competitiveness and offers new prospects for growth and jobs. at other times, however, globalisation can have negative effects, damaging less competitive sectors and causing substantial job losses. i therefore believe that the establishment of the european globalisation adjustment fund is a positive step and, in this specific case, can really help the workers of the comunidad valenciana. i consider the measures proposed for the reintegration of the 300 redundant workers into the labour market to be concrete and noteworthy that the social partners, including the trade unions, were involved in the presentation of the request for intervention. i also believe that the coordinated package is fair and i welcome the fact that the overall amount of financial incentives is relatively limited. finally, i welcome the agreement reached between the european parliament and the council on the new fund regulation and i am in favour of helping workers and businesses, who are certainly going through a difficult period, as quickly as possible.
in writing. - the importance of improving the employment prospects of all workers through appropriate training and the recognition of skills and competences acquired during the worker's professional career; it is expected that the training provided under the coordinated package will be adapted not only to the needs of the dismissed workers but also to the actual business environment. i vote in favour of this.
in writing. - europe has an opportunity to show solidarity with member states in difficulty. but we must think in three-quarters of the way. solidarity must, however, be accompanied by policies aimed at training, guidance and, above all, support in finding a new job. there are too many examples of how globalisation leads to uncontrolled relocations. in my northeast italy, companies are facing particular situations; although they are rooted in the territory, they have decided to relocate and create unemployment. i am thinking of the electrolux case and the hundreds of people who at this moment do not know whether they will have a job in the coming months. the same is true of spain and the 300 workers in the comunidad valenciana who were made redundant in the textile sector.
in writing. - having regard to the council decision concerning the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the nagoya protocol to the convention on biological diversity on access to genetic resources and the fair and equitable sharing of benefits arising from their utilization, whereas the nagoya protocol is based on three pillars, namely access to genetic resources, benefit-sharing and compliance with obligations, it also provides greater legal certainty and transparency for both providers and users of genetic resources. taking into account that the nagoya protocol will enter into force shortly after 50 states have ratified it, and it is essential that the european union and all member states ratify it as soon as possible in order to maintain leadership and attend the first negotiations at the next conference of the parties in 2014, i voted in favour of the draft.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal should have aimed at consolidating and updating the rules on the market in plant reproductive material and would have repealed and replaced 12 existing directives. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not disrupted by the failure of the council to adopt the common agricultural policy. we regret that parliament has not had time to introduce into european legislation the inalienable rights of farmers to use and trade their seeds freely and to have access to the market for all agricultural biodiversity and not just seeds that comply with intellectual property rules. these rights are the foundation of agriculture; this is why i am an integral part of the human right to food and the right of peoples to food sovereignty! the european union will have to make up for this serious delay with a new text, aimed at protecting all the most vulnerable categories and the quality of the product against the aggression of non-reproducible seeds, genetically modified to produce or absorb pesticides and confiscated by industry.
in writing. - i wish to express my deep dissatisfaction with the commission's refusal to withdraw the seed regulation despite the fact that the text was strongly contested and rejected by parliament. the reform of the seed rules lacks clarity on some of the issues addressed, and there are several problems with the definitions which have led to numerous requests for clarification from smes and ngos working in the field. we must not tighten the timetable and pass unsatisfactory legislation. i hope, however, that the commission will take account of the role of the european parliament as co-legislator and not force the adoption of the regulation. we must respond to the needs of the industry by passing legislation that brings real improvements for all producers, consumers and the environment.
in writing. - i consider that the sivestris report on the production and placing on the market of plant reproductive material is unclear because of the excessive presence of delegated and implementing acts which make it impossible to properly assess the actual impact of the measure, and for this reason i did not intend to support it with my vote.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report by mr silvestris on behalf of the committee on agriculture, fisheries and rural development, which rejects the commission's proposal on the simple grounds that the inclusion in a single regulation of matters which are already covered by 12 directives would necessarily require the loss of certain specific features which are better dealt with in the existing directives. it is also noted that the current approach of the directives to issues concerning plant reproductive material is well received by the states and stakeholders and the amendments made to the text presented by the commission do not represent significant improvements in the regulation, especially in the area of food safety, which is the reason for the commission's willingness to present this package.
in writing. - i voted against the proposal to revise the legislation on plant reproductive material. the current rules governing the sector are well structured and changing them would create further difficulties for a sector that is going through a difficult period. the great bureaucratic complications that this directive would bring were really intolerable, both for the operators in the sector and for consumers and the competent authorities. it would also cause disadvantages for small producers, limiting the freedom of choice of seeds and burdening the entire production chain.
in writing. - i think it is necessary to emphasise that eu legislation on plant reproductive material must facilitate and encourage the conservation of biodiversity in agriculture and horticulture. i vote in favour of the motion.
in writing. - the european parliament has today given a clear and unequivocal signal by rejecting the european commission's proposal on this subject by an overwhelming majority. the committee on the environment and the committee on agriculture also rejected the text, rightly supporting some of the main points. firstly, plant reproductive material is currently regulated by 12 directives, which make it possible to adapt legislation to individual specific cases. the approach chosen by the european commission, based on a single universally valid model, would have been in danger of not meeting the different needs of existing plant reproductive material and the needs of operators, consumers and competent authorities. in addition, all the sectoral organisations and the member states were generally satisfied with the current regulatory framework, with a willingness to make changes, but not with a single system that would change the current reality. the european commission wanted to insist, probably with the support of the big multinationals in the sector, which are eager to control the entire seed market, to the detriment of smaller producers, farmers and growers. i am pleased that a line which i have long supported and which, unfortunately, this house has not always embraced, namely the need for safe, reliable and always traceable products, has been adopted today.
in writing. - having regard to the proposal for a commission regulation on the production and placing on the market of plant reproductive material (single text on plant reproductive material),
in writing. - i found the roth-behrendt report unclear in many of its passages, which is why i decided to abstain.
in writing. - i can only applaud the work of the officials and other agents of the european union, who work hard every day to keep the european machine going, despite the years of economic difficulties we are experiencing throughout the union and across the continent. they are highly trained and productive people, who are able to work at a high interstate level, speak several languages, have expertise ranging from foreign policy to the single market, and often have to deal with the legislation of the member states. so i think what they earn and their pensions are deserved: in my experience as a member of the european parliament, i have met men and women who were truly passionate and dedicated to what they were doing. they represent europe and the european dream and often nourish this dream in their offices. i can't thank them enough. i also intend to break a spear against the european union: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of foodstuffs for sale to the ultimate consumer. this number is highly competitive with other national institutions.
in writing. - in the light of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council adjusting with effect from 1 july 2011 the remuneration and pensions of officials and other servants of the european union and the correction coefficients applied to remuneration and pensions, i voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - as i said in my vote in favour of the previous report on the salaries and pensions of officials and other servants of the european union, i consider their work essential to the smooth running of european activities and i consider their salaries and pensions to be well deserved for the high quality of the work they have done. unfortunately, the great work behind the agreements concluded by the union, the decisions taken by consensus between the various member states or just the countless meetings held in the justus lipsius building or in the altiero spinelli building of the european parliament is often not given enough attention or is only mentioned in the newspapers. i therefore take this opportunity to thank the officials and other staff for their passionate and dedicated daily work for the cause of the european union, for being the backbone of this great machine which sometimes seems complicated and slow, but which represents the realization of a great dream, of an incredible project such as that of the union. for these reasons, i vote in favour.
in writing. - in the light of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council adjusting with effect from 1 july 2012 the remuneration and pensions of officials and other servants of the european union and the correction coefficients applied to remuneration and pensions, i voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - in line with the rapporteur of the recommendation on certain procedures for the application of the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of serbia, of the other part, i support the position adopted by the council on 28 january 2014 without further amendments. following the stabilisation and association agreement concluded in 2008 between the eu and the republic of serbia and in the framework of other similar saa and interim agreements concluded with other western balkan states, it is necessary to align the regulations in the field of trade to the regime of the delegated and implementing acts subsequent to lisbon.
in writing. - i do not share the views expressed in the winkler report, so i did not intend to vote in favour of it.
in writing. - i shall vote in favour of this motion for a number of reasons: firstly, because i believe that the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states and the republic of serbia, signed on 29 april 2008 in luxembourg, represents a fundamental step forward for both parties to the agreement and for a 'more european' serbia on our borders. a republic of serbia closer to european economic, political and commercial parameters can only be a positive fact to be looked at with respect and hope. the second reason is that the european legislative procedure has been successfully carried out and that the commission, the council and finally the european parliament, through informal negotiations and the active involvement of the lithuanian presidency, have worked out a common solution which could be satisfactory: i think it's been found. finally, i believe that the inta committee's push, by a very large majority vote, has sent the right signal for this resolution to reach parliament as soon as possible and for the european union and the republic of serbia to benefit from the contents of the agreement without further delay.
in writing. - i am opposed to this agreement as a first step towards further enlargement of the borders of the european union. enlargement to the east has enormous social costs for our economy in terms of employment and risks increasing and facilitating organised crime.
in writing. - considering that a stabilisation and association agreement (saa) between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of serbia, of the other part, was signed in luxembourg on 29 april 2008 and that the regulation entered into force on 1 september 2013, in order to ensure the effective application of the saa, the commission proposed a regulation on certain procedures for the application of the trade part of the saa. in the light of the foregoing, i do not vote in favour of the report.
in writing. - on 28 april 2008, a stabilisation and association agreement between the member states of the union, of the one part, and the republic of serbia, of the other part, was signed in luxembourg. the regulation entered into force on 1 september 2013 and, in order to ensure the effective implementation of the agreement, the commission proposed a regulation on certain procedures for the application of the trade part.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the balz report which analyses the changes in the powers of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority (eiopa) and the european securities and markets authority (esma). i believe that we must move towards reducing the level of risk of insurance companies' investments and at the same time the exposure of taxpayers to them.
in writing. - the financial and economic crisis of recent years has highlighted some shortcomings in the european supervisory system, which is why i voted in favour of this proposal which makes some substantial amendments to directives 2003/71/ec and 2009/138/ec in addition to those already made by the commission. in general, the supervisory system needs to be more integrated in order to better reflect the current market situation, the functioning of the 3 authorities (eiopa) (eba) (esma) cannot fail to take this prerogative into account in order to operate at its best. the report stresses the need for these agencies to develop technical standards in view of the specific nature of the subject matter and considers it necessary for them to monitor the proper functioning of the rating agencies in view of their increasing role in regulating market developments. i am voting in favour of this report because i believe that establishing a proper and efficient system of supervision is a fundamental step towards ensuring economic stability and security for europe.
in writing. - having regard to the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directives 2003/71/ec and 2009/138/ec as regards the powers of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority (eiopa) and the european securities and markets authority (esma) (com ((2011) 0008 c7-0027/2011 2011/0006 cod)),
in writing. - the financial crisis of 2007 and 2008 highlighted serious shortcomings in financial supervision, especially in relation to country-based supervisory models. however, the adoption of instruments at union level that has been achieved so far requires a set of rules to ensure the harmonisation and uniform application of rules in the internal market and the effective implementation of micro-prudential supervision.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, stricter anti-money laundering rules to combat tax evasion, the names of the beneficial owners of companies and trusts would be entered in public registers. under the new anti-money laundering directive, beneficial ownership information for all types of legal entities including companies, foundations and trusts would be entered in central public registers. the identification of the beneficial owner of the business or commercial transaction is of key importance for the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing. it is therefore necessary to improve the way business registers operate in the member states, to include data on beneficial ownership, and to help the authorities and the businesses themselves to verify the identity of the persons to whom profits and business transactions are addressed. transparency must be the driving force behind a series of acts still being adopted. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. in this connection i hope that parliament will appreciate the fundamental importance of the traceability of the natural person using public money. the adoption of this measure today is only the beginning of a phase which must be virtuous.
in writing. - mr president, i strongly support the overall objective of the proposal for a regulation to update the eu's regulatory framework on combating money laundering and combating the financing of terrorism in order to improve its effectiveness while ensuring compliance with international standards. today, the flow of money laundered around the world amounts to about 2.7% of global gdp (or about $1.6 trillion) and is accompanied by insufficient protection of financial systems from abuse by criminals and terrorists. this has resulted in huge damage: social risk, reduced economic growth, instability in financial markets, loss of reputation and loss of confidence. the solution is to adapt and, above all, to review international standards, taking account of the constant evolution of technology and the means available to criminals, to improve the traceability of payments, especially for suspect payments, and to provide for a series of effective, proportionate and dissuasive sanctions.
in writing. - i did not intend to support the kekuš-kirkhope report on the proposal for a regulation on the information accompanying transfers of funds. i believe that this text is an attempt to increase control over the activities of citizens, masked by the justification of preventing criminal activities.
in writing. - the imf considers that action to prevent and combat money laundering and the financing of criminal and terrorist enterprises is 'not only a moral imperative but also an economic necessity' because they are themselves damaging to global stability and constitute a permanent drain on resources destined for developing countries. in this sense, the report provides a convincing and shared picture, considering the different areas at risk: for one thing, electronic money services offer ample opportunities for infiltration into a chain over which operators do not always have complete control. virtual banks now offer services that are partially or completely outside the scope of supervisory protocols. there are organizations that specialize in cybercrime that target credit institutions and entire country systems. the msb sector, which has exploded in recent years and is closely linked to complex social dynamics on a global scale, is a major vehicle for infiltration, including by foreign diasporas. finally, the issue of secret courts, on which the eu has also made important progress together with other bodies such as the oecd, is in the background. i share both the spirit and the forecasts of the report and therefore i vote in favour.
in writing. - i welcomed the commission's proposal because i believe that only by making payments and transfers of funds more traceable can a major blow be struck to crime, both in terms of illicit trafficking and the activities of terrorist organisations, without forgetting the damage to public budgets caused by tax evasion. the proposal aims to ensure that money movements, whether by means of checking or other means, are constantly monitored and to encourage the use of electronic money by improving its traceability. all these measures logically require a large amount of data to be collected, so the proposal in question takes account of the protection of personal data and therefore considers it extremely necessary to inform citizens of the collection of such personal information, as required by directive 95/46/ec. considering that the flow of money laundering in the world amounts to about 2.7% of global gdp (or about us$1.6 trillion in 2009), the size and spread of this problem requires a significant intervention as contained in this text.
in writing. - i think that the proposal is incomplete in some respects and contradictory. the rules on information on the transfer of funds must be more precisely laid down to avoid abuse. i vote against.
in writing. - i believe that there is an absolute need for greater control of the flow of money within the union but also, and perhaps above all, outside it. with the massive increase in the presence of immigrants in recent years, the remittances of the latter to their countries of origin have also increased considerably: i have nothing against this practice in theory, if it is the result of the work and sacrifice of these people, as was the case for italians abroad a few decades ago. the problem arises when these funds are of illicit origin and their transfer abroad is often used to cover up money laundering. money transfers are mushrooming in our cities and their activities are often shrouded in mystery. several operations by the guardia di finanza have unmasked numerous multimillion-dollar transactions linked to money transfers, such as last month in prato, where a chinese entrepreneur was accused of evading almost 5 million euros. that is why i have repeatedly proposed the introduction of a progressive tax on remittances, which should mainly affect those who export large capital, proceeds of the illegal underground economy: this would ensure greater control and help to combat this illicit trade.
in writing. - in the light of the comments on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the information to be provided in the context of transfers of funds (2013/0024 (cod)), i voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - it is essential that the member states' crime-fighting bodies coordinate their action and that financial institutions and payment service providers follow a standardised procedure in order to combat money laundering. the complementary package on combating money laundering and terrorism will improve the transparency of all types of money transfers in order to facilitate the traceability by law enforcement of electronically transferred funds by criminals and terrorists. it is now essential to achieve a real evolution of the european regulatory framework, placing greater emphasis on the effectiveness of anti-money laundering and countering the financing of terrorism regimes, on the clarity and uniformity of the rules in all member states and on the broadening of the scope of application.
in writing. - in complementing the money laundering and terrorism package (together with the fourth anti-money laundering directive), this regulation aims to achieve the same overall objective of more effective combating money laundering and terrorist financing, by improving the transparency of transfers of funds of all kinds, whether national or cross-border, with a view to facilitating the traceability by law enforcement of electronically transferred funds by criminals and terrorists.
in writing. - money laundering and terrorist financing are often international in scope. therefore, measures taken at european level alone, without any coordination and cooperation at international level, would have only a very limited effect. firstly, a preventive approach should be adopted, i.e. improving criminal law instruments; preventing the development of shadow corporate structures operating through secret jurisdictions, often referred to as tax havens; and to ensure improved traceability of payments while respecting the protection of personal data. the commission has also been paying close attention to the gambling and betting sector, particularly those relating to sporting events, as the laundering of criminal activities is becoming increasingly sophisticated and at the same time very profitable.
in writing. - i support this report because this new directive will improve the legislation which prevents the conversion of the proceeds of criminal activity into legitimate funds via the financial system. to be able to do that, the operations of business registers have to be improved. indeed, the identification of the beneficial owner of the business or the business transaction is crucial in preventing money laundering and terrorist financing. we must bear in mind that massive flows of illicit money damage the stability and reputation of the financial sector and threaten the single market as well as international development. i am persuaded that, in addition to the criminal law approach, a preventive effort via the financial system can produce results.
in writing. - i consider the report on the prevention of the use of the financial system for the purpose of laundering the proceeds of criminal activities and the financing of terrorism to be very balanced and well thought out, and that is why i voted in favour of it.
in writing. - this report implements the non-binding recommendations of the international financial action task force, the main international body involved in combating money laundering. the aim is to coordinate and integrate the existing system of rules and to create a risk-based approach to the problem in the union, which will make it possible to combat money laundering more effectively. crime, and in particular organised crime, is focused on the generation of illicit profits which, by definition, must be protected from law enforcement and criminal prosecution. the protection of the use of the financial system against money laundering is a major concern for the market economy. recent events have highlighted the importance of banks in preventing money laundering through cases where prevention and compliance have failed. hsbc has accepted a fine of usd 1.9 billion in the united states for the involvement of some of its services in money laundering linked to drug trafficking; deutsche bank in frankfurt, germany, was the subject of a money laundering investigation in connection with large-scale vat fraud. new developments, such as online gambling, make it necessary to continue work on existing anti-money laundering rules and measures.
in writing. - the commission proposal is a revision of directive 2005/60/ec . i am voting in favour of this revision because i believe it is necessary to strengthen the internal market, to make financial transfers more transparent in an increasingly complex financial environment, to support the fight against terrorism and organised crime and to strengthen the eu's financial system. the most important part of the report in my view concerns the introduction of the public usufruct register. the member states will have to ensure that the central registers, commercial registers or business registers within their territory contain information on the beneficial owners of the money movements, which is not easy today. criminal organisations often use loopholes in the law to launder money also through financial markets, creating among other things instability and uncertainty in the markets, and therefore, in order to achieve greater credibility and legality of the markets, i agree with the need to identify the actual owner of the movements, while still considering that the preventive approach should be targeted and proportionate and not constitute a general system of control of the entire population.
in writing. - the fight against money laundering and the laundering of the proceeds of criminal activities is certainly the most effective way of combating crime. to combat it effectively, it is important to deprive it of its resources. i vote in favour of this.
in writing. - we welcome this directive because it aims to improve the current legal framework to prevent the proceeds of criminal activities from being legitimated through the financial system. money laundering is a vast phenomenon, estimated at up to 5% of world gdp, which undermines the integrity of the financial sector, causes governments to lose revenue, hinders competition, and has a negative impact on the proper functioning of markets and development. we believe that the transparency of business registers needs to be improved, as the identification of the beneficial owner of a business or commercial transaction is of vital importance for the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing. the interconnection of these registers in the member states should therefore be improved to include data on beneficial owners and to help the authorities and the undertakings themselves to verify the identity of the persons to whom the profits of commercial transactions are to be paid. the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing must, however, always be conducted in full compliance with the eu legal order, in particular with regard to community law on data protection and the protection of fundamental rights, as enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights of the european union.
in writing. - i vote in favour of the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the prevention of the use of the financial system for the purpose of laundering the proceeds of criminal activities and terrorist financing. according to the international monetary fund, money laundering is a widespread phenomenon, estimated at up to 5% of world gdp. these criminal activities undermine the integrity of the financial sector, cause governments to lose revenue, impede competition and negatively affect the proper functioning of markets, as well as constrain development. the way in which business registers operate in the member states should therefore be improved in order to better address the current challenges. carry out an assessment of the recycling risks linked to the individual sectors concerned and have a preventive, targeted and proportionate approach which, however, does not constitute a general control system of the entire population. this proposal is a useful tool to improve the current legal framework to prevent the proceeds of criminal activities from being 'legitimated' through the financial system.
in writing. - whereas the purpose of the new directive is to improve the current legal framework aimed at preventing the proceeds of criminal activities from being 'legitimated' through the financial system and to reflect the changes made to the non-binding recommendations issued by the financial action task force (fatf). considering that money laundering is a large-scale phenomenon, estimated at up to 5% of global gdp (according to international monetary fund calculations), these criminal activities undermine the integrity of the financial sector, cause governments to lose revenue, hinder competition, and negatively affect the proper functioning of markets, as well as constrain development. having regard to the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the prevention of the use of the financial system for the purpose of laundering the proceeds of criminal activities and terrorist financing, i have expressed my opinion in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - rapid action is needed to improve the current legal framework and effectively prevent the proceeds of criminal activities from being laundered through the financial system. this phenomenon now amounts to 5% of global gdp, undermining the integrity of the financial sector and causing huge revenue losses to national governments. the change will have to start now, first through a better system of business registers, making it clear that it is up to companies to know their customers and to trace back to the final beneficiary.
in writing. - it is essential that the union adopts a legal framework capable of preventing the proceeds of criminal activities from being 'legitimated' through the financial system, and the commission's proposal is therefore welcomed. however, i agree with the rapporteur that some of its aspects need to be improved, such as the system of business registers, so that data on beneficial owners can be entered and the authorities and the companies themselves can be helped to verify the identity of the persons to whom the profits of commercial transactions are being paid. the eu-wide risk assessment of money laundering needs to be clarified so that it includes at least a general estimate of the phenomenon of money laundering, an assessment of the risks associated with the individual sectors concerned, knowledge of the most common means of laundering illicit proceeds by crime and recommendations on the effective distribution of resources. finally, i agree with the rapporteurs that the preventive approach must be targeted and proportionate, so as not to harm honest businesses and in particular smes.
in writing. - while i share some of the positions taken in the kalfin report, which calls for an improvement in the operational and transparency procedures of the european investment bank, i believe that the role of the eib should be more focused on the internal needs of the eu, which is why i abstained.
in writing. - whereas the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the granting of a union guarantee for eib external operations effectively combines eu budgetary funds, through the provision of the external action guarantee fund, and the eib's own resources in order to achieve the eu's external policy objectives, considering that the commission proposal contains important elements already present in the current mandate and concerns the contribution of eib financing activities to the general principles guiding the union's external action, information obligations, the need to assess development impacts or public participation, it is also of particular importance to deepen cooperation between the commission and the european external action service (eeas) at all stages of the lending process in order to ensure the best possible complementarity and coherence. in the light of the foregoing, i shall vote in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - we must not allow the crisis to unduly reduce the use of capital by the european investment bank for longterm development in areas such as the balkans and north africa. the first step in restructuring, which must be guided by the ultimate objectives of the european union, must be to rationalize the operations and make the register of beneficiaries of eib financing more and more transparent.
in writing. - the commission's proposal on the eu guarantee for eib external operations effectively combines eu budgetary funds, but some of the amendments proposed by the rapporteur are particularly welcome. first of all, it should be noted that the european union will significantly reduce its investments in the balkans, the eastern partnership countries and north africa, due to budget cuts that will lead to an average reduction of between eur 4.2 and 3.6 billion per year. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european union's financial contribution to the european solidarity corps (eusf) is based on the principle of the european union's financial contribution to the european solidarity corps (eusf).
in writing. - the union guarantee for eib external operations effectively combines eu budgetary funds, through the provision of the external action guarantee fund, and the eib's own resources in order to achieve the foreign policy objectives set. the proposal for a new decision will cover the union guarantee for eib external financing operations for the period from 1 january 2014 to 31 december 2014.
in writing. - i supported the report on genetic resources because i am aware of the scale of the phenomenon of biodiversity loss. this is not a position dictated solely by ethical and/or moral convictions, but rather by the desire to reduce the impact of biodiversity loss in economic and social terms. preserving biodiversity therefore becomes a shared mission to safeguard europe's socioeconomic dynamism by directly benefiting from the use of genetic resources. this report, together with the report on the nagoya protocol, forms part of the international strategy for the conservation of biodiversity. the eu has decided to challenge the member states on the issue of access to genetic resources, but believes that clear and unequivocal provisions should be provided on the fair sharing of benefits (not just financial) from the use of these resources and also on compliance with international legal obligations. this allocation mechanism will allow for the protection of the environment, social progress and the sustainable use of in situ resources. i welcome the rapporteur's proposals on the chain of use of energy resources and the associated traditional knowledge, as well as on strengthening transparency and legal certainty.
in writing. - the belier report analysing the proposal for a regulation on access to genetic resources and the fair and equitable sharing of the benefits arising from their use in the eu is balanced and does not contain critical elements, so i supported it with my vote.
in writing. - i am wary of any economic evaluation of biodiversity as a tool for political discussion and note that this approach has been the focus of a heated debate for years, not limited to academic circles. i prefer to focus on the clear implications of protecting biodiversity as the foundation of a future that can be built on the christian and liberal values of intelligent stewardship of natural resources. in this context, i also support the report because of the many references to human rights in the context of natural resource management: it is essential to agree on an approach which recognises fair and forward-looking management as an element of a society based on free markets, accountability and legality. the nagoya protocol clearly links benefit-sharing with a vision of sustainability and biodiversity conservation. finally, i would like to join the suggestions for greater transparency and legality and for combating bio-piracy, which is a scourge specifically linked to those dangerous currents of thought and utopian movements whose common final destination is invariably the denial of the value of the person and of man.
in writing. - the main objective of this regulation, which is the same as the nagoya protocol itself, is to preserve and protect biological diversity. other secondary objectives, such as the transfer of technology to developing countries, complement and reinforce the first objective. i therefore believe that, in a context where the loss of biodiversity continues to worsen and accelerate, it is right to vote in favour of this commission regulation and to approve the amendments proposed by the rapporteur. i appreciate the aims of the proposed amendments, in particular that of benefiting european citizens by guaranteeing traceability and ethics, respect for international legal obligations and fair and equitable sharing of benefits. i also believe that the desire to strengthen international equity and the confidence of third countries suppliers is something that can be shared and that this can contribute to the preservation of the environment, social progress and a sustainable use of resources. i also agree with the need to combat 'biopiracy', i.e. the illegal acquisition and use of genetic resources, and i believe that by defining the crime of 'biopiracy' in law and by laying down appropriate sanctions, we can effectively combat this phenomenon.
in writing. - sharing the benefits of greater use of genetic resources and a deeper sharing of good practices and technologies can only be welcomed. i vote in favour of this.
in writing. - the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council aims to ensure that biodiversity, its peoples and their knowledge are preserved and that the benefits arising from the use of genetic resources and associated traditional knowledge are distributed in a fair and equitable manner. this is the spirit in which the nagoya protocol on access and benefit-sharing was signed in 2010 in the context of the 10th conference of the parties to the convention on biological diversity, and it is time for the european union to transpose and reflect that protocol. i voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - one of the eu's objectives must be to ensure the integrity of the chain of use, to allow traceability and legal certainty for users, which is why i support the proposal to maintain control points when a marketing authorisation is applied for and when public or private research funding is granted. legal certainty is a key element in creating a simple and immediate legislative framework, which is why the term 'biopiracy' needs to be clarified and transparency in the management of genetic resources ensured. i also welcome the rapporteur's proposal to create a union fund for benefit sharing, funded by the users of genetic resources with a view to preserving the world's biodiversity, which could contribute to a multilateral worldwide benefit sharing mechanism, as provided for in article 10 of the nagoya protocol.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, over 38 000 people die on european roads every year, and 5 of those people die every day because of technical defects in the vehicles they drive. a recent study even found that about 10% of cars and motor vehicles in circulation have a defect that would prevent them from passing technical inspections. for these reasons i support the report by mr werner kuhn, which makes the checks on motor vehicles more stringent and rigorous, thus helping to make european roads safer. the text we have worked on in committee is designed to extend these checks to scooters, motorcycles and light vehicles, with an increase in the frequency of checks also on cars and light vehicles: four years from the date of first registration and two years thereafter. it is important to stress, mr president, and i conclude, that this regulation does not affect the possibility for the member states to introduce stricter rules, but always in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity.
in writing. - i have decided today to approve the report on the technical inspections of vehicles and their trailers because i believe that it is appropriate to assess carefully and precisely the impact that the proposals put forward could have on citizens and businesses, especially in financial and administrative terms, avoiding creating additional complications, burdens and inefficient bureaucratic procedures. i welcome the commission's proposals as amended by the rapporteur on the following points: frequency of inspections and vehicle categories, technical requirements and test methods, qualification of independent inspectors to carry out technical inspections, exemptions for historic passenger cars, cross-border re-registration of a vehicle and consolidation of delegated acts. i think it is good to focus on the education and training of inspectors not only to ensure efficient control and optimum safety, but also to avoid any potential conflict of interest. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very important one.
in writing. - i think that the kuhn report contains contradictory and unclear points, which is why i abstained.
in writing. - although the so-called peltzmann effect has been codified for almost 40 years, it has been less than ten years since the european legislator began to assess this phenomenon (in which the increase in physical and technical safety measures can increase the risks arising from human behaviour). in other words, the regulation of vehicle inspections should be periodically reviewed as a tool linked to the general objectives of reducing emissions and protecting the health and safety of citizens, without unduly emphasising the benefits and in accordance with the principle of proportionality, especially as vehicles are often the capital goods of smes or are modes of urban transport with no viable alternative for consumers. to impose additional burdens on them in a time of crisis would be harmful and wrong. the data in our possession show that the vast majority of road accidents are due to dangerous behaviour rather than to the technical inadequacy of the vehicles, and a significant proportion is due to improper configuration of the seat and intersections in relation to the weak user (pedestrians, cyclists). that said, i support the extension of checks to motorcycles and i support the rapporteur's position, which intends to moderate the commission's forecasts somewhat.
in writing. - the increasing mobility of people across the european union requires more harmonised legislation on roadworthiness tests. this legislation is necessary to improve road safety. i have chosen to support the proposal because it provides for new rules on roadworthiness tests, with the aim of further improving road safety and ensuring a high level of environmental protection. the proposal is based on the establishment of common minimum standards at eu level for vehicle inspections but allows member states to introduce more stringent standards. the proposal provides for: a mandatory eu-wide roadworthiness test for scooters and motorcycles; an increase in the frequency of periodic roadworthiness tests for certain categories of vehicles; a minimum level of competence and training requirements for inspectors; and an improvement in the quality of vehicle checks by defining common minimum standards for deficiencies and instruments. it also provides for the introduction of mandatory checks on electronic security components.
in writing. - i am in favour of the proposal for a regulation as a whole, which i consider to be considerably improved by the addition of the necessary amendments. this regulation is part of the continuing process of unification between all the member states, which necessarily must also provide for transport safety. with the free movement of persons between community countries, there is a growing need to standardize safety checks on the condition of motor vehicles on public roads. this regulation, which does not preclude member states from introducing stricter rules in their national legislation, aims to ensure minimum safety standards for all vehicles registered in the eu by reducing road accidents and by further protecting the rights of consumers, who will be able to consult a detailed list of the use of each vehicle, including the actual mileage, by means of a register, thereby limiting fraud in the sale of used vehicles. the need for serious and professional checks by qualified staff is emphasised and the aim is to reduce the burden of such checks on the public.
in writing. - i support the new directive on periodic technical inspections. this legislation will have two important consequences for italian citizens: on the one hand, it will increase road safety, which is a common asset and must be safeguarded. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be required to provide the commission with a report on the implementation of the directive.
in writing. - the proposal to introduce common european standards for vehicle inspection is a step forward in improving road safety. the possibility for member states to apply stricter rules is itself a means of protecting citizens and reducing road casualties. finally, the introduction of tachograph control and, above all, the increase in penalties for tampering will make it possible to develop trade in vehicles between the different member states.
in writing. - considering that the existing eu rules on periodic roadworthiness tests for motor vehicles (directive 2009/40/ec) apply to passenger cars, buses, heavy goods vehicles and their trailers, but not to mopeds or motorcycles, the commission has presented new rules on periodic roadworthiness tests for motor vehicles and their trailers and the repeal of directive 2009/04/ec, with the aim of improving road safety and ensuring a high level of environmental protection, i voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - today's vote lays a solid foundation for a shared legal framework which will allow for better technical controls, which can significantly increase road safety, while ensuring a high level of environmental protection. the new common minimum standards will not prevent member states from introducing more stringent standards.
in writing. - i agree with the rapporteur that it is necessary to extend the technical checks to scooters and motorcycles, as they represent a group of users with the highest safety risk, with a 4-2-2 formula, the same for cars and light vehicles. i also believe that the technical requirements and test methods set out in the annexes should be regarded as european minimum standards, which member states should be able to maintain and which they could also introduce stricter standards in relation to. i also support the principle that technical inspections should be carried out by independent inspectors who have a good level of education and training. as regards historic cars, i believe that they should be excluded from the scope of union legislation and that member states should have more discretion in this matter.
in writing. - the commission has presented new rules on roadworthiness tests with the aim of further improving road safety and ensuring a high level of environmental protection. the proposal is in line with the road safety objectives set out in the white paper 'roadmap to a single european transport area'. the proposal is based on the establishment of common minimum standards at eu level for vehicle inspections, but allows member states to introduce stricter standards.
in writing. - the report has two objectives: the commission has also proposed that the member states should provide more precise definitions of the place of registration of vehicles and introduce the revocation and cancellation of the registration certificate. in view of the fact that registration of a vehicle means authorising its use in road traffic by means of the affixing of the plate and by virtue of the possibility of re-registration of a vehicle several times during its life cycle by change of ownership or transfer to another member state on a permanent basis, the technical inspection package is aimed at aligning the current legislation with the evolution of the automotive sector and the needs of eu citizens. it is therefore a priority to apply more uniform and stringent rules in order to improve road safety and environmental protection. in this respect, it will be necessary to establish new requirements for electronic vehicle registration data banks and for notifications following technical inspections. i agree with the rapporteur that the commission proposal should be brought more into line with the existing legislation and that the administrative burden of registration should be reduced.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report analysing the proposal for a directive on vehicle registration documents. i believe that improving the controls on vehicles which are dangerous to traffic is essential to increase safety on our roads.
in writing. - i vote in favour of this proposal, which aims to ensure greater safety and compliance with environmental standards by providing for increased cooperation between member states in the exchange and mutual recognition of registrations and periodic roadworthiness tests of motor vehicles. the directive also provides for considerable bureaucratic simplifications for both users and public administrations, limiting the coexistence of duplicate data in different national electronic databases, which, thanks to increasing cooperation, will have to make the consultation of data on vehicles registered in their respective states simpler and more transparent. it is essential to this end that there be full mutual recognition of the technical checks carried out in the other member states, as is repeatedly stressed in the text. it is also hoped that these amendments to directive 1999/37/ec will lead, among other things, to lower costs for citizens and businesses.
in writing. - i am in favour of the proposal because this new vehicle registration system creates a european standard for registration valid in all member states. it will therefore be easier for an italian citizen to re-register his vehicle in another country without having to run into bureaucratic problems. it also increases road safety by guaranteeing minimum safety standards that each country will have to meet before registering a vehicle.
in writing. - whereas the amendment to council directive 1999/37/ec on vehicle registration documents provides for more precise definitions as regards the place of registration of vehicles and introduces the revocation and cancellation of the registration certificate; laying down new requirements for databases on the electronic registration of vehicles and the follow-up to notifications of the results of roadworthiness tests, re-registrations and the scrapping of vehicles. taking into account that the commission will be given powers to update the annexes in accordance with eu type-approval legislation, i voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - the measures approved today will make it easier to maintain and enforce the rules on roadworthiness testing of motor vehicles, improving road safety and environmental protection. it will be important to introduce a new system of road inspections which will allow the temporary withdrawal or permanent cancellation of the registration of a vehicle if its technical conditions create an immediate risk to road safety.
in writing. - the aim of this package is to support the standards for roadworthiness testing of motor vehicles, with a view to improving road safety and environmental protection. i appreciate that the proposal provides for more precise definitions as regards the place of registration of vehicles, including the introduction of withdrawal for those vehicles which pose an immediate risk to road safety. i agree with the simplification of documentation proposed by the rapporteur, as well as the establishment of electronic databases linked between the different member states in order to facilitate the work of identifying a vehicle. i agree with the case law of the european court of justice that the validity of technical checks must be mutually recognised by all member states.
in writing. - the objective of the so-called 'technical inspection' package is to support and enforce the rules on the technical inspection of motor vehicles with a view to improving road safety and environmental protection. the proposal aims to improve the application of the rules on roadworthiness tests and the roadworthiness inspection regime, in particular where the technical conditions of a vehicle create an immediate risk to road safety, through measures such as temporary withdrawal or permanent cancellation of the vehicle's registration.
in writing. - despite the progress made by the european union in road safety, the european parliament must continue to send a clear signal of its commitment to road safety. i therefore welcome the 'inspection package' and the proposal on road inspections of commercial vehicles. harmonisation of important elements such as the rules for the assessment of deficiencies, the level of knowledge and competence of inspectors carrying out roadside checks on the basis of the requirements applied to periodic technical checks and the introduction of a risk classification system will certainly help to avoid disparities in treatment and increase the overall effectiveness of checks.
in writing. - road safety is a matter of great importance to modern society and the european parliament has once again given a clear signal of its commitment to road safety with this report. i believe that the effectiveness of a road safety policy depends first and foremost on the behaviour of users, whatever technical measures are put in place. however, the road safety system must also take account of human error and any inadequate behaviour to correct them. i therefore welcome the 'roadworthiness package' and in particular the proposal on roadworthiness tests. at present there are huge differences between the various member states as regards the conduct of roadworthiness tests, while, with the application of the new rules, a regular concerted inspection activity by all member states is being introduced. finally, i fully support the introduction of new elements such as the annual performance by the member states of a certain number of roadside checks, the more thorough technical checks carried out by a technical inspection centre and the appropriate training of inspectors in the sector, which is essential in the light of the increasing complexity of technical checks.
in writing. - this report is part of the road safety debate, one of the major issues recently discussed by meps: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of the road is not compromised. in addition to proper road safety education, which is a key element in preventing accidents, existing legislation must also take account of cases where human error or inappropriate behaviour has serious consequences for the safety of road users. i welcome the 'roadworthiness package' and, in particular, the proposals put forward by the rapporteur to approximate national regulations given the wide disparities between member states, especially in roadworthiness tests. i believe that a good solution for the correct harmonization of national legislation is to establish a system of risk classification, as well as to periodically check the competence of the inspectors responsible for carrying out road checks. this would not only improve the effectiveness of checks but also ensure the impartiality of inspectors to avoid discrimination based on the nationality of the driver. finally, i think it is right that commercial vehicle manufacturers should be responsible for ensuring the integrity and suitability of the vehicle for use in traffic.
in writing. - while i share part of the text of the report analysing the proposal for a regulation on the inspection of commercial vehicles in the eu, i believe that this risk classification system does not take into account too many factors and that it will end up penalizing smes without, however, achieving the desired increase in the level of safety, which is why i abstained in this vote.
in writing. - as road safety is a priority to be pursued by all means, i am in favour of any proposal to that effect. i think the commission's target of reducing road fatalities by 50% by 2020 is ambitious and rightly so, and i therefore see this proposal as a further key step towards that goal. the need to carry out technical roadside inspections in addition to regular roadside inspections has been identified and adopted for some time, but the disparities in the outcomes of such inspections from country to country highlight the need for greater uniformity in this activity; i welcome the proposal to train qualified staff in each member state and the adoption of common rules and procedures.
in writing. - i welcome the new directive on roadworthiness tests for commercial vehicles. this legislative action is part of the wider strategy of increasing road safety controls, which i cannot but support. increasing and standardizing controls at european level will increase safety on roads throughout europe.
in writing. - the regulation proposed by the commission on the movement of goods and road safety certainly needs some improvements. the main one is, of course, the one concerning a real and precise classification of risk. it is not difficult to imagine the complexity involved in making a realistic and common analysis of enterprises at risk in the internal market. an undertaking considered to be at risk in one member state may not be considered to be at risk in another. it is therefore essential to have a common and uniform approach to risk calculation, using precise parameters. a model could be the most recent technical inspection certificates, which could be used as a basis for the classification of enterprises at risk. the commission's text should therefore be clearer and more explicit, particularly in order to outline the lines to be followed if, at the initial stage of the technical inspection, deficiencies in the vehicle are detected.
in writing. - having regard to the various road safety strategies adopted by the european commission in previous years (20 july 2010; 1 july 2012), the directive 2009/40/ec on roadworthiness tests for commercial vehicles, which repeals directive 2000/30/ec, provides for the obligation to check the technical condition of commercial vehicles in the intervals between periodic roadworthiness tests, which consist of additional on-the-road checks not provided for commercial vehicles, i voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - the european parliament has once again demonstrated its commitment to road safety by voting in favour of the directive. the focus of all future initiatives will be on user behaviour, and road safety education and specific training will play an increasingly important role in this regard.
in writing. - i agree with the rapporteur that some key elements need to be harmonised, such as the rules for the assessment of deficiencies and the level of knowledge and competence of the inspectors carrying out roadside checks in accordance with the requirements applied to periodic roadworthiness tests. the competence and training of inspectors should be a central element of any roadworthiness system.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the control of commercial vehicles in the eu because i believe that it is essential to change the rules on the production of statistics on rail transport within the eu. such collections are essential because they provide objective data and relevant information to improve railway safety in terms of freight and passenger transport, traffic flows, accidents and the railway network. i also think it is appropriate to add some categories of data including the number and type of trains, the number of new silent freight wagons, the transport of bicycles, etc. this report suggests some changes to the commission proposal which aims to align the existing provisions on comitology with the delegated and implementing acts, to rationalise the commission's powers and, at the same time, to safeguard the prerogatives of parliament. as with other statistics in the transport sector, i believe it is useful to optimise the collection of data on rail transport, including railway infrastructure and a greater number of variables for measuring passenger transport, especially those using cross-border links.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the cramer report which aims to simplify the legislation currently in force, reducing the burden on member states without affecting the quality of the collection of statistical data on rail freight and passenger transport.
in writing. - as the collection of statistical data is one of the best ways of ensuring and implementing the efficiency and operation of a sector or service, i am voting in favour of this proposal which, with the addition of certain amendments, guarantees the formulation of increasingly accurate and comprehensive statistical reports for a sector as important as rail. the amendments proposed by the committee on transport and tourism seek to achieve an increasingly transnational level for rail transport, to which the collection of data on cross-border movements of goods and persons has been added, together with the requirement to check periodically the state of progress of the ertms project. the aim is to achieve perfect harmonisation of european lines in favour of a single line capable of uniting all of europe while ensuring the same high safety standards for each country. for this reason too, it is considered appropriate that data on railway accidents be collected by both eurostat and era, which are required to cooperate more and more in the interests of safety.
in writing. - the collection of data and statistics on rail transport is absolutely necessary. the commission proposal, which aims to simplify the regulation, proposes the transmission of only 'detailed' data, thus reducing the burden on member states. the report also calls for the commission to take a more active role in the fight against fraud and for the commission to be able to take a more active role in the fight against fraud. it is essential to cooperate with the european railway agency in the collection of data, particularly on accident data; this is undoubtedly very important in order to ensure greater railway safety. finally, in order to safeguard parliament's prerogatives, it is considered necessary to rationalise the powers delegated to the commission in this area.
in writing. - whereas the commission has proposed to amend regulation (ec) no 91/2003 of the european parliament and of the council of 16 december 2002 on rail transport statistics as regards the collection of data on freight, passengers, traffic flows, the railway network and accidents; since the commission has proposed to remove the obligation to collect accident data, as such data are also collected by the european railway agency (era), and since the amendment of this regulation takes account of the adaptations to the treaty on the functioning of the european union concerning the conferral of delegated powers and implementing powers on the commission, i voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - the important choice of simplifying the common rules established for collecting statistics on rail transport in the european union must now be extended to rail infrastructure data and to a greater number of specific variables. only in this way will it be possible to work more and more in the interests of the safety of european passengers.
in writing. - the commission proposal simplifies regulation (ec) no 91/2003 by providing for the transmission of 'detailed' data only and abandoning the concept of 'simplified' data, thereby reducing the burden on member states and respondents, without significant losses in terms of the quality of rail freight and passenger data and shortening the time for the dissemination of passenger data. the objective of the proposal is certainly to be welcomed, but i think that the data collection, as proposed by the rapporteur, should be extended to data on railway infrastructure. i think it is essential to safeguard the role of parliament in this area by rationalizing the powers delegated to the commission.
in writing. - mr cramer's report welcomes the commission's intention to simplify the rules for the compilation of rail transport statistics in the union. the rapporteur believes that the data collection should be extended to rail infrastructure data, including more variables for the measurement of passenger transport, particularly in relation to cross-border links, which should play a central role in the transport policy of the european union.
in writing. - mr president, electronic invoicing is an important step forward in the digital agenda. a public administration that goes beyond the outdated approach and is now outdated by history in which everything is done through paper media. the benefits in terms of monetary savings - estimated to save the eu some €2 billion a year - and environmental benefits are all too obvious. the commission is therefore proposing to move to electronic invoicing using common standards. i hope that the european committee for standardisation (cen) will follow the best practices already in use in europe, including the italian one which has already introduced an electronic invoicing system for transactions between suppliers and public administrations.
in writing. - with this report we want to promote interoperability in electronic invoicing for public procurement in order to achieve the ultimate goal of a paperless public administration. this is also linked to the imminent need to push forward the process of completing the digital single market in order to further harmonise national public procurement rules and thus respond to consumer needs. at the moment, there are still some national rules which are incompatible with electronic invoicing, which unfortunately makes it difficult to exchange invoices across borders, even in the context of public procurement. the european landscape is now characterised by a complex business and administrative reality due to the variety of rules in the member states: our aim must be to forge a strong and transparent legal framework by simplifying procedures and aligning national legislation. however, the directive does not provide for complete harmonization of national electronic invoicing systems, but suggests some proposals to introduce simplified procedures for the award of a contract by means of an exchange of invoices at minimum cost. i welcome the amendments proposed on the time-limits for implementing and drawing up the regulation, on the essential elements of the electronic invoice and, finally, on the powers within the commission's mandate.
in writing. - i share the views expressed in the collin-langen report on electronic invoicing in public procurement. i believe that the introduction of elements harmonizing the different invoicing systems currently in force in the 28 member states will facilitate payments to the companies which win the tenders and thus streamline the current bureaucratic procedures, which is why i have supported the text under vote.
in writing. - there are certainly reasons for a new directive: the commission's proposal is to set up a european network of experts in the field of information technology. the risks of not proceeding in time and of allowing a complex scenario of proprietary non-interoperable systems to develop while technologies are being disseminated in the private market cannot be underestimated. the ict sector is by its very nature particularly dynamic: the fact that the community is a single market, and that it is not a single market, and that it is not a single market, and that it is not a single market, and that it is not a single market, and that it is not a single market, and that it is not a single market, and that it is not a single market, and that it is not a single market, and that it is not a single market, and that it is not a single market, and that it is not a single market, and that it is not a single market, and that it is not a single market, and that it is not a single market, and that it is not a single market, and that it is not a single market, and that it is not a single market, and that it is not a single market, and that it is not a single market, and that it is not a single market. we find a concrete example in italy in the systems of local tax collection, from disastrous outsourcing to unreliable entities (with the surge of fraud), to concentration with politically unsustainable consequences, to a return to in-house solutions that are completely heterogeneous even at the local level. both the commission and our rapporteur have addressed these concerns and have given a good justification for the objectives of the measure. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. - the proposal for a directive aims to promote interoperability in electronic invoicing for public procurement. it is a further step towards a paperless public administration. i voted in favour of this because it supports the use of electronic invoicing in public procurement and the promotion of electronic award procedures in general. in particular, the report supports the creation of a common eu-wide standard for electronic invoices that all public purchasers must accept, even if they can continue to use other national and paper-based systems. the absence of a common european standard obviously leads to increased operational costs and barriers to market access: in fact, companies prefer not to participate in cross-border procurement because of the lack of interoperability of systems. the commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market if it is granted through state resources. the directive does not provide for the complete harmonisation of national electronic invoicing systems. the objective of the standard is to harmonise the different national standards to allow the communication and correlation of the content of the invoice between the different electronic invoicing systems. this will make it possible to exchange invoices more easily and at a lower cost.
in writing. - i welcome the initial objective of the european commission and the consequent analysis and amendments to the directive by the rapporteur because i believe that a common sense approach has been followed to improve and implement the measure, while respecting the legislative tasks in a healthy and constructive way. i support this further step towards paperless public administration and i particularly support electronic procurement procedures. the completion of a digital single market which is responsive to consumer needs has, i think, received a proactive boost from this report. as regards the amendments made by the rapporteur, i think she has done well in setting out the essential elements of the electronic invoice in a new annex, and i think it is appropriate to provide for a period of 30 months for the development of the standard. i think that the commission's proposal is a good one, and i believe that harmonizing the different national rules, allowing the communication and correlation of the contents of the invoice between the different electronic invoicing systems, can only be acceptable for the development of the internal market.
in writing. - i believe that it is measures like these that guarantee a certain utility in being in europe and that is the model which i think should be followed. the use of electronic invoicing would certainly result in considerable savings and bureaucratic simplification, which would be very useful especially in cross-border transactions. the use of electronic invoicing in europe is still too limited, with a share of between 4 and 15%; however, there are significant exceptions, such as denmark, austria, sweden and finland, where almost all invoicing for public contracts is done electronically. the aim is therefore to encourage the development of a tool which, where it has been introduced and supported, has shown many advantages. public procurement in europe represents about 3.7% of gdp and thus provides a good test bed for the large-scale introduction of e-invoicing, which should then be extended to other sectors. the technological tools are already available, ready to be used: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
in writing. - considering that the lack of a common european standard forces companies to comply with different rules for each market and that this leads to increased operating costs, with consequent price increases, the european parliament and council directive aims to promote interoperability in electronic invoicing for public procurement, allowing easier access to the cross-border market. taking into account that the directive does not establish a binding european standard but provides for the linking of national standards through the new standard (48 months after the entry into force of the directive), and that interoperability cannot be achieved at national level, the principles of proportionality and subsidiarity are also met. in the light of the foregoing, i shall vote in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - by promoting interoperability in electronic invoicing for public procurement, the european parliament is taking a step towards paperless public administration. the harmonization of the different national regulations on this subject at european level will make it possible to facilitate the functioning of the internal market, reducing operational costs and contributing to a reduction in prices.
in writing. - sometimes companies prefer not to participate in crossborder procurement because of the lack of interoperability of electronic invoicing systems and competition is consequently reduced and compromised. since the directive does not provide for the complete harmonisation of national electronic invoicing systems, the situation will not change much in a positive way. i agree with the rapporteur that the practicality and ease of use of the standard should be tested in a trial phase, in particular to establish whether it works, whether it is easy to apply and whether it can be developed by contracting authorities and contracting entities at a limited cost.
in writing. - the proposal for a directive aims to promote interoperability in electronic invoicing for public contracts, which is a further step towards a paperless public administration. it is therefore important to support the use of electronic invoicing in public procurement and the promotion of award procedures based on electronic systems in general.
in writing. - the de castro report aims to secure funding for the 2016 farm structure survey and related projects. the text is not critical and can be shared, which is why i am voting in favour of it.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of this report by mr de castro because i think it is useful to proceed with the commission's proposal without amendments. i therefore agree with the use of the simplified procedure and i am in favour of the regulation. ensuring the funding of the 2016 farm structure survey and related projects is useful to allow for the continuation of surveys that require a considerable amount of resources from member states and the commission. i welcome the amendments to the proposal to regulation (ec) no 166/2008 as it lays down the financial framework for the period 2014-2018, sets the maximum amount of the eu financial contribution to the costs incurred by croatia in carrying out the farm structure survey and amends the committee assisting the commission. finally, the amendment, being fully consistent with the european statistical programme and with the union's policies, is acceptable and positive for the whole agricultural sector: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. - i believe that an update of regulation (ec) no 1166/2008 on farm structure surveys is appropriate and useful for the survey on agricultural production methods. i vote in favour of this.
in writing. - having regard to the regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 1166/2008 on farm structure surveys and the survey on agricultural production methods, i voted in favour of the financial framework for the period 2014-2018;
in writing. - the proposal aims to amend regulation no 1166/2008 on the structure of agricultural holdings to ensure the financing of surveys under the new multiannual financial framework. the proposed programme aims to provide continuity of support for the monitoring and implementation of the common agricultural policy by extending financial aid to member states for the collection of farm data, which are needed for analyses of trends in european union agriculture.
in writing. - the de castro report on the trade arrangements for certain goods resulting from the processing of agricultural products is balanced and acceptable, and i therefore intend to vote in favour of it.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of this report because i believe that it can bring benefits to the regulation of trade arrangements for certain goods obtained from the processing of agricultural products and that, by replacing regulation (ec) no 1216/2009, by aligning the new updated text with the distinction between delegated powers and implementing powers of the commission, it can bring benefits to the legislation in this field. the objectives of mr de castro's motion for a resolution are shared and the work done in conjunction with the commission and the council is commendable. this is a significant step forward and updates the annexes to the commission document, and i welcome the fact that the trade regime for egg albumin and lactalbumin is aligned with the lisbon treaty. the new proposal also creates a sound legal framework for the management of reduced import duties and import quotas as provided for in free trade agreements and for the management of the export refund system. finally, i welcome the amendments proposed by the rapporteur, which aim to ensure uniform implementation of the system in all member states, and those relating to ensuring the efficiency and smooth functioning of the trading system.
in writing. - the objectives of the proposal are certainly positive for the agricultural sector. i also agree with the attempt to define more clearly the commission's powers in this area. i therefore vote in favour of this proposal.
in writing. whereas the purpose of the proposal for a regulation is to align the current trade arrangements for certain goods resulting from the processing of agricultural products with the system of implementing and delegated acts introduced by the treaty of lisbon, to create a sound legal framework for the management of export refunds, reduced import duties and import quotas and for the adoption of safeguard measures under free trade agreements (ftas); since the proposal aims to align this regulation with the distinction between delegated powers and implementing powers of the commission, introduced by articles 290 and 291 tfeu, i voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - although the member states are primarily responsible for implementing the scheme in question, i believe it is necessary to clarify and ensure that it is applied uniformly, which is why the commission has certain implementing powers in respect of the uniform conditions for implementing trade agreements and the general framework of measures and procedures to be implemented by the member states. as regards the powers of the council, i agree that the setting of export refund rates is part of the political substance of the matter, which is why the reference is to the commission proposal com ((2011) 0629), the legal basis of which is article 43 (3) tfeu. i also support the amendment on the single cmo, which aims to ensure that imported products comply with the minimum european standards of quality and the environment.
in writing. - i consider the 2012 annual report on the activities of the european investment bank to be well thought out and to be acceptable, and for these reasons i have voted in favour of it.
in writing. - as a firm supporter of greater involvement by the eib in the present crisis situation, which calls into question the institutional aims of the eib in the face of the difficulties of the private credit system, i am voting in favour of the report and i agree with the considerations in the preamble, particularly points b to e. with reference to paragraphs 4, 8, 20 and 26, i would like to stress the eib's irreplaceability as a promoter of the indispensable investments in competitiveness, networks and infrastructure, once the domain of partnerships with national and local governments. the so-called 'cost of not doing' is estimated at about 30 billion a year for italy alone, a drain on resources for those systems which are now struggling to escape from recessionary spirals mainly due to the fall in the competitiveness of enterprises. i therefore join the comments on the l4sme programme and on sme credit: the commission's proposal for a directive on the coordination of certain provisions laid down by law, regulation or administrative action in member states concerning the pursuit of television broadcasting activities is a good one. it is certainly easier to focus on the best, but the eib's duty is to support smes, which demonstrate their ability to compete in the market, in their role as protagonists, also with regard to the europe 2020 objectives.
in writing. - mr marinescu has done a very good job. it must be said that the european investment bank is doing very well and it is no coincidence that even the most bitter eurosceptics are questioning the validity of this instrument to support the european union. we are talking about an institution whose officials have very great skills and experience in financial matters comparable in size rather than in shareholding, and on the other hand is able to pursue public objectives while remaining solid and credible on the international scene. indeed, the eib's work in support of the 2020 targets is excellent and the continuous checks ensure that public money is spent in the best possible way, as this report also shows. with these considerations in mind, i voted in favour.
in writing. - the financial instrument represented by the economic policies of the eib (european investment bank) during the period of the economic and financial crisis will have to find new life and effectiveness in the years to come. the eib's instrument must undoubtedly be a further step towards bringing fresh capital into the european economy for infrastructure projects. but this cannot happen if the austerity and austerity policies which are otherwise maintained continue to have a depressing effect.
in writing. - we welcome this annual report which reaffirms the role of the european investment bank in the context of the pact for growth and employment. we also note the importance of the increase in eib lending in the areas of infrastructure, resource efficiency and the knowledge economy, and hope that the full potential of the recent capital increase of eur 10 billion will provide better support for new lending for growth and jobs in sustainable sectors, especially in small and medium-sized enterprises. unfortunately, a lack of viable and sustainable projects eligible for eib financing has been identified in several european countries, and we therefore invite the eib to reassess its policy on the use of own funds in operations, to look for project opportunities more proactively, and thus to increase its financing activities, with particular attention to programme countries. finally, we really think it is essential that the eib can further improve the transparency and accessibility of its activities, its assessments and its results by ensuring better access to all information.
in writing. - in the light of the 2012 annual report on the european investment bank (eib), i voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - the way in which unused structural funds can now be used as a special guarantee fund for eib loans is commendable. another aspect of the report which i fully share is the focus on smes, particularly on the need to increase transparency and accountability with regard to the actual impact of eib operations. the transparency should also be enhanced with regard to loans made through financial intermediaries, possibly through annual reports on loans to smes, as suggested in the text. finally, i support the call for the eib to establish memoranda of understanding with regional development banks in order to promote synergies, share risks and costs and ensure sufficient financing for the real economy.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, today there are still great gender disparities in all areas. the situation has been further aggravated by the economic crisis. as if that were not enough, conservative countries are taking advantage of this situation to erode women's fundamental rights, as exemplified by the issue of abortion in spain. we would like to point out that the maternity leave directive has been blocked by the council since 2010. many women and young women are forced to emigrate from their own countries in search of a better life. unfortunately, the fact that today's recommendations on economic independence, equal pay, combating gender stereotypes, combating violence against women, equal decision-making, equal rights and equal opportunities in economic, social, political and cultural life were not voted on is an important and inalienable right, not only for women as such, but as human beings. the fact that parliament did not vote today is a serious breach of all these rights and i believe that this vote does not do our institution any honour!
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, although the report did not win the majority of the house, i voted in favour of it because it shows that despite the policies implemented in recent years by the european union, the road to true equality between men and women is still long. i agree that the difficulty of access to credit, to the labour market, to decision-making processes continues to penalise women more than men, to worsen the situation the economic and financial crisis which has led to an increase in the female unemployment rate and increased pay discrimination. we must not forget the central role of women in the family and in society. in rethinking growth policies, both at national and european level, gender equality, women's inclusion in the labour market and gender budgets will have to be given priority.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the resolution voted down today shows that women are still subject to prejudice and unequal treatment in their professional lives and are not even afforded the right protection in their family life. the final text called on all member states to assume their responsibilities by adopting the maternity leave directive as soon as possible and by encouraging the creation of public childcare facilities, in order to enable as many people as possible to reconcile work and private life and to enable women to be both mothers and workers without losing their workers' rights. the document also stressed the need to ensure women's fair representation in social and political life and called for the wage gap to be tackled and reduced. for years there has been discussion on how to promote employment and ensure gender equality, and then when proposals are finally made in this direction, some people decide to reject them as too expensive. once again the selfishness and shortsightedness of some member states have blocked the path that the european parliament has been taking for years on the road to equality between men and women. i did not lend myself to this further stop and i am proud to be one of the 289 who voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - while i agree with many passages in the zuber report in some of its parts, it presents unclear and contradictory aspects, so i have decided to abstain.
in writing. - i voted against the report because it is an overly ideological document, which explicitly mentions abortion as one of the women's rights threatened by the crisis. the intent of the text was to promote genderism, abortion as a right and same-sex marriages. the report defines abortion as a right and urges member states to legislate in favour of same-sex marriage. if approved, it would be a real assault on the dignity of women and the value of the family.
in writing. - i voted against the resolution on gender equality in the european union in 2012. gender equality can take on different meanings and different implications. this resolution deals with this delicate subject in an instrumental and partial way and cannot find my support. it represents a model of womanhood which does not correspond to my vision, it exasperates the notions of emancipation and autonomy, it says that abortion is a right or that the education of children should be entrusted to educators to enable women to work. gender equality is a very important issue which deserves to be treated with balance, without wanting to go overboard in the sterile and sexist claim. women must be valued in their peculiarities and characteristics, and must be supported in their weak spots which do not allow them to express themselves fully in relation to men. but i do not think we should push the issue in the direction of cancelling out its natural functions and its innate characteristics in favour of a flat and unconcerned equality. i hope that the european parliament, after this rejection, will soon be able to approach this issue with greater balance and reasonableness.
in writing. - from the outset, mrs zuber's report has focused on the negative effects of austerity measures and their consequences for employment and public services. however, there is a clear departure from what should be the core of the relationship, namely equality between men and women on our continent in all contexts and in the most transparent and impartial way possible in 2012. i did not vote for this report because i would have preferred a text that dealt with gender equality in all its aspects and not just in the employment and economic spheres. i supported the epp's solution, which i thought was much more appropriate, more balanced and based on statistical data on equality between women and men in the european union. we could have dealt with many other issues, such as the reduction of the wage gap, the fight against violence against women and the reconciliation of family life and work, all in a clearer and more balanced text. we should propose and find concrete solutions to the lack of gender equality and not just blame the economic crisis.
in writing. - gender equality is often the subject of deep disagreement between political groups and speculation. the report by mr zuber has once again given rise to the use of equal opportunities as a tool for the affirmation of new principles which are outside these areas. i believe that we must instead work to improve the rights of european women, reduce inequalities in access to employment and education and guarantee equal professional and wage opportunities. for this reason, i voted in favour of the alternative motion for a resolution tabled by the ppe and i hope that parliament will take action as soon as possible to strengthen the right of women to participate more actively in the economic, social and political life of the eu without having to sacrifice their personal life and dignity.
in writing. - the deeply uncertain situation of women, coupled with the difficulties of accessing the labour market (with a youth unemployment rate of 23.1%) and precarious employment, means that many women and young women are forced to emigrate from their own countries in search of a better life. in 2012, cuts in public services were reflected in reduced access to education and inadequate health care during pregnancy. despite the efforts of the honourable member to try to express the present crisis not only as 'economic and financial' but also as democratic and gender equality, in the light of the foregoing, i do not vote in favour of the proposal under consideration.
in writing. - the financial crisis has widened the employment gap between men and women, with the latter finding themselves in a situation of precarious employment and pay discrimination. austerity has certainly played a negative role in this matter, and i agree with the rapporteur that the impact of such policies on gender differences cannot be underestimated. i therefore support the proposed measures to promote women's creative and productive capacities, the elimination of direct and indirect pay discrimination, the right to be workers and mothers without penalty, the enhancement of wages and pensions, and the prevention of the causes and factors of poverty and social exclusion and the increase in prostitution.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of this report because it introduces elements of stability into the financial framework, especially in the wake of the crisis that has opened up today, especially the serious weaknesses in our banking systems and the risks affecting the behaviour of credit institutions. two aspects of this are particularly compelling to me: the supervisory mechanism is part of the architecture of the banking union and not a separate instrument and therefore allows for better coordination and functionality; the second issue is transparency: the financial sector must above all ensure the interests of consumers, in order for consumers' interests to be protected. finally, i believe that the european supervisory authorities must be able to carry out their tasks effectively without the value of the guidelines being called into question by particular financial interests, and above all by private interests.
in writing. - the financial crisis has shown that inadequate risk management and inefficient, fragmented and heterogeneous supervision of financial markets have contributed to financial instability and lack of consumer protection in financial services. with the establishment of the european supervisory authorities, the eu ensured a more stable and secure financial market environment, preventing the fragmentation of the union's financial markets. however, the european system of financial supervision needs to be further adapted to the single supervisory mechanism. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
in writing. - i do not share the position taken in the giegold report on the review of the european system of financial supervision, and for that reason i did not intend to support it with my vote.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of this report because it aims to improve the very important system of financial supervision, a very difficult but extremely necessary task in order to guarantee stability and security to european markets and investors. the various recommendations made show that, although a number of measures have already been taken to create authorities to monitor and anticipate possible financial risks, some basic aspects need to be addressed in order to enable these authorities to perform better the task for which they have been established. the esrb, the systemic risk committee recently set up to deal with the crisis, is an example of this, but it does not have the right staff and its opinions and warnings are often of little relevance to decision-making. the commission is also calling for greater transparency in all processes between the ecb and the commission and for greater cooperation between all parties. i am sure that these technical advice will lead to an improvement in all the eu's financial systems, giving greater stability to the markets and greater credibility to our whole economy at home and abroad.
in writing. - this report examines the results of the european supervisory system, whose failure is plain to see. the european banking authority has not done anything to prevent and limit the risks in the sector, which is the main cause of the crisis we are in today; the same applies to the european securities and markets authority and the european insurance and occupational pensions authority, whose powers we have called for to be revised and strengthened in another report voted on today. the instrument that has proved to be perhaps the most inadequate and totally useless, however, is the esrb, or the european systemic risk board. the strategic objective of the board should be to conduct macro-prudential oversight of the eu financial system and to prevent or mitigate systemic risk that may originate from within the european financial system. in addition, the board should contribute to the proper and smooth functioning of the union's single market and ensure that the financial sector contributes to economic growth by: this body, which includes representatives of the various supervisory authorities, the central banks and the ecb, as well as the european commission, is the very emblem of the european failure of recent years.
in writing. - in the light of the report with recommendations to the commission on the review of the european system of financial supervision (seif), i voted in favour.
in writing. - the report by mr giegold, which i supported in the chamber, calls on the commission to submit to parliament, by 1 july 2014, legislative proposals on the european system of financial supervision, following the recommendations attached to it and taking into account the experience gained since the establishment of the system of supervision.
in writing. - i did not intend to support the report in my vote because i believe that this proposal represents an excessive interference with the right of member states to keep international relations secret for security reasons.
in writing. - transparency is a fundamental prerogative of the functioning of the european union's institutions, and the possibility of free access to documents by every citizen is one of the most effective ways of ensuring the proper functioning of all community institutions. however, i believe that the proposal put forward by the committee confuses 'access to documents' with 'access to procedure', thus denying the need for 'a space for thinking and formulating', and therefore supporting the alternative proposal which in my view was better because it took account of this distinction, i am voting against it. it should be noted that article 15 of the tfeu already covers the matter in question but it should be noted that such a radical approach could constitute a breach of eu privacy rules. i do not mean to reject the principles on which the proposal is based, but the content does not seem to me to be as appropriate as that of the alternative proposal which was rejected despite my wishes.
in writing. - the right of public access to administrative documents of the union is certainly important for reasons of transparency of the institutions. this should not include negotiations between member states and other documents which should remain accessible only to law enforcement agencies.
in writing. - ensuring access to documents is essential to fully involve european citizens in the democratic and decision-making process: the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the establishment of a european union agency for fundamental rights. we need to take further steps to increase the transparency of the community administration and its legislative process. the legislation in force already allows us to have an important tool at our disposal: the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of personal data. we therefore call for an independent authority to be responsible for monitoring the classification of documents and requests for closed-door meetings. it is necessary to provide for a fast and streamlined procedure for challenging a refusal of access to documents, in order to reduce the time and cost of litigation. all eu institutions should also appoint a transparency officer. as regards international agreements, the commission and the council regularly classify all documents relating to the negotiations as confidential or secret. we believe, however, that since international agreements have an impact on eu law, negotiating documents and legal opinions relating to the agreement should normally be considered public.
in writing. - the guarantee of access to documents offers european citizens the opportunity to participate actively in democratic life and to hold the european institutions to account. unfortunately, this right to transparency is often not guaranteed. in the context of the necessary reform of european legislation in this field, the report by mr veld is, in my view, unsatisfactory. i therefore supported the alternative resolution tabled by the ppe, which suggests concrete measures to ensure a more transparent union. the latter proposal effectively balances the principle of transparency with the right to privacy and ensures better protection of rights of access to documents, helping to increase the trust and participation of european citizens.
in writing. - whereas secrecy and discretion belong to an era when europe was created by diplomats and officials, today, in order to safeguard the interests of the citizen, the legitimacy of the political system and the legislation of the union and to fight against corruption, a transparent administration is necessary. considering that the legislation in force, and regulation no 1049/2001/ec, on public access to documents, are not being applied correctly by the union institutions and that it is necessary to provide for a fast and streamlined procedure to challenge a refusal of access to documents, in order to reduce the time and cost of litigation, i do not express my favourable opinion on the proposal.
in writing. - the european parliament is voting to confirm its determination to demonstrate that transparency remains essential for a european union of citizens who can fully participate in the political and democratic life of their country. a transparent administration promotes the interests of citizens, the fight against corruption and the legitimacy of the political system and legislation of the european union.
in writing. - transparency is essential for a political and democratic union of citizens in which they can participate fully in the democratic process. transparent administration promotes the interests of citizens, the fight against corruption and the legitimacy of the union's political system and legislation. the eu must take further steps to increase the transparency of its administration and legislative process. citizens are clamoring for more transparency. although regulation (ec) no 1049/2001 needs urgent revision, the commission and the council are not making progress towards adopting an instrument that would allow for greater transparency, as parliament has called for, and for this reason i will vote against it.
in writing. - the legislation on public access to documents is not being applied correctly by the union institutions, especially because the institutions often still apply the exceptions to transparency in a generalised way. however, transparency is essential for a union of citizens, political and democratic, in which they can participate fully in public affairs. also in the context of international agreements, the commission and the council often classify all documents relating to the negotiations as confidential or secret, even at the request of the negotiating party, but as international agreements have an impact on eu law, negotiating documents and legal opinions relating to the agreement should normally be public.
in writing. - full support for the report by mrs de keyser. despite international conventions, torture persists around the world: according to amnesty international's 2013 report, which examines the situation in 159 countries, 112 countries (70%) tortured their citizens. in 80 of these (50%) arbitrary trials were held. in 50 countries (31%) the security forces have been blamed for unlawful killings in peacetime; 21% carried out death sentences. in 57 countries (36%) prisoners of conscience remained in prison; in 31 countries (19%) there were victims of enforced disappearance. these are figures that speak for themselves! i appreciate that the report highlights, inter alia, the very serious problem of torture of children, also understood as the pervasive dangers of cyberbullying and online harassment; i have been very concerned about these matters during my term of office.
in writing. - i found the walesa report unbalanced, so i decided to abstain in this vote.
in writing. - the committee on petitions plays a key role in connecting voters with parliament, the figures about its increasing use by citizens can be seen in two completely different ways: the first is positive, in the form of greater active participation by the whole population, which, if used to the full, can help the whole parliament in its difficult task of representing it in the best possible way, the second is much less positive in the form of the growing workload that is being submitted to the peti committee. the peti committee regrets the exponential increase in petitions and warns that the time taken to respond to citizens is continuing to increase. i therefore agree with the peti committee that a filter must be set up at the origin of these petitions to screen out those which are clearly not admissible, perhaps by increasingly exploiting the technological means at our disposal. i also believe that the work done in examining petitions is so important that it is extremely necessary to put the commission in charge of it in the best possible position to do so, also in view of a future and at least desirable greater participation of citizens which necessarily entails a much greater amount of work.
in writing. - the entry into force of the lisbon treaty has virtually doubled the european parliament's legislative powers, increasing its relative power vis-à-vis the other eu institutions. the committee on petitions was also concerned by the incorporation of the charter of fundamental rights into the treaty and the final approval of the new participatory mechanism for european citizens: the european citizens' initiative is a good example. we believe that the difficult application of the charter of fundamental rights has, however, led to a strong sense of mistrust among european citizens, as evidenced by the sharp increase in the number of petitions submitted this year, which may also be due to a feeling of distrust and lack of confidence in public authorities, accentuated by the heavy economic and financial crisis that has been weighing on europeans since 2008. to meet these growing expectations, we call for urgent measures to ensure an efficient and transparent process for the examination of petitions. the web portal currently in the experimental phase could become a very useful online platform for better informing citizens about their rights to petition. we therefore call for all actions to improve public awareness of the fundamental right enjoyed by all eu citizens and residents.
in writing. - over 10,000 petitions in five years. almost 3 000 in 2013 alone, some 42% more than in 2012. the committee on petitions ends the legislature with a positive record. european citizens have identified the committee on petitions as the instrument to obtain justice for their rights violated by national institutions. the ilva case, the 'waste emergencies' in campania and lazio, the protection and rights of disabled people at work, the rcauto tariff case and the protection of the rights of minors have often only been able to gain national attention after they had reached the european parliament. the petitions discussed have often provided important legislative input to other parliamentary committees, and in some cases, have resulted in infringement proceedings. from the point of view of the committee on petitions, europe has never seemed more popular and important to the citizens of the community and italy. this is an important legacy which i hope will be improved over time in the next legislature, using the new instruments we have approved: the commission has also adopted a proposal for a regulation on the simplification of the procedure for the admissibility of applications.
in writing. - whereas the seventh legislature was marked by the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon in december 2009, which doubled the european parliament's legislative powers, increasing its relative power in relation to the other eu institutions. given that the peti committee has been identified within parliament as the committee to be automatically associated with the legislative committee responsible for the organisation of hearings of the organisers of the european citizens' initiative (eci), the development of the peti web portal will act as the main filter for inadmissible petitions. the web portal will certainly improve the quality of registered petitions thanks to a short questionnaire that the signatory has to fill in. in other words, it can be expected that the documents registered are genuine petitions, complying with the provisions of the treaty, and not schematic comments or requests for information which do not fall within the scope of a petition. the portal will also help citizens to identify alternative sources of assistance if the committee is unable to answer their questions due to lack of legal competence. in the light of the foregoing, i shall vote in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - the report adopted clarifies the central role of the peti commission in responding to the direct needs of citizens. the current financial crisis has been the reason behind the exponential increase in petitions, namely, 2,885 petitions in 2013 alone. the commission will therefore continue to play its specific role alongside the europeans with ever greater vigour.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union is the second largest producer and importer of fruit and vegetables in the world. the sector employs some 650,000 people and, together with flower, bulb and potted plant production, accounts for 44% of world production. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the matter. combating unfair trading practices; encouraging producer organisations in the sector which play a key role in strengthening bargaining power; promoting the sector through innovation, research, adaptation and mitigation of the climate change impacts; encouraging the consumption of fruit and vegetables; the eu school fruit programme; improving farming methods; to encourage apprenticeships for young people in the agricultural sector. in view of all this, however, it is unacceptable that the report should give priority to the use of gmos in horticulture and that it should provide for a reassessment of the current ban on the use of certain types of pesticides.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union is the second largest producer and importer of fruit and vegetables in the world. the horticultural sector is today a very important sector to be protected and promoted, providing tools and measures to be able to compete better on the global market. innovation, research and commercialisation measures are becoming essential if the sector is to continue to maintain a relevant position on the international scene. in the face of an increasingly specialized and modern sector, we note the presence of a workforce that is not professionally adequate. member states need to focus on apprenticeships and training and to increase the skills of the current and future workforce in order to create new job opportunities for young people.
in writing. - the horticultural sector accounts for 18% of the total value of eu agricultural production. this should make us reflect on the enormous potential of the sector and the need for the european union to develop legislation that enables the sector to meet the challenges of adapting to the effects of climate change and the increasing food needs of a growing global population, while reducing its impact on the environment. the commission is therefore called upon to initiate support programmes for eu farmers and research programmes leading to technological advances in order to make healthy, safe, nutritious and affordable food available. another priority is to reduce the regulatory burden on smes in the horticultural sector.
in writing. - i did not intend to vote in favour of the mcintyre report analysing the future of the horticultural sector in europe; i believe that the text, while emphasizing the positive aspects of horticulture, can be exploited and used to open the door to greater use of fertilisers and gmos.
in writing. - the development of the horticultural sector, given the vast number of players involved and the weight it has not only in the economic sector but also in the environmental, social and health sectors, represents a very wide and complex field of intervention, involving european and national authorities without essentially neglecting the needs of the po and individual producers. i welcome the valuable guidance presented by the committee on agriculture and rural development, which highlights some key points for action, such as the need for targeted investment in research and development, as already indicated in directive 2009/128/ec, the need to clearly show the scientific basis underlying all decisions on restrictions to all relevant market players and of paramount importance, given current unemployment rates, the introduction of legislation to facilitate seasonal work and the specific training of young people in the sector. i believe that, given the potential of the european horticultural sector, an improvement in its condition could be a more than proportionate improvement for the whole of europe and its citizens.
in writing. - the horticultural sector is a very important sector for european agriculture and especially for italian agriculture, since fruit and vegetables are the basis of a healthy and correct diet. this sector has enormous potential but faces many challenges today: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the future of the common agricultural policy. to meet these challenges, the commission cannot simply introduce new regulations but must intervene, above all, by encouraging research activities and supporting joint investments which make it possible to select new varieties, production techniques and products. investment in the training of the workforce is also needed, as the sector is experiencing a shortage of qualified and competent employees. finally, investment is needed in the training of young people, through training courses for future horticultural workers.
in writing. - given that the horticultural sector accounts for 18% of the total value of eu agricultural production and uses just 3% of the union's cultivated land, it faces numerous challenges, from adapting to the effects of climate change, to meeting the food needs of a growing global population while reducing its impact on the environment. as farmers operate in an environment of declining profitability and increasing agricultural production costs, and as consumers increasingly seek safe and quality products, the supply chain in the fresh produce sector is shortening, reducing the number of retailers, also due to a lack of trust between the different actors. the existence of codes of conduct agreed by all actors in the supply chain, supported by a legislative framework and guaranteed by the supervision of a national arbitrator in each member state can give producers the confidence to invest. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the farmers' position is strengthened by means of greater cooperation, better internal organisation and a more professional management approach. these measures will help to ensure that farmers receive sufficient returns when negotiating contractual agreements with major buyers and retailers.
in writing. - today, with this vote, we want to revive a sector which represents 18% of the total value of european agricultural production, using only 3% of the land under cultivation. this is an area with enormous potential for investment, and we should be convinced of the importance of fruit and vegetables in a healthy and balanced diet.
in writing. - the horticultural sector, which includes both food plants (fruit, vegetables, herbs) and non-food crops (flowers, trees, grass), is an essential part of european agriculture. mr mcintryre's own-initiative report focuses on the need to promote local production, the specific challenges of climate change and water use, and the need to keep the horticultural sector competitive within the european union.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the united nations and the european union define torture as an act against fundamental human rights. it is anachronistic that they should still be forced to talk about it today. yet too many states still practise it, along with the death penalty. torture is practiced by institutional actors such as the police and in some cases by independent actors, and these are the most difficult cases to counter. today we want to say no to any practice that brings pain and suffering to all human beings, especially the most vulnerable, that is, children, and we will continue to fight so that child pornography is just a bad dream. this report on the eradication of torture in the world is a very important step forward in the work of this parliament.
in writing. - i strongly support this report, which denounces the continued occurrence of torture and other forms of ill-treatment throughout the world. we have the duty to reiterate at every opportunity the absolute condemnation of such acts, which are and must remain prohibited at any time and in any place whatsoever and can thus never be justified. with this text we underline that the implementation of the eu guidelines on torture remains insufficient, and therefore we urge the european external action service and the member states to give renewed impetus to the application of those guidelines.
in writing. - i support the report, convinced that the eu must be a contemporary reference in the field of civil and human rights. without taking anything away from the united nations, the fruit of the intuition of an american president of a positivist culture, after the bloodbath of the great war, i would point out that the first elaborations can be traced back to our ancient classical and especially christian cultural matrices and to the concept of the rule of law, which was widely codified in the middle ages. i agree with the points in paragraphs 2 and 5, 6 and 19 to 22 and 83, and with the sections on the protection of vulnerable persons. the eeas must act with courage and not be afraid to raise the problem openly in the face of the most hostile interlocutors, nor can we give in to the recurrent pressures exerted on trade relations. i believe it is our moral duty to bring about results, also against the shameful speculations in this field, which sometimes pollute a common struggle with elements of extreme and minority political agendas, such as the attempt to extend the concept of torture to an extreme extent to make it an instrument of criticism in western countries, where the rule of law prevails, while ignoring the barbarity and enormity of theocratic or totalitarian states or warlords.
in writing. - "torture constitutes one of the gravest violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms, has grave repercussions for millions of individuals and their families and cannot be justified under any circumstances": i fully share the words of the report on the elimination of torture in the world, because i believe that not enough is being done to eradicate violence, especially that perpetrated against human rights defenders, defenceless people such as women and children, or anyone who is tortured and unjustly imprisoned. i particularly appreciate certain parts of the report, including the one on the gaps in the report on torture of children and the one on women's rights. i believe that phenomena such as cyberbullying, child trafficking, child pornography, child soldiers, child labour, as well as rape, sexual slavery, forced prostitution and female genital mutilation, must be combated with strength and determination, through all possible channels and by providing those who deal with them with the appropriate resources. in conclusion, i think that any reference to awareness-raising, prevention and the social and psychological rehabilitation of victims is important: we must eliminate torture, but we must also witness and remember those who have been tortured.
in writing. - we welcome this report because it highlights the need to establish an integrated and comprehensive strategy to combat torture in the world, acting on its root causes. we believe it is essential to adopt general institutional transparency and a stronger political will to combat ill-treatment at the level of states, by developing development cooperation and the european union's human rights mechanism. we also believe that it is important for the european parliament's delegations to visit prisons and other places of detention where there is reason to believe that the accused may have been subjected to torture or ill-treatment and to request information and independent investigations into individual cases. the strengthening of the principle of zero tolerance for torture must remain at the heart of the union's policies and strategies in promoting human rights and fundamental freedoms, both outside and within the union.
in writing. - the use of torture can never be justified and justified: the european parliament has always been a party to the treaty of rome, and it has always been a party to the treaty of rome. unfortunately, however, torture is still used systematically in many countries of the world, both in the context of conflicts and as a weapon used by the various police forces to extract confessions or revelations. i 've always been very clear and sharp in my thinking: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i find it really hateful when the victims of torture are women or even children: it would seem so unheard of that it's not even imaginable, but unfortunately it's not, and especially in africa and asia we have had many such encounters of such naughtiness. europe must be a bulwark of civilization in this field, making an effective contribution to the eradication of this phenomenon, which we too have experienced and which we have fortunately overcome almost definitively.
in writing. - i vote in favour of the motion for a resolution on the elimination of torture in the world. torture is one of the most serious violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms and has a serious impact on millions of individuals and their families. for this reason, the prohibition of torture has become absolute under international and humanitarian law, the un convention against torture (cat) and is a cornerstone of eu human rights policy. by voting in favour of this proposal, i therefore reaffirm the european union's commitment to eradicating all forms of torture in the world and i call on those countries which have not yet done so to ratify and implement the united nations convention against torture and to incorporate the provisions concerning the prohibition of all forms of violence and cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment into their national legislation.
in writing. - in the light of the proposal by the european parliament and the council on the elimination of torture in the world, i have expressed my favourable opinion.
in writing. - i support this report because the union has always stood out as a promoter of human rights in the world, denouncing any abuse within and beyond its borders. torture is considered a violation of human rights enshrined in several pieces of legislation in the body of international humanitarian law, which is why the eu's external action must constantly aim at its elimination. i particularly appreciate the multifaceted approach taken by the rapporteur, who mentions various instruments of european external action and their interconnection for a cohesive and coherent european foreign policy in the field of human rights protection.
in writing. - mr. president, i voted in favour of this resolution because i share the view that the kingdom of saudi arabia (ksa) is an influential political, economic and religious actor in the middle east and the islamic world. it is also the world’s leading oil producer and an important partner for the eu. nonetheless, we cannot ignore that ksa is the only country in the world in which women are not allowed to drive. with this text we call on the ksa authorities to eliminate all restrictions on women’s human rights, freedom of movement, health, education, marriage, employment opportunities, legal personality and representation in judicial processes, and all forms of discrimination against women in family law and in private and public life. also, we ask saudi arabia to define a minimum age for marriage and take steps to ban child marriage in line with the convention on the rights of the child (crc) and the convention on the elimination of all forms of discrimination against women (cedaw), which were both ratified by ksa.
in writing. - the gomes report, which analyses the relations between saudi arabia and the eu and its role in the middle east and north africa, is well thought out and worthy of support, which is why i have decided to support it with my vote.
in writing. - i congratulate the rapporteur on guiding parliament through the dangerous, changing and sometimes uncharted territory of international relations in the middle east, clearly highlighting the eu's strategic interests on the one hand and the essential requirements in relation to the european acquis and values that must be reflected in our relations with the saudi monarchy. the concern about the unskillful methods and disastrous consequences of the west's response to the movements of the so-called 'arab spring' is now a classic subject of discussion among scholars of these subjects. the gulf countries see in american uncertainties and sudden military moves a sign of a dangerous lack of leadership; the european union has a duty to help the countries of the region to develop their economic and social policies. it is no wonder that russia's influence is growing in the whole area, in accordance with traditional alliances: the eu should follow these developments very closely. the concerns expressed in paragraphs b, f, h and m must not therefore obscure the urgency of protecting our interests in terms of security, stability and strategic balance in the area, falling into the classic logic of the best being the enemy of the good. relations must be strengthened by patiently promoting reforms and defending civil and human rights.
in writing. - i consider the report to be a wide-ranging one, aimed at stimulating reflection on the role of saudi arabia in the middle east and north africa, but above all on the role that the european union can play in influencing, stimulating and supporting a debate on human rights and respect for women in particular, in one of the key countries of the middle east region. in this sense, i believe that the european union must do everything possible to ensure that a constructive dialogue on human rights can be initiated and to exercise its power of moral suasion to allow human rights organisations to operate in the country. saudi arabia still has a lot of work to do, such as improving the sharia-based penal system, eliminating stoning, respecting the public practice of any religion and religious minorities, and removing all restrictions on women's rights, such as freedom of movement, health, education, marriage, employment opportunities. finally, i appreciate the request to stress the great benefits that would be gained from the country's active involvement in the settlement of the civil war in syria and in dealing with the iranian nuclear issue.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report for which i was shadow rapporteur for the ecr group. however, i believe that it fails to adequately balance the importance of strong bilateral relations between saudi arabia and the eu with legitimate concerns over the kingdom’s human rights record. instead, the report is almost entirely dominated by the latter. in fact, the report does not adequately recognise progress made by the kingdom of saudi arabia in some aspects of human rights and equality, in particular with regard to the role of women. the report also does not properly consider the important role played by saudi arabia in counter-terrorism or eu-saudi trade relations. i therefore feel that, while i am able to vote in favour of the report, i also consider it to be a missed opportunity to engage positively with the kingdom of saudi arabia, stressing our existing relations with it as a key strategic partner in the region, proposing measures to strengthen eu-saudi links, and also to work constructively with them to improve their human rights record.
in writing. - while recognising the importance of relations between the eu and the kingdom of saudi arabia, it is important that the latter proceed with political reforms for greater democratisation. the resolution stresses the importance of improving respect for human rights for the peaceful and orderly development of the country. i vote in favour of this.
in writing. - in the light of the report on saudi arabia, its relations with the eu and its role in the middle east and north africa, i have expressed my favourable opinion of the proposal.
in writing. - i support the report because it encourages the commitments made by saudi arabia in favour of women, in particular the right to vote and to stand for election in municipal elections since 2015. however, there is still a long way to go and i am pleased that the report takes due account of the progress that is still possible in the country in terms of equal rights for men and women. i agree that the saudi government should develop new policies for women, especially to promote their role in civil society and to combat forced and early marriages. i also support the call for changes and reforms in the female education system to strengthen the role of women in the economy.
in writing. - while the european parliament recognises the interdependence between the eu and saudi arabia in terms of regional stability, relations with the islamic world, the israeli-palestinian peace process, the war in syria, relations with iran, the fight against terrorism, the stability of financial and oil markets, it calls for greater respect for human rights, and in particular for women's rights.
president-in-office of the council. - madam president, tomorrow this house will be voting on the reports by mr albrecht and mr droutsas on the comprehensive data protection package, which was proposed by the commission in january[nbsp ]2012. this package comprises two legislative proposals. the first is a general data protection regulation, which is intended to replace the 1995 directive. the second is a directive on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data by competent authorities for the purposes of the prevention, investigation, detection or prosecution of criminal offences or the execution of criminal penalties and the free movement of such data. this is intended to replace the 2008 data protection framework decision. the council has welcomed these two proposals and has, on several occasions, publicly pledged its broad support for them. like parliament, the council is entirely convinced of the need to update and modernise the union’s data protection legislation in light of the significant technological changes that have occurred since the adoption of the 1995 directive. over the past two years, no other legislative file in the area of justice and home affairs has been the subject of such intense discussion in the council. in 2013 alone, almost 50 days of meetings of the relevant working groups were devoted to the discussion of these two proposals, and the greek presidency had already devoted over 10 days of meetings of the working party to this package. however, there is no hiding the fact that the council has not been able to make as much progress as you have done, and i am aware that this is a source of some frustration, as the honourable member mr droutsas has just mentioned. the commission chose to propose a regulation, rather than a directive, to replace the current 1995 directive. the commission had good reasons for making this choice. i am well aware that parliament is also in favour of the increased harmonisation which could be brought about by the regulation. the discussion of the regulation is very work-intensive. this is the biggest, most ambitious piece of draft legislation in the area of justice during the term of this parliament, covering all companies, public authorities and individuals in the eu. this implies detailed scrutiny by 28 member states. this shows the great interest of member states, which have held detailed consultations at home, with several ministries involved. experts from all 28 member states are working to ensure that the result of the negotiation is a high-quality legislative instrument. furthermore, data protection is a cross-cutting issue which touches on almost every area of life and society. this means that the implementation of the 1995 directive affects almost every area of society and a large number of different legislative acts at national level. the greek presidency is committed to progress on this file which is, as you know, a key element for both individual rights and growth in the eu. this file is of crucial importance for the digital internal market, as highlighted by the european council. i would like also to remind you of the conclusions of the october 2013 european council on the digital economy, which saw the timely adoption of a strong eu general data protection framework and the cybersecurity directive as essential for the completion of the digital single market by 2015. during the justice and home affairs council of last week, the member states confirmed their broad support for the territorial scope and the understanding of the key principles of international transfers – this is chapter 5 – in line with the position already expressed in the informal january meeting of ministers in athens. progress was also made on key provisions of chapters 1 to 4, namely pseudonymisation, portability of personal data, obligations of controllers and processors, and profiling. these are essential for the digital internal market. if, on top of this, you take into account some very specific provisions on data protection in the public sector, such as legislation and social benefits, pensions, youth welfare and public health, you will appreciate that this is an area of very great complexity. furthermore, these provisions are often intrinsically tied up with the institutional, administrative and even constitutional arrangements within each member state. our aim is to have a high-quality legislative instrument which is able to protect the personal data of our citizens and which can be applied in all member states. i am confident that, once our internal negotiation process is over, it will be possible for both our institutions to find common ground on these proposals and to have the two instruments adopted. i would like to take this opportunity to support this parliament’s view that the data protection reform should also apply in the future to the eu institutions. last june, vice-president reding made a commitment that the commission would put forward such a proposal. i would like to assure you that the council, like parliament, attaches considerable importance to these reforms. i would like also to thank the commission and, personally, vice-president reding for her dedication and engagement in this file. the hellenic presidency will make every effort to contribute to finalising the negotiations between the member states as soon as possible, so that we can begin discussions with parliament.
vice-president of the commission. - madam president, i would like first to say a personal word to the rapporteurs, to the shadow rapporteurs and to all their collaborators. you have been extraordinary during the last two years and in the preparatory years before, and i think that through your work you have really shown that the european parliament is a strong voice for citizens and for economic development and the preservation of our common values. so thank you for having done that, and vous avez bien mérité de notre europe. madam president, in may[nbsp ]2011 this house called for a reform of the european data protection rules. the commission delivered the proposals requested by parliament in january[nbsp ]2012: a package, as had been asked for in parliament’s resolution by your colleague, mr[nbsp ]voss. now it is again time for this house to act. now is the moment when this parliament has the possibility to make the reform irreversible; to show to the world outside that european citizens’ concerns have been heard; to give european businesses a single market in personal data protection so that there are no more barriers and there is legal certainty. so this vote will be an important part of the legacy of this legislature – a test of its willingness to fight for europe’s values. i welcome the level of ambition of the report which matches, and sometimes exceeds, what the commission has proposed. i welcome the fact that parliament has managed to work on the two reports in parallel and is putting this to the vote tomorrow as a package of revised rules. this is very important and responds very clearly to the voss resolution. the commission and parliament agree on the pillars of this reform. there has been a strong endorsement of the choice of legal instrument: the regulation, a single law for the whole of europe. we must do away with the current directive, which has resulted in a patchwork: 28 national rules that make life complicated and are costly for companies. the savings for companies by doing away with this patchwork come to eur[nbsp ]2.3 billion per year. so this alone is really an action for sme preservation. the level playing field will also allow europeʼs digital industry to compete globally. when offering services to europeans, non-european companies will have to apply european rules and adhere to the same levels of protection of personal data. this is about creating a level playing field between european and non-european businesses. this is about fair competition in a globalised world. parliamentʼs proposals will also put individuals back in control of their own personal data by updating their rights. explicit consent, the right to be forgotten, the right to data portability, and the right to be informed of personal data breaches are all important elements. these important elements will help to close the rift which exists today between citizens and the companies with which they share their data, willingly or otherwise. they will bring back the trust which has been lost. the benefits for businesses and citizens alike, as regards the one-stop-shop mechanism, are also confirmed. companies will only have to deal with one single supervisory authority, which will be the one in the country of the main establishment of the business, rather than with 28 different authorities. this will make it easier, simpler and cheaper for companies to do business in the eu and to build this digital economy, which everybody agrees that we need. this consistent application of eu law will also make it easier, swifter and more efficient for individuals to defend themselves, to be protected, and to have their complaints dealt with swiftly and on the basis of a coherent and strong protection mechanism. finally, if companies do not play by the rules, as is very often the case today, european regulators will be equipped with strong enforcement powers. the rules will give them teeth. they will be able to fine the companies which do not comply with eu rules up to 5[nbsp ]% of global annual turnover. the commission proposed 2[nbsp ]%. well, let us go for 5[nbsp ]% if parliament wants to do so. it will be a deterrent. it will allow our regulators to apply the law, which unfortunately they cannot really do today. these are the very practical and concrete ways in which the reform will help rebuild citizens’ trust in the digital economy and help european businesses to exploit the full potential of the digital single market. europe must act decisively to establish a robust data protection framework. i am impressed by the way the greek presidency has taken this dossier in hand. finally, somebody is leading this dossier. after the irish presidency had done some very good work we went into hibernation. now that spring is back, let us hope that in the council this spring will lead us to a summer decision. tomorrow’s vote is a crucial step along the way. parliament will make this reform irreversible. our citizens will say thank you to parliament. (applause)
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of consumers in respect of the use of certain medicinal products. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am not satisfied with the procedure followed in the draft regulation. the commission's text could certainly be improved, but it was perfectly reasonable. the opinions followed this line, while the rapporteur took a more aggressive approach. in fact, in the libe committee, the epp barely managed to draw attention to the number of young people who are creating apps, applications that use even a small part, often anonymously, of personal data and that represent a way for smart kids to earn a living. during the negotiations i also had the impression that these micro-enterprises were almost a disease to be defeated, rather than a world to be guided towards greater sensitivity to this problem. from an internal market point of view, i have not understood why inco's amendments on the consistency mechanism have given way to a contradictory procedure, with the principle of the one-stop-shop. i hope that the trilogues will provide us with articles that are in line with the needs of european citizens, and that they will be the data subjects or legitimate users of these data.
madam president, mrs reding, ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that businesses, consumers and households will receive tangible benefits from this regulation: the commission has also proposed that the 1995 measure be amended, but that could not be postponed any further. almost 20 years have passed and everything has changed. the modernisation of internet services has definitely necessitated this measure, which we welcome. the climate of mistrust also linked to the datagate affair required a clear legislative framework, which would really protect citizens in relation to concrete issues, citizens, families and businesses. the result is absolutely welcome: it creates a digital single market with a single point of contact, reduces administrative burdens in accordance with the principle of proportionality for the benefit of small and mediumsized enterprises, ensures simpler legislation, protects minors and vulnerable groups and at the same time establishes a level playing field for non-european companies operating in europe. this is certainly a real step forward, with a directive that could be launched with some additional elements guaranteeing the right to privacy on the one hand and adequate information on the other. overall, a positive outcome has been achieved, protecting fundamental rights, business and the safety of citizens.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in order to build a european area in which the right to privacy and the protection of personal data are guaranteed, these two integrated regulations must be adopted, because it is a question of giving effect to a new generation of rights and protections on the net. it is important that the provisions, particularly in the area of the protection of minors, on which we have made amendments which have been transposed, and the right to erasure which is extended to third countries, should be included, just as it is important that the scope of the directive should not only cover cross-border processing but also domestic processing. i hope that the council and the next italian presidency will work to speed up the adoption of this important directive, but also to achieve the much-needed regulation of over-the-top operators in europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there is a lot of hypocrisy on the part of this european and international political class, which does not seem to realise that it is absolutely functional to the system of the new world order. mass control of public opinion, of citizens, of the flow of data concerning private life but also economic and financial life. they obviously want to know everything, they are not content to decide the fate of our peoples in the closed rooms of the various bilderberg clubs, crowded with european commissioners. they also want to know everything about us and we still wonder, but it's almost inevitable, i would say, orwellian-speaking. what emerges from this reality, we should say from this incident, is the inadequacy of the european legal system. we have had a very long debate this morning on women's rights, and then it turns out that the european union did not have the fundamental tools to protect the privacy of its citizens: it is the triumph of the legal incapacity, of the legal foundations of this european union. or not? it seems to me to be a given. this reaction highlights the weakness of european law, which is concerned with the question of the length of time ... (the president cut the speaker off)
the rapporteur. - madam president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the possibility of creating a european public prosecutor's office has been discussed for many years. the commission's initiative in sending a strong signal for the creation of a common area of criminal justice by publishing a legislative package bringing together eurojust and the european public prosecutor's office, which is of course looking at an audit of olaf, can only be applauded. however, the european parliament must be recognised for its unremitting work, including within the crim special committee, in which i was the sole rapporteur, when we identified a list of priorities, a timetable and a timetable with recommendations to the commission and the member states for the period 2014-2019 and for the fight against criminal phenomena, including through the establishment of a union body that can prosecute such crimes, with particular reference to those that cause damage to the financial interests of the european union. strong opposition to community fraud, through strengthened judicial and police cooperation, huge resources being taken away and hundreds of millions of euros each year being taken away from welfare, cultural offerings, jobs that could have an employment impact on the many talents that the european union has: i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the problems of the poor. the european public prosecutor's office must be a structure, mrs reding, which is agile and lean, and it will have to work in synergy with eurojust, olaf and europol. the fruitful cooperation with the commission, as well as with the shadow members, whom i thank, the advisers, has enabled compromise amendments to be adopted in line with our expectations. the persons concerned are protected by judicial remedies, and the natural judge has been clearly identified. we have also expressed our views, sometimes in a critical manner, on the investigative measures, the admissibility of the evidence, as well as the closure of the investigations. we need greater procedural guarantees to protect the accused without weakening the institutional architecture of the system, further strengthening the judicial control entrusted to the national courts and strengthening the role of the court of justice, including with regard to the possibility of appeal. the council's half is now in the field, madam commissioner, and we shall be voting tomorrow. we welcome this interlocutory report which represents the genuine view of the european parliament. we want a european public prosecutor who can work well, who can make the best use of the european arrest warrant, the european search warrant and the seizure and confiscation, when it is in place to strengthen a common area of criminal justice in europe. the anti-money laundering package adopted today in plenary defines additional transparency rules which will allow the prosecutor to more easily trace suspicious financial transactions which could represent community fraud or corruption. the work carried out in this parliament is continuing, and has produced encouraging results, while respecting the principle of proportionality and subsidiarity, which we must also take into account in criminal justice. i conclude by saying that the confidence of the citizens in the institutions will certainly be strengthened by an increasingly strong fight against community fraud and so that the resources of the european union can be used ever more effectively to provide services to the citizens of the european union.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in taking the floor on this interlocutory report, for which i thank mr iacolino for his work, assisted by the other rapporteurs, i would like to state that i fully agree that the establishment of a european public prosecutor's office represents an added value to the area of freedom, security and justice. so i am more than in favour of the council involving parliament so that we can reach a common result. the need to combat fraud to the detriment of the european union, which unfortunately represents a scourge of serious damage to the functioning and development of the eurozone, justifies the insistence on the intention of establishing a european public prosecutor's office, to which all the member states will adhere, although the attitudes of the national parliaments suggest that unanimity in the council, as required by the treaty on the functioning of the european union, will be difficult to achieve. the centrality of the union's economic interests cannot, however, make us forget that the powers and procedure of the european public prosecutor are intended to affect the fundamental rights of citizens. in this context, i think it is extremely appropriate that the report under consideration should not only recommend to the council that the european public prosecutor's office should ensure the independence of both national governments and the eu institutions, but also make reference to the need to lay down rules to ensure that the european public prosecutor's office is protected from any political pressure.
madam president, the european ombudsman is finally making progress, thanks to the legislative initiative of the european commission and the work of my colleague, the european parliamentarian whom i thank as rapporteur, mr iacolino. the proper functioning of the european public prosecutor's office will only be ensured if it is an agile and lean institution and not one clogged up with bureaucracy. it needs to be of an independent character, it needs experience and professionalism, it needs quick decisions, coupled with thorough investigations that protect people until they are convicted. i hope that the european public prosecutor's office will be an instrument for guaranteeing and developing the area of freedom, security and justice which our treaty expresses and which respects human rights and fundamental freedoms, combining these issues with unremitting action against crime which is increasingly structured in a cross-border manner. of course, they are causing increasingly obvious damage to the budget of our european union. often, these types of offences cannot be prosecuted effectively because of differences in national legislation. there were no mechanisms in place to ensure that they were effective, and there are no mechanisms in place to ensure that they are effective, because the bodies that still exist at european union level do not have the actual powers to investigate and prosecute. the european ombudsman is a tool that rationalizes action at the european union level and ensures the results we all expect.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the creation of a european public prosecutor would be a first step, an important step, albeit not a decisive one, on the road to closer cooperation between the member states of the european union in a delicate and essential area such as criminal justice. it is important because it would give a concrete start to the process of harmonizing the various legislations in order to achieve what the rapporteur, mr iacolino, called a common european area of justice, capable of combating more effectively a crime which has long since assumed a supranational dimension. it can be said that crime has been much faster than the national states in taking on a dimension that goes beyond national borders. so it is not enough yet, because in addition to the resistance we have seen from the states to move in this direction, there is also a too narrow field of action and so i think that from this point of view we would all need more courage in giving common answers to common challenges.
vice-president of the commission. - madam president, i would just like to underline that the public prosecutor’s office is based on article 86 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. this article specifically says how this very unusual way of law-making should be handled. i would like to thank parliament for its constructive support of this initiative and look forward to the adoption of the interim report. i absolutely agree with parliament that you cannot have a public prosecutor’s office without having the rights of the accused being firmly anchored in a horizontal way. i absolutely agree, and that is one of the reasons why the commission has strongly underlined these rights. i would like to thank parliament for its continuous support in order to get the procedural rights adopted, and i call on the council also to adopt the still outstanding procedural rights.
the rapporteur. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we have heard contributions, criticisms, observations and comments on a subject which is of the utmost interest to the citizens. we need to put into practice a principle and a value enshrined in the treaty establishing the european union: the european court of justice. but at the same time we must remind all our colleagues that this is an interlocutory, preliminary report in which we have tried to express some criticisms, some specific points of view on the commission's proposal, which we nevertheless welcome in its complexity: procedural rights and protection of the accused, guarantees, concrete assessment of costs by eliminating inappropriate ones, clear definition of the natural judge, clarity on institutions such as archiving and compromise, as well as on the powers of the public prosecutor's office. of course, this dossier will have to be accompanied by an olaf audit once the office is set up, activated and operational. we need a power of attorney which will best combat fraud in the community, which will guarantee cooperation and speed of decision. we need a flexible and streamlined structure that makes justice efficient, protects the citizen, protects and guarantees the rights of the accused, and ensures quick decisions. in this way, citizens will certainly be able to regain their trust in the european institutions, and the european public prosecutor will be able to secure a number of resources which would otherwise be withdrawn from the common use and instead allocated to criminal or corrupt systems. i therefore naturally continue to encourage my colleagues, recalling the substantial agreement that was reached during the libe committee's work, and i am sure that there will be support again tomorrow morning and that the european public prosecutor will have taken a decisive step towards the adoption of a final text.
member of the commission. - madam president, i always have good concluding statements prepared on turkey, but i rarely use them because the debate always makes me think about how to react in the best way to the wide spectrum of other views. so let me offer you – as these will be my last comments on a report on turkey in this european parliament with me in this position – three more personal points. the first is that there is only one way to become a european union member state: to deliver fully on all chapters of the accession process. there is no derogation from the fundamental freedoms, rule of law, accountability and separation of powers. there are no interim periods. there is no shortcut which would ignore this value-based accession process where conditionality is our main instrument. what i have always expected from this house is that it will put the right questions to me and help me to find the right answers. but you will not help me or my successor if you keep saying that we should be more demanding on the one hand but also more restrictive as far as the opening of accession negotiations is concerned. it is through those accession negotiations and the opening of chapters that i am really able to answer the most relevant question. i have heard it a couple of times before – not really today – and it is this: do we want the european union to continue to be the benchmark for the turkish reforms or not? this is the question. secondly, there is no other way to find a comprehensive settlement to the cyprus issue than one which is in line with the principles on which the european union is based. i am happy to see that, with turkish involvement, we have been able to see progress there. just today, two negotiators met in the united nations protected area. they will continue the discussion on friday, 14[nbsp ]march. they confirmed today that the leaders’ meeting will take place on 31[nbsp ]march[nbsp ]2014. there is a third element. a young boy, who was 15 years old, died today. many of you have referred to him. he died after 260 days in a coma after being injured by a tear-gas canister shot by police during the gezi park protests. it is extremely sad, but it is also an important reminder of the turkish people’s aspirations. i have held those aspirations as the leading light in my efforts, and i will always do so. (applause)
he is seeking the presidency of the council. - madam president, i thank the house for an interesting debate which, i believe, clearly shows how necessary it is to continue to encourage political and economic reforms in turkey. this is the best way forward and we must continue in this direction. as your resolution also points out, all sides have much to gain from progress in the negotiations and from the policy of further political and economic reforms in turkey. the presidency, together with the member states and the commission, is doing everything possible to make progress. turkey is an important partner of the european union and progress in its rapprochement with the european union is and will be to the benefit of all. the opening of negotiating funds is not an end in itself. it is the culmination, the culmination of a process. turkey is well aware of what it has to do in this area too. it has discussed this matter on several occasions with the commission, the council, the association council and bilaterally with the member states. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. enlargement is an intergovernmental process. progress depends mainly on turkey and it should not be forgotten that in the case of turkey the opening and the temporary closure of funds are also subject to the council conclusions of 11 december 2006. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. the commission is also aware of the fact that the turkish authorities have not yet taken any steps to ensure that the negotiations are concluded in a timely manner. we will continue to monitor developments closely. finally, i would like to stress the importance of the european parliament and of the involvement of the european parliament in the wider political process within which we operate. the commitment of the citizens of turkey and the member states of the european union to the democratic dialogue is crucial to ensuring continued support for this important historic process between turkey and the european union.
i have received a motion for a resolution pursuant to rule 110 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, wednesday 12 march, at 12 noon. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes, for joint debate, the report by marian-jean marinescu, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the establishment of the single european sky (recast) (com (2013) 0410 - c7-0171/2013 - 2013/0186 (cod)) (a7-0095/2014) and the report by david-maria sassoli, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 216/2008 as regards airports, air traffic management and air navigation services (com (2013) 0409 - c7-0169/2013 - 2013/0187 (cod)) (a7-0098/2014).
the rapporteur. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking my shadow colleagues for their very constructive collaboration in the drafting of this text. the regulation on airports, air traffic management and air navigation services and the single european sky are, as you know, part of a package presented by the european commission in june. the aim is to improve the overall efficiency of airspace organisation and management through a reform of the provision of navigation services. the text on the single european sky, which is very complex in view of the impact it will have on the various member states, is very broad and deals with the most controversial issues, in particular, first, the inefficiency in the provision of air navigation services; secondly, the fragmentation of air traffic management systems. the regulation on which i am rapporteur deals with the question of aviation safety and the responsibilities of the european safety agency. the objective is to establish and maintain a high and uniform level of civil aviation safety in europe. it is a regulation which is very technical in some ways, but which also deals with the question of the governance of the agency. the first part of the text deals with adaptation to the new rules of the single european sky, including air navigation services and air traffic management; the second part, on the other hand, deals with the reform of the governance of the agency. on the technical aspects of the regulation, after hearing various speakers, the european commission, interested parties, i found unanimous agreement on the text presented. the regulation in its technical specifications applies to the design, manufacture, operational aspects of aeronautical products, including air navigation and air traffic management services, and pilot certificates. the aim here too is to establish and maintain a high and uniform level of security. the question of the governance of the agency is different and is dealt with in the second part of the regulation. the commission has put forward an innovative proposal, which provides for a reform of the agency itself, including a redistribution of responsibilities, by providing for easa to focus on the drafting and supervision of technical and safety regulations; the european commission for economic regulation; eurocontrol on operational tasks. this reform was evident from the outset, given the commission's willingness to change the name of the agency itself from european aviation safety agency to european aviation agency, it immediately showed that it wanted to bet on an agency like the us federal aviation administration. the european commission also wanted to implement the new interinstitutional agreement of july 2012, whereby the commission, parliament and council agreed on a common approach on european agencies, which, while not legally binding, is based on a case-by-case approach and contains progress on many aspects: the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the establishment of the agency, the choice of its seat, its governance, its operation and the use of its resources. the agency for aviation safety is one of the largest and most important agencies of the european commission and given its powers it is essential that parliament is its interlocutor and that is why the director of the agency will have to make a statement before the transport committee of the european parliament to inform about the activities and programming of the agency. the european aviation industry is constantly evolving. as you know, the primary objectives are efficiency, safety and in a world where the number of flights is naturally constantly increasing. it will be important to understand the role of europe, because the european countries can no longer compete with the big countries of other continents and only increasingly centralised management will allow us to maintain high standards of services, competitiveness and greater security. the results would be immediate, lowering ticket costs, enhancing safety, reducing the fragmentation of air traffic control, reducing fuel consumption and therefore less pollution, fewer delays on airplanes. it is of vital importance that we meet this challenge, which could also be of fundamental interest to our economy. i would like to conclude, madam president, with a small technical clarification, because of an error in communication by the secretariat of the committee on transport, two amendments, nos 43 and 44, which were already voted on in committee on 30 january, were not included in the text for tomorrow morning's vote. since it will not be possible to amend the text presented in the house for technical reasons, the two amendments will be put to the vote tomorrow.
the rapporteur. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too would like to congratulate mr marinescu on his work and say that we are talking about supervision, an end to fragmentation, the transfer of powers from the national authorities to a european agency, parliamentary control, more efficient services, more security. i do not understand mr ferreira's attempt to say that there will be less security, and i invite everyone to read the texts to find out whether there is any possibility of going towards privatisation which we have not dealt with in some way. commissioner, the delegated acts, you know very well that there is a clear position of the european parliament which goes beyond the positions of the individual committees because parliament wants to exercise control over the activities of the commission. but we know that with the vote on these two texts tomorrow we will have a lot of work to do together, especially with regard to the council. thank you all for the debate.
i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations, and that it should be involved in the negotiations. their rights and material conditions have been considered secondary, even irrelevant. this has greatly increased the suspicion of these people towards the european institutions; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. for this reason, i think it was important to tackle the package travel issue exactly as it was done, aiming first and foremost at strengthening their rights. the work done by the commission and i acknowledge and thank not only the rapporteur but also the other shadow colleagues who contributed to the final draft, the work done by the commission was to extend all forms of protection relating to the material conditions of these people. we know that today's procedures, starting with those for booking travel and package travel, are faster, more rapid and therefore increasingly used, but they are often quite flawed or prone to some alterations. so ensuring that consumers are also protected by the use of new tools and procedures which are different from those of the past is very important. i confess that i would have liked an even more ambitious profile than the one we have reached. i believe that there is still a lot to be done as regards the scope of the directive, but we are in the first reading and we will take up the subject with the decision that is needed at a later stage to strengthen even more the rights of the people concerned. for the time being, let us be satisfied with this first step forward, but let it be clear that as far as not only my own opinion but also the orientation of my group is concerned, this is an important, significant point of transition, but it is not the end. that's ahead of us, we'll try to get there as soon as possible.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank all the colleagues who have worked on this very technical report and congratulate them on the agreement reached with the council, which has not only managed to combine environmental requirements with industrial requirements, but has also avoided any new burdens for small and mediumsized enterprises by safeguarding the current certification system. although fluoride cases have a global warming potential 100 to 1000 times greater than co2, there are currently no safe and efficient alternatives for their immediate replacement. the timetable proposed by the european commission for their phasing out will not reduce emissions, but will give our companies and the research community time to find new solutions that are environmentally friendly without undermining the competitiveness of the industrial system.
in writing. the agreement reached with the council on the proposal for a directive on measures to facilitate the exercise of the right of free movement of eu workers aims to establish a general common framework of provisions and measures to facilitate the better and more uniform application of the rights conferred by eu legislation on workers and members of their families exercising the right of free movement. this framework, which fully meets the requests made to this effect and repeatedly made by the european parliament itself, makes the implementation of the provisions of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, the charter of fundamental rights of the european union and regulation no 492/2011 on the free movement of workers within the eu more effective. the text approved provides for a series of measures to support labour and social mobility and to promote equal treatment and non-discrimination for migrant workers, thereby helping to strengthen the single market itself and a fundamental right for all european citizens.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the euro is dead, the figures say so, the euro is bankrupt, it is in danger of killing europe, which was born with a beautiful idea! if there are eurosceptics, it is obviously because the crisis, taxes, suicides, unemployment and hunger have increased in the last 15 years, so i am sorry that president barroso does not have time to listen to some criticism. there is probably someone in brussels who defends the interests of banks, of multinationals, who talks about energy saving, who talks about business recovery, when we are not even able to defend our own companies. india, the united states, canada, japan have the makings to defend their businesses, their trade, their industry, we don't even have that! and so, in the name of defending the walking dead that is the euro, we are arguing for nothing by massacring thousands of businesses and halving the real value of wages, salaries and our real estate. so the only thing to do is to take note of it and - unless you want europe to die with the euro - rebuild everything from scratch, otherwise it is just words in the wind.
mr president, when you ask whether there are any objections, you must give the technical time to raise the tab and to stand up to those who intend to oppose an amendment. because if you say there is someone who is opposed and then in a nanosecond you put the amendment to the vote, it is clear that there will be no one who is quick enough to stand up. i would have opposed the amendment, i stood up but i didn't even have time to make myself known. someone else would probably have done it, too. so if you please, when you put the oral amendments to the vote and ask if there are any objections, look first, out of respect for the rules.
the rapporteur. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i will be very brief. after many years of waiting, the european ombudsman could soon become a reality. i thank my shadow colleagues for their ideas and contributions to the improvement of the text, which is very good, but which the commission has put forward. the fight against european fraud, which is worth hundreds of millions of euros a year, can be tackled more effectively and efficiently by an agile and streamlined body which nevertheless guarantees speed of decision-making and, above all, procedures for defence against those who are being investigated. we hope that as many member states as possible will share the european project of a body, the european public prosecutor's office, which defends the lawful economy and the citizens of the european union.
in writing. - the zala report on the regional role of pakistan and its political relations with the eu is well thought out and free of particular criticisms, which is why i voted in favour of it.
in writing. - pakistan is certainly a country with which the european union must cooperate in a serious and constructive way because of its strategic role in the asian region: i believe that this report proposed by the afet committee is therefore aimed at strengthening the existing relations, without forgetting the elements which can create friction between the union and pakistan and which we want to overcome in order to build a more cohesive partnership. i am in favour of a stronger role for the union in the international arena, for a union which is not afraid to make its voice heard when, for example, human rights are not respected, or when nuclear proliferation threatens us all. a lot of progress has been made in pakistan and the march 2013 elections are an example of that. the eu intends to encourage political elites to strengthen democratic institutions, the rule of law, security and the judiciary. but much remains to be done in respect of human rights, women's education and the protection of religious minorities. finally, i am in favour of a broader european strategy for the region, as called for, including improved relations with india, china and iran.
in writing. - i believe that this report strikes the right balance between recognising the progress towards a democratic state made by the pakistani political elites and the steps that they, together with civil society, still have to take in order to achieve the full establishment of the rule of law. indeed, deep reforms are still needed in the country. i certainly appreciate the efforts to achieve lasting peace in the region, but i believe that the pakistani government's intentions are genuine and aimed at resolving all the outstanding religious and political issues.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr zala's report on pakistan's regional role and its political relations with the european union, which must be directed primarily towards the consolidation of democracy and geopolitical stability in south-east asia and the intensification of the fight against terrorism.
in writing. - the terho report analysing the nato anti-ballistic shield project is balanced and acceptable, and i therefore intend to vote in favour of it.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of this report on the creation of a missile shield to protect the european union from the multiplication of threats arising from the proliferation of nuclear weapons and other weapons of mass destruction and from the spread of ballistic missiles because i believe that the issue of european security is of fundamental importance to the member countries, and that a close and renewed cooperation between the eu and nato can fully guarantee it. i believe that the ballistic missile defence (bmd) capability developed by nato can also bring great benefits to relations between the european union and the united states and that the essential american contribution to the bmd is a confirmation of the us interest and commitment and partner in the transatlantic link. finally, i share the rapporteur's view on russia: the bmd plan is in no way aimed at creating tensions with the country led by putin. i think it is very positive that nato is prepared to cooperate with russia on the basis of cooperation between two independent missile defence systems.
in writing. - i share the report's defensive connotation of bmd technologies, developed within nato to defend its members against ballistic attacks. i also welcome the fact that the report takes account of the pooling and sharing arrangements typical of the common security and defence policy, which is a useful tool in terms of rationalisation, savings and greater efficiency and interoperability of forces.
in writing. - i agree with the positions taken in the adrover report on the european fisheries sector and the eu-thailand free trade agreement, and in particular i agree that accession to the agreement should be subject to careful examination of the internal market and attention to illegal fishing.
in writing. - as i supported the report on the framework agreement on comprehensive partnership and cooperation with the republic of indonesia in the last plenary session, i am now expressing my support for the eu-thailand free trade agreement, because i believe that regional integration between the asean countries is very important, that the agreement with thailand is an essential pillar of this process, and that the ultimate objective is the conclusion of an interregional agreement between the union and asean. the focus of this report, namely the european fisheries sector and the possible repercussions of an agreement with thailand, is, i believe, extremely agreeable for more than one reason. firstly, because the rapporteur is calling for fishery products such as canned tuna, of which thailand is the world's largest producer, to be treated as sensitive products. furthermore, increased access for thai canned and prepared tuna should only be allowed after rigorous impact assessments and in close cooperation with the industry. finally, i think it is essential that thai imports be subject to the same conditions of competition as european fishery products.
in writing. - action must be taken now to give due weight to the fisheries and fish processing industries in the european union, which are vital to the food supply of its citizens and to the livelihood of coastal areas. the challenges posed by rising fuel prices in the extractive sector, quotas and labour shortages must not prevent the choices needed to restore the competitiveness of a sector which is now being severely weakened by the liberalizations in some developing countries with abundant marine resources.
in writing. - in today's society, food plays an extremely important role. on the one hand, further efforts must be made to put an end to the unacceptable problems of hunger and the supply of drinking water; the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the matter, and that the council should be consulted on the matter. i have always shown an interest and commitment in supporting initiatives aimed at preserving the gastronomic heritage. in the light of the above, i support the european union's commitment to developing policies aimed at food and gastronomy education from all points of view, nutritional and dietetic, social and cultural, sensory and gastronomic.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the european gastronomic heritage today, given the central role that food has been playing in society in recent years. health problems linked to eating disorders and bad habits are becoming more frequent and it is our duty to send a clear signal in favour of a healthy diet accompanied by a correct lifestyle. in addition to protecting the individual and his health, we must also consider that following a poor diet can lead to diseases and illnesses which then generate a considerable burden on the public and private health systems. while recognising that other factors such as lack of exercise, use of drugs and/or alcohol, etc. can also contribute to the development of certain diseases, i believe it is essential to focus on prevention by working more on a food and gastronomy culture in order to raise awareness of a more conscious diet. in the light of what has emerged about the value of gastronomy for the psychophysical well-being of the individual, for the prevention of diseases linked to poor nutrition and for the promotion of tourism, i believe that the eu should develop more timely policies to develop a 'food culture'.
in writing. - i voted today in favour of the report on the european gastronomic heritage, given the central role that food has been playing in society in recent years. health problems linked to eating disorders and bad habits are becoming more frequent and it is our duty to send a clear signal in favour of a healthy diet accompanied by a correct lifestyle. in addition to protecting the individual and his health, we must also consider that following a poor diet can lead to diseases and illnesses which then generate a considerable burden on the public and private health systems. while recognising that other factors such as lack of exercise, use of drugs and/or alcohol, etc. can also contribute to the development of certain diseases, i believe it is essential to focus on prevention by working more on a food and gastronomy culture in order to raise awareness of a more conscious diet. in the light of what has emerged about the value of gastronomy for the psychophysical well-being of the individual, for the prevention of diseases linked to poor nutrition and for the promotion of tourism, i believe that the eu should develop more timely policies to develop a 'food culture'.
in writing. - the ayxela report on the european gastronomic heritage is balanced and acceptable in all its aspects, which is why i have voted in favour of it.
in writing. - the importance of the gastronomic heritage as a place of convergence of culture, identity, agricultural techniques, prevention and well-being, not to mention entrepreneurship, promotion of the territory, safeguarding quality markets for our products, has already been written by the rapporteur in an effective summary that does not require further annotation: i certainly anticipate a vote in favour. i would like to stress two social aspects of the who's statements on the scourge of obesity in rich countries (but not only). first of all, there is a social problem: in non-mediterranean countries, the costs of fresh fruit and vegetables are high end. this is a sign of a social divide, where large sections of the population are eating unbalanced diets and are suffering from obesity and related diseases, creating a spiral of vulnerability where social causes and health problems are intertwined. in addition, the american phenomenon of generations completely unfamiliar with the simplest notions of nutrition and housekeeping has spread to europe: in a recent british study, 40 percent of those questioned admitted that they could not prepare a simple meal such as a hard-boiled egg and that they preferred to eat pre-cooked foods. a complete social disaster that must be prevented in good time.
in writing. - i applaud the idea of combining education and food culture. promote regional food, defend culinary traditions and territories: the european union has finally taken a step forward in recognising that each country, each region and therefore each people has its own history and peculiarities. traditional gastronomy is one of the elements of a people's cultural identity. the survival of traditional cuisine is a culinary and cultural heritage that must be defended and which is very often put at risk by the invasion of standardized foods that the eu itself wants to impose with, for example, foods of the same size, taste or colour. the european parliament therefore welcomes this promotion of gastronomic diversity and hopes that it is only a first step in the right direction.
in writing. - i fully agree that the european gastronomic heritage is one of the greatest treasures we possess, and i voted in favour of this report by the committee on culture and education. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of food and to improve the quality of life. of course, education alone is not enough, and it is up to all of us to combat the excessive consumption of 'junk food' which is taking over with the standardization of food and large-scale production, so i join the commission's call for an increasing number of events and fairs to be promoted to make known, alongside the joys of local european gastronomy, the properties of healthy food and its proper preparation. healthy food cannot be a luxury but must be accessible to everyone, from school canteens to supermarket shelves. investing in this means also reducing the extra costs for the health system with all the benefits that come with it.
in writing. - food education is and will always be a key element in today's society. poor diet is a cause of obesity, anorexia, cardiovascular disease, diabetes, and other ailments. i support this proposal because it is vital that the european union develops policies for food and gastronomy education. this food culture must be integrated into the educational systems of the various countries, and knowledge of nutrition and gastronomic culture must be assimilated immediately. training must be practical in addition to theoretical; we need our students to experience and educate the senses of taste, touch and smell, as well as the sensory pleasures of good, healthy food. the importance of gastronomy in tourism promotion should not be underestimated, because the traveling tourist when traveling is also looking for adequate gastronomic offers.
in writing. - gastronomy and cuisine are increasingly important forms of artistic and cultural expression, essential pillars of social relations. on the other hand, poor nutrition can lead to obesity, anorexia, cardiovascular disease, diabetes, and stomach problems. i voted in favour of the resolution tabled by my colleague, mrs fisas ayxela, because i agree with the need to encourage proper food education and culture and to recognise early childhood as the key age for the transmission of healthy behaviour in the long term. the eating habits of the peoples of europe represent a rich legacy for future generations. school and family are the ideal places to acquire and stimulate such knowledge.
in writing. - inadequate nutrition is the main cause of many serious problems, such as obesity, anorexia, cardiovascular disease, diabetes or gastric problems: the importance of proper nutritional education from the earliest years of life is therefore well understood. schools have a key role to play in this, and i find it interesting and acceptable to include specific targeted programmes in the teaching of primary schools. the report rightly emphasizes the regional and local dimension of gastronomy, which is a real historical, cultural and even touristic heritage of our lands. it is therefore right that the gastronomic traditions of a place should be rediscovered at the educational level, in order to keep them alive and not risk dispersing them into a single and universal model of food. eating healthy means living better and longer, with considerable savings in health care costs: there should be nothing to stop this, but unfortunately we know that the reality is a little different. there are big industrial and financial interests in food too that are all about profit, not caring about how and what people eat: this is the mentality we must absolutely fight.
in writing. - today's vote puts the extraordinary importance of food at the heart of our society, and denounces the imbalances which still exist in various countries. the european union must therefore take action to ensure that citizens have the nutritional knowledge necessary for a healthy lifestyle from primary school onwards.
in writing. - i agree that in order to avoid excessive and unsustainable expenditure on the treatment of diseases and pathologies resulting from poor nutrition, it is necessary to introduce nutritional knowledge and food and gastronomy culture into the educational systems of the various countries. gastronomy has also become an essential element of tourism promotion, so it is necessary that knowledge of food and nutrition, of taste education and of food and gastronomy education be integrated, as absolutely fundamental and obligatory elements, into the educational system of all european countries.
in writing. - gastronomy has become an increasingly important form of artistic and cultural expression, with major repercussions also on social relations and european tourism. for these reasons i voted in favour of the report by mr santiago fisas, which stresses the educational aspects of gastronomy and food and the need for the member states to protect a cultural heritage of primary importance to the citizens of europe.
in writing. - the european commission's proposal for a directive on measures to ensure a high common level of network and information security in the union aims to improve the security of the internet and of the private information networks and systems that support the functioning of our societies and economies. currently, there are different levels of capacity in the european union to manage information network security risks and a fragmentation of approaches to reporting serious incidents to the competent authorities. i therefore welcome the commission's proposal, particularly with regard to those rules which call for member states to increase their level of preparedness in reporting major accidents and to improve cooperation between them in this specific area. while i support the general objective of the directive, namely to ensure a high common level of network and information security, i do not agree with the obligation for the controller to carry out an impact assessment on the protection of personal data in the case of processing involving specific risks, since, in my view, there is a risk that the drafting of a purely formal and bureaucratic document, on the model of the abrogated security policy document, will be reintroduced.
in writing. - i agree with the albrecht report which analyses the proposal for a regulation on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data. i believe that it is essential to harmonise the european regulatory framework on the protection of personal data, and that we must pay greater attention to the protection of data processed in online services, which are becoming increasingly common in the lives of every citizen: social networks, websites and e-commerce services.
in writing. - i was rapporteur for the opinion on this proposal by my committee (imco) and i also took part in the negotiations within the committee responsible (libe). unfortunately, the text has been interpreted in a very ideological way, and that is never a good thing because opinions are polarized. i have tried to find a middle ground, trying to widen the consensus on the compromise amendments as much as possible and accepting the proposals of the other groups, but i have not found the same openness on the part of the other groups. the text adopted by the libe committee is much more unbalanced than i would have liked. however, i and my colleagues from the epp have succeeded in achieving some results both in terms of reducing the bureaucratic burden, especially for smes, and in terms of limiting international data transfers, because there is a risk of losing control of what happens. i would have preferred a text that dealt with profiling differently (legible as long as it had no legal effect on the person concerned) and a coherence mechanism more oriented towards the principle of 'one-stop-shop', but i voted in favour of this compromise knowing that the trilogies will improve it further.
in writing. - the proposal contains procedures to improve the protection of personal data, especially as regards their use online. the proposal not only aims to protect citizens who subscribe to online services, but also proposes a series of sanctions for providers of such services who do not comply with the rules. i therefore vote in favour of this proposal, which i consider to be a positive and proportionate one.
in writing. - the adoption of more effective safeguards on transfers of personal data to non-eu countries is an important development. the new rules aim to give people full control over their personal data and, at the same time, to facilitate the flow of business data within the eu. the fines that will be imposed on companies that break the rules will reach up to 100 million euros or 5% of world turnover. the new rules update existing eu legislation on the protection of personal data adopted 19 years ago to meet the challenges posed by new technologies and the growing trend towards using personal data for security. let me express my dissatisfaction and frustration that it is the council, or at least some member states, that are the reason why we will not be able to achieve the objective we set ourselves, namely to pass the reform of the data protection package by the end of this parliament's term of office.
in writing. - a common and harmonised approach to the protection of personal data is needed, guaranteeing the fundamental rights of citizens, with certain and appropriate sanctions for infringers.
in writing. - mr albrecht's report supports the strengthening of the right to the protection of personal data, while ensuring a unified legal framework and reducing the administrative burden on data controllers. it also proposes to reduce the commission's role in terms of implementation to the minimum necessary, specifying some essential elements in the text of the regulation itself and leaving the practical implementation to the cooperation mechanism of data protection authorities.
in writing. - the extension of the pericles 2020 programme to other member states should be welcomed. in a period of economic crisis such as the present one, protecting the euro against counterfeiting, whether in the form of prevention or repression, is a moral obligation even before it is a 'good political decision'. i am also convinced that the extension of the programme will also allow it to be improved, as it will involve new experiences and potentially new good practices to be implemented at community level.
in writing. - in line with the rapporteur's position and the vote in the libe committee, i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council regulation extending to non-participating member states the application of regulation (eu) no .../2012 establishing an action programme on exchanges, assistance and training for the protection of the euro against counterfeiting. pericles 2020 is a programme to safeguard the euro against the danger of counterfeiting. parliament and the council shall jointly lay down the provisions necessary for the use of the single currency on the basis of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. in fact, on the basis of the results of the monitoring carried out in 2004 and 2011, it was found that the programme has a reason to exist, since it has so far shown that it has achieved the objectives for which it was conceived. on the other hand, involving the other member states would mean a substantial improvement in the programme, making it not only more comprehensive and effective, but also allowing for greater prevention and combating of counterfeiting.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report analysing the programme for protecting the euro against counterfeiting. i believe that it is essential to combat fraud and counterfeiting of the euro and i believe that the pericles programme, having already proved its effectiveness in the past years, deserves to be continued and strengthened.
in writing. - the importance of the pericles project for european integration and security policies cannot be underestimated: the commission is also proposing to develop a new approach to the problem of the environment. significantly, the programme is focusing on border regions, which according to some studies absorb about 5% of the workforce, and which, together with dual-regime countries, constitute the ideal habitat for forgers. it will be noted, inter alia, that while the value of seizures of counterfeit national currency is decreasing (e.g. in the czech republic, 2013 on 2012), the value of seizures of euro currency in core countries (e.g. the netherlands) is increasing; national authorities seem to converge in identifying two or three member states which, mainly because of their proximity to logistical hubs and/or areas with a high crime rate, are prime counterfeiting hubs, able to seize any useful opportunity (such as the introduction of new currency, the orientation of consumers towards the use of smaller denominations, etc.). it is therefore possible that the fiscal impact of counterfeiting, which the commission has estimated at 676 million, should be revised upwards. in this context, the extension of the programme is essential and i therefore vote in favour of the report.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of this text, which contains recommendations for the future extension of the pericles 2020 programme to third countries, since the programme has been a partial success, and i therefore think it is right that it should be continued and extended to new actors, also in view of the increased use of the euro on global markets. the pericle2020 programme, which has been in place for several years, provides high-level training not only for the police authorities responsible for combating counterfeiting but also for those who operate in the sector without being directly responsible for supervision. this ensures a continuous fight against counterfeiting that affects a multitude of individuals and areas that go far beyond simple police checks and consequently achieve very encouraging results that encourage ever greater future use.
in writing. - pericles 2020 is a programme designed to take measures to protect the euro against counterfeiting. it is part of the eu's anti-fraud policy which makes a significant annual contribution to the protection of the financial interests of the eu and member states' budgets. it ensures that eu and national budgets are well protected, that money is used as intended, and that it reaches the beneficiaries. i could not help but vote in favour of this programme which, according to the evaluations carried out in 2004 and 2011, has proved to be very effective. moreover, it should continue to achieve its objectives in the future, increasing its effectiveness in protecting the currency and suppressing counterfeiting of the euro.
in writing. - the european parliament is determined to extend the pericles 2020 programme to countries which have not yet adopted the single currency, in order to have more effective rules against counterfeiting of the euro.
in writing. the draft regulation aims to extend the application of the regulation establishing the pericles 2020 programme to the member states which have not adopted the euro as their single currency. the pericles programme 2014-2020 takes into account all transnational aspects of the fight against counterfeiting, promotes best practices, combats counterfeiting and fraud, thereby improving the competitiveness of the european economy and ensuring the sustainability of public finances. the aim is to protect euro banknotes and coins against counterfeiting by supporting and supplementing the initiatives taken by the member states and by assisting the competent national and european authorities in their efforts to develop, among themselves and with the european commission, close and regular cooperation, including with third countries and international organisations.
in writing. - the draft regulation, which aims to extend the application of the pericles 2020 programme to member states which have not adopted the euro as their single currency, is broadly acceptable, as the evaluations carried out in 2004 and 2011 found that the programme had achieved its objectives and i believe that its extension to other member states will make it possible to improve it considerably, increasing the effectiveness of the prevention and repression of euro counterfeiting.
in writing. - the report by mrs diaz de mera garcia consuegra, for which i voted in favour, aims to extend the application of the regulation on measures to protect the euro against counterfeiting (better known as 'pericle 2020') to those member states which have not yet adopted the euro as their single currency. this extension will improve and make the programme more effective.
in writing. - following the signing of the partnership and cooperation agreement (pca) with azerbaijan, the eu has worked closely with azerbaijan to strengthen bilateral relations and take them to a new level so that they can finally promote prosperity, stability and border security. in addition, since 2009, the republic of azerbaijan has been a member of the eastern partnership and as such is among the countries with which the eu wants to create a fertile ground to accelerate the process of political association and promote economic integration, so that there are benefits for both sides. in full compliance with the obligations of the eastern partnership signatories, the eu has decided to implement a visa liberalisation and citizens' mobility policy to facilitate the process with those states that have so far demonstrated that they have fulfilled their commitments. following the council's authorisation in december 2011, the commission was able to open negotiations for the agreement with azerbaijan, which culminated in the signing of the agreement last november. this is undoubtedly a milestone in eu-azerbaijan relations and will help to extend the borders of the area of freedom, security and justice by introducing simplified visa procedures.
in writing. - i share the views expressed in the gabriel report analysing the eu-azerbaijan agreement on visa facilitation. i think the text is balanced and acceptable, and in view of the socioeconomic situation in the country at the moment, i thought it appropriate to vote in favour of the agreement.
in writing. - i welcome this positive development in the relationship between the european union and azerbaijan, because i believe that the agreement concluded will significantly strengthen and improve the level of basic cooperation between the two partners. azerbaijan is part of the group of countries that initiated with the union the eastern partnership agreement in 2009, one of the cornerstones of the union's foreign policy. however, a partnership and cooperation agreement was signed earlier in 1996. relations between azerbaijan and the european union are therefore stable, lasting and positive for both: this step forward can only improve them further. i particularly welcome the arrangements in the agreement, the simplifications introduced for certain categories of visa applicants with regard to the documents to be presented and the exemption from visa requirements for holders of diplomatic passports. i hope that the signing of this agreement and the consequent improvement in mobility will facilitate direct contacts between people. i believe that this is a key condition for the development of economic, social, cultural and other links which will enable the eastern partnership to take a further step towards the stated objective of full visa liberalisation.
in writing. - i believe it is necessary to facilitate the granting of visas in cases where persons are eligible for this right. i also think it would be useful to ease the bureaucratic procedures for visas with azerbaijan. i vote in favour of this.
in writing. - today's vote makes clear our firm commitment to facilitate visa issuance between the eu and azerbaijan as part of a process of deepening relations which must help to extend the borders of the area of freedom, security and justice.
in writing. - i share the rapporteur's wish that the european parliament should be more closely involved in the negotiations on visa facilitation agreements and in the joint management committees for future agreements, as the representative of the citizens and the highest democratic body in the european union.
in writing. - i have decided to vote in favour of the recommendation on the facilitation of the issuing of visas for azerbaijani citizens and also of the recommendation on the readmission of persons residing illegally. in the light of what has already been said on this subject about the progress made in eu-azerbaijan bilateral relations, i believe that it is right to continue to cooperate closely in order to further promote cooperation between the two sides. these agreements will make visa and mobility procedures more streamlined and faster, a clear sign of the eu's willingness to move closer to the eastern partnership countries: the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement. the obligations in the field of readmission are established on the basis of full reciprocity and full respect for human rights. among the new features: the applicability of readmission to the applicant's family members, the prerequisites for readmission (possession of a valid visa or residence permit) and the establishment of an ad hoc committee to monitor the uniform application of the rules on readmission.
in writing. - the gabriel report is acceptable, so i intend to support it with my vote.
in writing. - as in the case of the first recommendation by mrs gabriel, i am voting in favour of and strongly supporting the approval of the agreement between the european union and azerbaijan, in this case on the readmission of persons residing illegally between the union and the republic of azerbaijan. the agreement, together with the agreement on visa facilitation, contributes to intensifying relations between the two partners, extending the frontiers of the area of freedom, security and justice and is the remarkable result of the will for a continuous and thorough rapprochement which has been going on for several years of meetings and meetings between the parties. as regards the substance, i welcome the creation of a joint readmission committee whose task will be to monitor the proper application of the agreement. i also support the rapporteur's call for the european parliament to be involved as much as possible in the work of the joint committee, as the representative body of the european citizens and defender of democracy and the principles of the european union. i believe that the principle of good cooperation between the institutions must be respected and strengthened, and i therefore hope that the commission will keep parliament informed at every stage of the results of the implementation of the agreements.
in writing. - i think it is right to regulate the return of persons illegally residing in the territory of a member state. it is right to take more readily to those who are eligible for a visa, but we must also be strict with those who enter europe illegally. i'm voting for it.
in writing. - it is estimated that between 250,000 and 800,000 children are involved in armed conflict. children are separated from their families, recruited as soldiers, forced to kill and sexually abused, with devastating impacts on their physical and mental development. to put an end to this unacceptable slaughter, several laudable initiatives have been taken by the united nations and the european union. in particular, cooperation between states, organisations and non-state armed actors, the preparation of action plans and support for international awareness-raising campaigns can help to combat the recruitment of child soldiers and prosecute their exploiters. i support the report and encourage the signing of action plans for the protection of children in areas of armed conflict.
in writing. - i believe that respect for human rights must always remain one of the eu's priorities, and i agree that significant progress can be made in the protection of children by maintaining an open dialogue with so-called non-state armed groups in the third countries in which they are active. for these reasons i voted in favour of the sargentini report.
in writing. - the exorbitant number of children involved in armed conflict is a cause for reflection and always strikes me very negatively, as are the terrible numbers of children injured and killed, displaced, maimed or killed by land mines. i therefore welcome the following report on the humanitarian commitment of non-state military actors to the protection of children, bearing in mind that armed conflict has a devastating impact on the physical and mental development of children, with long-term consequences for human security and sustainable development. i welcome the rapporteur's calls for the states and non-state armed actors to enforce international humanitarian law and customary international humanitarian law, and for the recruitment and involvement of children under 18 to be prevented and stopped, and for their release and reintegration into society to be guaranteed. i also believe that the european union should support humanitarian organisations engaged in dialogue with non-state armed actors in order to promote compliance with international humanitarian standards, especially to protect children through political, diplomatic and financial instruments. for these reasons, i vote in favour.
in writing. - the real victims of war are children, forced to kill against their will, subjected to sexual exploitation, separated from their families. i voted in favour of the humanitarian commitment of non-state armed actors to the protection of children, because children are exposed to so many violations of their fundamental rights. we must put an end to the recruitment of minors, insist on plans to promote the reintegration of children and prosecute those responsible. it is essential to establish a constructive dialogue with armed actors in order to persuade them to change their behaviour in order to comply with specific humanitarian standards. children are often the main victims of armed conflict and it is our task to encourage action plans for the protection of children in any type of armed conflict.
in writing. - europe must make its voice heard vis-à-vis external countries by encouraging them to save lives by using their armed groups to enforce compliance with international humanitarian law during their military operations, dissuading them from using practices and weapons which run counter to this principle.
in writing. - children are often the innocent victims of armed conflict: today, it is estimated that up to 800,000 children are involved in armed conflict, while some 2 million have been killed. i share the report's view that a systematic and consistent approach to respect for international humanitarian law and human rights law is needed. the union, if it is to emerge as a model of democracy and a promoter of human rights, has a moral obligation to act in crisis areas in defence and protection of the fundamental rights of children, and i therefore support the proposal to support the united nations' international campaign 'no one under 18' by encouraging the signing of action plans for the protection of children involved in armed conflict.
in writing. - having regard to the fact that most of the contemporary armed conflicts involve the confrontation between one or more non-state armed actors and governments or other armed groups and that civilians, and in particular children, are the main victims of such wars, i voted in favour of mr sargentini's report. the text encourages states and non-state armed actors concerned to sign action plans for the protection of children in armed conflict with the special representative of the secretary-general of the united nations.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of this proposal for a decision because i consider delegations to be an important instrument for maintaining and developing the european parliament's international contacts. delegation activities can help to improve already established relations, such as those with the european union's traditional partners, but can also support the dissemination of the union's values in third countries, such as the principles of freedom, democracy, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms and the rule of law. i therefore believe that proper regulation can only improve the work of delegations and lay a new foundation for their future development. in accordance with the principles of public international law, delegations can promote the parliamentary dimension of international relations in an appropriate and responsible manner. having lived the experience of delegations firsthand, as a member of the delegation to the eu-mexico parliamentary committee, the delegation to the euro-latin american parliamentary assembly and an alternate member of the delegation for relations with the united states, i can say that they can make an effective contribution to the formulation of association and cooperation agreements, as well as to strengthening parliamentary democracy through dialogue.
in writing. - i find the resolution we are voting on balanced and without any particular criticism, and i have therefore decided to support it.
in writing. - i found the resolution on the provision of food information to consumers to be acceptable and balanced as regards the definition of 'engineered nanomaterials', and for these reasons i voted in favour of it.
in writing. - in order to ensure that we are increasingly aware of what we buy, eat and the consequences that certain food behaviours may or may not have for our health, i fully support this motion for a resolution, which does not condemn the use of engineered nanomaterials in food but requires stricter regulation in terms of labelling. the use of engineered nanomaterials has been widespread in the food industry for years now, but despite the various studies on the potential health consequences of their use, although no worrisome answers have been found, it cannot be safely attributed to total harmlessness to our organism, therefore requiring the food industries to indicate their use even when this is of little relevance, seems to me to be more than due action towards consumers.
in writing. - in particular, the proposed delegated regulation aims to amend and adapt the definition of 'engineered nanomaterials' to technical and scientific progress and to align the regulation with commission recommendation 2011/696/eu on the definition of nanomaterials. i believe that the definition of engineered nanomaterials in food should be aligned with other areas in order to ensure full consistency with the eu legal framework on nanomaterials. i therefore voted against the motion for a resolution.
in writing. - the droutas report complements the regulation on the protection of personal data by raising the standards of protection in online services. i believe that the proposals put forward are not only acceptable but also necessary, given the sensitivity of data processing in electronic communications; i therefore voted in favour of the text.
in writing. - i abstained on this proposal for a directive. i rarely do that, and this time i did it with conviction, to send a political message. this proposal for a directive was negotiated together with the proposal for a regulation on data protection. the same team, the same rhythm, the same ideology. i was not involved as much as in the case of the proposal for a regulation because the committees on which i sit had no competence, but i have experienced firsthand the atmosphere that prevailed in those negotiations. my group has always tried to discuss, to be proactive, to be open to compromise and indeed in the commission it has also supported some compromise amendments but, contrary to what happened with the regulation, the rapporteur sought a majority rather than a consensus and then insisted on passing the regulation and the directive as part of a single agreement, a package: you either take it all or you reject it all. voting against would have been a contradiction even in relation to all the work we have done together, but this attitude did not even deserve approval. the political signal sent must weigh in the forthcoming negotiations.
in writing. - the provision and processing of personal data by law enforcement agencies ad hoc to prevent criminal activities proposed here are justified and proportionate. they benefit the fight against crime. i vote in favour of this.
in writing. - first of all, we must clarify what is meant by personal data and then we can talk about how to defend their use and manage their circulation. i say this because, as things stand, markets are increasingly like a network where everything is tightly connected: the products offered in the supermarket are linked to the consumption in the pharmacy, the latter is linked to the information collected in the hospitals, and these are linked to the mechanical workshops. so we could go on and on and say that these links are created on the basis of our so-called personal data. at this point it is difficult and dangerous to break the tangle that has been created over the last decades. the impact would be negative both for the companies, which, lacking sufficient information, would no longer be able to extend and deepen consumer research, and for us consumers, who would be dissatisfied with an offer that no longer perfectly matches our needs. the adoption and development of this regulation must therefore be given the greatest possible attention.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there are 27 000 flights crossing european skies every day and a 50% increase is expected over the next 20 years. without an integrated and efficient airspace management system, there is a risk that europe's skies will become saturated to the detriment of safety and environmental sustainability. the single european sky project envisages the gradual elimination of national air borders through the implementation of 9 regional airspace blocks, which will make the traffic in our skies more efficient, competitive, safe and less dangerous for the environment. flights often cannot now fly direct routes with increasing flight times and fuel consumption; the cost of this inefficiency is about eur 5 billion per year for passengers alone. the regulation we are approving today will, on the other hand, allow us to create shorter routes, reducing fuel consumption and minimising the environmental impact of air transport.
in writing. - in 2000, the commission launched the 'single european sky' initiative, which brought air traffic management and navigation services into the framework of the common transport policy. the initiative, however, did not produce the expected results: no progress has been made in either the overall efficiency of the design or the use of the european route network. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the measures in question were necessary to achieve the objective of common interest. the recast of the regulation establishing the 'single european sky' is intended to accelerate the implementation of the reform of air transport services while remaining faithful to the original objectives. i therefore welcome the new proposal, which i believe represents an opportunity to speed up the implementation of the european union's flagship initiative, which has been delayed for too long. i also welcome the twofold objective of strengthening the independence of national supervisory authorities by strengthening the role of the network operator and redefining the concept of functional airspace blocks, which give the industry a more prominent role.
in writing. - the single european sky (ses) initiative was launched in 2000: since then, much has been done to achieve the ambitious goal of creating a true airspace. however, i believe that the single european sky project should be brought more into line with existing eu legislation, i.e. more precise definitions of union-wide performance targets and sectoral partnerships, which are crucial to the structuring and smooth functioning of airspace. i also think it is right to encourage greater coordination between airspace members in order to promote cooperation between them beyond the borders within which they operate. this process of harmonisation must also be put into practice by adopting a uniform procedure for the certification of air navigation service providers in the future and for the accreditation of national aviation authorities. this could provide a single authorisation gateway at union level for the performance of the various tasks. in addition, the european union aviation agency (eaa) would be responsible for issuing such certificates which are recognised and acceptable in all member states. in conclusion, i believe that the proposed amendments strike the right strategic balance between industrial and commercial needs and social needs.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the marinescu report on the establishment of the single european sky. the implementation of the so-called 'single sky' would have a cumulative effect on eu gdp of eur 419 billion, with the creation of 328 000 jobs. at this time of deep economic crisis, i believe that this transition is necessary to maintain the competitiveness of european industry at a high level worldwide.
in writing. - the report takes the task of bringing the reform to a successful conclusion, while maintaining a balanced approach to the issues at the heart of the debate on the single european sky: the scope of the services to be tendered, linked to precise guarantees for the skills wisely declined in the broader sense of human factor - the synergies between the commission, the eaa and the national authorities with their respective tasks, the various instruments for financing joint projects, the implementation of sesar, management by functional blocks, the meaning of the atm master plan. the system of declarations is well calibrated, with attention to the necessary flexibility at the entry into force stage, and appropriate to such a profound and demanding regulatory reform. the architecture of the transparency systems is convincing, as regards monitoring activities, management of information flows, the role of the ovp, conflicts of interest (including the cool-off period to avoid revolving doors contrary to the correct market dynamics). as well as developments, impact assessment of measures and verification of implementation (legal/organisational and material plan with sesar application). i support the report with a strong vote in favour.
in writing. - the single european sky (ses) initiative was launched in 2000 and brought air traffic management and navigation services into the framework of the common transport policy. since the implementation of the ems, enlargement policy coupled with an active neighbourhood policy have extended the european air transport market to 38 countries, making eu air transport a global player. however, the ses has not produced the expected results. i supported the recasting of the regulation on the establishment of the single european sky as it is intended to speed up the implementation of the reform of air transport services while remaining faithful to the original objectives and principles. it aims to strengthen the independence of national supervisory authorities, strengthen the role of the network operator, redefine the concept of functional airspace blocks by giving industry a more prominent role and provide for open tendering procedures for the selection of air transport support services.
in writing. - the first time that the single european sky was mentioned was at the end of the 1990s, while the first ess regulation was 10 years ago. today i approved the proposal for the essii+ regulation, hoping that it will have more success than the previous two and that the further corrections made to the text will make it easier to implement. the creation of a single european sky is of the utmost importance in order to optimise a resource which, contrary to what is commonly thought, is not unlimited, namely the sky. every day, 27,000 flights cross european skies, which requires a streamlining of routes that is only possible with greater cooperation of national authorities, which can be achieved through sesii+. the european airspace is currently based on national borders, there are 28 national air traffic control authorities managing some 60 air traffic control bodies divided into 650 sectors, this proposal aims to eliminate national borders and reduce the 28 authorities to 9 on a regional basis, with clear improvements in safety and costs as well as more efficient route management ensuring less pollution and benefits for passengers in terms of time and money.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the establishment of the single european sky, an initiative which aims to bring together air traffic management and navigation services within the framework of the common transport policy. enlargement policy has made the eu a global player. however, the desired results have not yet been achieved: the reform did not lead to a reduction in air navigation charges, ticket prices, average flight duration or fuel consumption. the ses is intended to accelerate the implementation of the reform of air transport services while remaining faithful to the original objectives, by strengthening the independence of the national supervisory authorities, by enhancing the role of the network operator, by redefining the concept of functional airspace blocks, by giving more importance to industry and by providing for procurement procedures for the selection of assistance services. i believe that airspace should be used more flexibly and that member states should establish enhanced cooperation across borders.
in writing. - the single european sky (ses) initiative was launched in 2000 and brought air traffic management and navigation services into the framework of the common transport policy. this is a very important regulation for two reasons: on the one hand, adaptation to the new rules of the single european sky, and on the other hand, governance reform, aimed at implementing the interinstitutional agreement on european agencies signed in july 2012. the main objective of this regulation is to establish and maintain a high and uniform level of civil aviation safety in europe and to establish the governance structure of the european aviation agency.
in writing. - i support certain specific points in the report which, taken as a whole, aims to identify a single and homogeneous 'european sky'. the different assistance services, including communication, navigation and surveillance, meteorological services and aeronautical information services, should be clearly defined in order to avoid any lack of clarity in the legislative text. i think that the overall proposal for a report is well balanced and takes account of the expectations of citizens, the needs of the authorities and the various players. moreover, by taking an approach which aims to exploit the synergies between the different actors involved, the report can provide practical help in creating a coherent network and a truly integrated european area.
in writing. - the recast of the regulation establishing the single european sky is designed to speed up the implementation of the services reform. the commission intends to achieve this by strengthening the independence of the national supervisory authorities, strengthening the role of the network operator, redefining the concept of functional airspace blocks by giving industry a more prominent role and, finally, by providing for competitive tendering procedures for the selection of air transport support services.
in writing. - i agree with the positions of the sassoli report which analyses the changes to be made to air traffic management and air navigation services. i believe that it is necessary to simplify and clarify the current legislation, separating the current overlaps between the single european sky and the european aviation safety agency regulations, and thus achieve a better management of air navigation and management services.
in writing. - the regulation covers airports, air traffic management and air navigation services and is part of the single european sky package. it addresses the issue of aviation safety and the competence of the european aviation safety agency (easa). this is a very important regulation for two reasons: on the one hand, adaptation to the new rules of the single european sky, and on the other hand, governance reform, aimed at implementing the interinstitutional agreement on european agencies signed in july 2012. the main objective of this regulation is to establish and maintain a high and uniform level of civil aviation safety in europe and to establish the governance structure of the european aviation agency. the text can be divided into two parts: the first part, technical, identifies a whole series of definitions, principles, standards and categories of organisations competent in the field of aviation safety, aimed at establishing european standard safety criteria. part two, dedicated to the aviation safety agency (easa), sets out rules governing the governance of the agency and its responsibilities.
in writing. - this is part of the measures to be taken for the increasingly necessary establishment of the single european sky. i voted in favour of this report, which is based on the need for common and extremely high safety standards throughout the european aviation sector. it applies to the design, manufacture, maintenance and operation of aeronautical products, to personnel and organisations involved in design and maintenance, to personnel involved in flight operations, to the design and maintenance of airports and to personnel involved, as well as to air traffic management and air navigation services atm/ans (air traffic services, aeronautical meteorological services, aeronautical information services, communication, navigation and surveillance services). the second part of the proposal, however, deals more with the organisational aspects of the european aviation safety agency (easa) and, in addition to the technical aspects, rejects the commission's proposal to change its name, in order to maintain the 'safety' aspect in the name of the agency. the report concludes by stressing that the creation of an agency with such extensive powers could ensure the more efficient operation of the aviation system not only in europe but also abroad, by ensuring the exchange of useful information with non-european agencies.
in writing. - the commission will be presenting a report on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment in the context of the single european sky. thanks to the work of the committee on transport, we have reached a good compromise which allows us to maintain a high level of civil aviation safety in europe, to establish the governance of the european aviation agency and the competences of the european aviation safety agency (easa). the safety issue is very important, as it concerns the control of certifications of components, aircraft and technical parts which must be issued by qualified bodies, and the training of pilots and flight personnel. in this respect, the member states play a key role, being able to intervene in the event of safety problems concerning these very items subject to regulation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the regulation on airports, air traffic management and air navigation services because europe is finally taking a step forward on the issue of aviation safety in europe. the aim of the text is to establish and maintain a high and uniform level of civil aviation safety in europe. the new rules laid down by the committee provide for a redistribution of responsibilities by focusing the european aviation agency on the drafting and supervision of technical and safety regulations, the commission on economic regulation and eurocontrol on operational tasks. the commission's intention to reform the agency was evident from the outset, as it proposed, among other things, that the name of the agency be changed from the european aviation safety agency (easa) to the european aviation agency, showing its interest in having a global partner in the aviation sector, following the example of the us federal aviation administration. the european aviation sector is constantly evolving in europe and worldwide, the primary objectives are always those of efficiency and safety of the service, in a world where the number of air flights is constantly growing. it will be important to understand the role that europe will play at the end of this journey on the single european sky package.
in writing. - the question of aviation safety and the competence of the european aviation safety agency (easa) is very important. this importance derives from the fact that maintaining a high level of civil aviation safety in europe is a common and primary objective. i think it is necessary to support this proposal because it is essential to strengthen the agency's powers and effectiveness. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of passengers is not compromised. however, these objectives should be achieved by means of new powers without entailing an increase in the budget of the agency itself.
in writing. - the single european sky (ses) initiative was launched in 2000 and brought air traffic management and navigation services into the framework of the common transport policy. this is a very important regulation for two reasons: on the one hand, adaptation to the new rules of the single european sky, and on the other hand, governance reform, aimed at implementing the interinstitutional agreement on european agencies signed in july 2012. the main objective of this regulation is to establish and maintain a high and uniform level of civil aviation safety in europe and to establish the governance structure of the european aviation agency.
in writing. - the proposal finally addresses the question of the competence of the european aviation safety agency (easa). the agreement reached by the european commission, the european parliament and the european council seems to be sound and geared to the proper functioning of air navigation and management services. i think that the rapporteur has interpreted the safety issue well, in particular by maintaining high standards of care for the certification of components, aircraft and technical parts, as well as for the training of pilots and flight personnel. they also agree on the need to strengthen the agency's competence, especially in the field of air safety.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the tourism market is constantly evolving, especially the online market, where there are always new ideas and business proposals. many types of holiday are not covered by existing community legislation, which is why the package travel legislation needs to be revised to ensure that all travellers have uniform protection and clear and equal rights in all member states. more guarantees are needed in the conditions offered to consumers, especially when there are extraordinary and unforeseeable circumstances that prevent re-entry. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, consumer protection has always been a priority for the political action of my party, which has always fought to defend the position of the weaker party. that is why i voted - also in disagreement with my group, with alde - on some amendments in favour of the proposal for a directive on package holidays and assisted tourism services, because this will give greater protection to the consumer who will finally have uniform protection and clear and precise rights in all the member states in pursuit of one of the objectives of the european union: the common internal market. it was important to update the directive by extending its scope to online commerce, which has now become the main tool used also for the tourism sector. it is also to be welcomed that the directive was intended to ensure compliance, effectiveness and an adequate degree of protection in the event of the insolvency of operators.
in writing. - the mayer report is balanced and acceptable, and i have therefore decided to support it with my vote.
in writing. - as this is a subject which is very dear to me, i have followed the drafting of this proposal with particular attention and i fully endorse it. the tourism sector, in addition to continuing to increase its turnover, is one of the sectors where change is taking place most rapidly. this, in addition to being an advantage for travellers, who are presented with an increasingly wide and diversified tourist offer, can be a threat to consumer protection guarantees. the proposal seeks to update the rules for the protection of travellers, considering that the rules contained in the previous regulation are no longer sufficient. one of the main issues raised concerns the definition of an autonomous tourist service. the directive, which considers the concept of 'all-inclusive package' to be obsolete, is intended to guarantee travellers who intend to purchase tourist services separately in an autonomous manner. it is also considered one of the fundamental prerogatives for the protection of travellers, that travellers should be aware of the degree of protection offered by each service before proceeding with any form of purchase. however, the protection of travellers must not impose obligations which are too onerous for tour operators, but must be a fair compromise which does not penalise anyone.
in writing. - the revision of directive 90/314/eec on all-inclusive travel is necessary both because of the need to include online trade and to meet the prospect of a large development of tourist flows, in particular the chinese one. the scope of the directive should therefore not be too narrow and too specific, so as to avoid the directive being obsolete at the time of its adoption. it is essential to avoid the development of business models which seek to circumvent the scope of application. the essential aspect of the directive, in addition to the duty of the member states, must therefore be to ensure compliance, effectiveness and an adequate level of protection in the event of insolvency, and to lay down penalties, even of considerable amounts, in the event of breaches of obligations by undertakings. mutual recognition of insolvency protection and administrative cooperation between member states are important. it is also necessary to ensure that the new directive does not overlap with the existing regulations on passenger rights. the basic principle is that rights can be cumulated only if they do not relate to the same facts.
in writing. - the tourism market is constantly evolving, especially the online market, and new business ideas are constantly being developed. i have welcomed this directive because its primary objective is to ensure that the level of protection is respected and effective and increased in all types of travel. it is of particular importance that all the specific details of the journey are included in the pre-contractual information or in the contract itself. in the pre-contractual information, it is important to introduce a clear distinction between 'package travel' and 'linked travel services'. price changes must always be justified in writing and, in the event of insolvency, it would be appropriate to have the utmost protection for the traveller. in the event that the traveller encounters difficulties, even if not attributable to the organiser, the organiser should nevertheless be required to act with the utmost diligence to provide the traveller with adequate assistance and alternative travel services.
in writing. - the directive governing all-inclusive travel packages is now obsolete and largely outdated. the change in consumer habits, the liberalisation of the air transport sector, together with the increasing availability of online offers, have made it necessary to initiate a process of revision of the existing legislation. i agree with mr mayer's proposal to strengthen the rights of those consumers who, through a more active role in planning their holidays, prefer to combine different tourist services independently rather than choosing ready-made packages. the proposal also aims to harmonise legislation in the various member states, to make rules more transparent for operators in the sector and to increase consumer protection irrespective of the way the holiday is booked.
in writing. - the tourism market is constantly evolving, especially online. travellers should enjoy uniform protection and clear and precise rights which should not differ depending on the member state in which they live. i am voting in favour of full harmonization in the interests of european consumers and, for reasons of competition, also of european businesses. in particular, i supported provisions allowing the traveller to terminate a contract for a package in the event of proven extraordinary and unforeseeable circumstances and those aimed at ensuring that certain basic information is provided to travellers also for individual travel services.
in writing. - the revision of directive 90/314/eec to include online commerce in its scope is a necessary step dictated by the evolution of technology and the digital market. i would appreciate a specific clarification of the distinction between pure advertising and real proposals in the digital market, so as not to penalise economic operators and at the same time to protect consumers from overly aggressive marketing strategies. the right of consumers to information and the right of withdrawal are also important: i consider it essential that pre-contractual information or the contract contains information on all relevant contact details, including information on the right of withdrawal, which should be possible at any time, in exchange for appropriate compensation. i think that the measures to support travellers in difficulty (even if not caused by the organiser) and the measures to protect them in the event of insolvency are proportionate.
in writing. - the european commission's proposal for a regulation introduces new provisions at european level for the phasing out of the marketing and use of hfcs, which are widely used in the air conditioning and commercial refrigeration sectors. the agreement reached between the council and the european parliament confirms the objective of a gradual reduction of 79% of hfcs so that the volume of products placed on the european market in 2030 does not exceed 21% of current levels. the proposal initially provided for an ambitious roadmap for certain industrial sectors, thereby risking undermining both the competitiveness of these sectors and that of the industrial chains concerned. after a long negotiation process initiated in the envi parliamentary committee, of which i am a full member, i am pleased that this agreement has been reached, which allows for the alternative technologies available to the various sectors to be taken into account, the economic sustainability of the technologies themselves, and the timing of adaptation to new standards, all the while maintaining the objective of keeping these sectors competitive on the international market.
in writing. - the eickhout report on fluorinated gases and the greenhouse effect is acceptable. i think it is remarkable that the alternative technologies already available to the various sectors and their economic viability have been taken into account, as well as the timing of adaptation to the new standards, with the aim of keeping these sectors on the market. for all these reasons i voted in favour of the text.
in writing. - the european union, following the montreal protocol, set the ambitious but necessary target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 80-95% by 2050 compared to 1990 levels. the progressive reduction of chlorofluorocarbons (cfcs) and hydrochlorofluorocarbons (hcfcs) has been a major step forward in this respect, but environmental legislation must always keep pace with the times and with technological and scientific progress in order to steer human behaviour towards a more sustainable lifestyle. the commission proposal represents a major step towards replacing the currently widely used high global warming potential (hfc) (pfc) (sf6) substances with new, less climate-damaging systems, but it does not take account of some very important factors, which is why i am voting in favour of the amendments tabled by the envi committee. the new proposal takes greater account of the cost-effectiveness of such levies, creates a clearer and more feasible agenda, does not ignore the risks of existing schemes and finally proposes the concept of an emission allowance use tax that compensates for the higher costs of more sustainable alternatives, thus encouraging their development and marketing.
in writing. - the regulation introduces new provisions at european level for the phasing out of the placing on the market and use of hfcs, which are widely used in the air conditioning and commercial refrigeration sectors. the agreement reached confirms the european commission's proposed target of a gradual reduction of 79% of hfcs, so that the volume of products placed on the european market in 2030 does not exceed 21% of current levels. i supported the text of the agreement with the council which allowed for greater realism than some of the rapporteur's requests and took account of the alternative technologies available to the various sectors of their economic viability, as well as the timing of adaptation to the new standards, with the aim of keeping these sectors on the market. in particular, i supported and welcomed the fact that the system of allocation of emission allowances does not provide for the imposition of a tariff and that the prohibitions of use introduced for certain specific equipment and products have been circumscribed. i also think it is right that in the negotiations with the member states the ban on charging equipment before it is placed on the market has been removed and that a system of tracing hfcs placed on the market has been opted for instead.
in writing. - i think that the commission proposal provides good information, particularly on the provisions relating to the limits of hfcs which cannot be placed on the market or the prohibitions on hermetically sealed equipment. i think that some of the measures proposed by the rapporteur on the gradual reduction of production and consumption of hydrofluorocarbons are particularly welcome, as is the intention to increase compliance by producers. last but not least, i believe that the problem of by-products, as highlighted in the report, is a focal point, which, if not fully addressed, risks undermining the european union's efforts to achieve its environmental policy objectives.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is true that freedom of movement is a fundamental freedom and it is right that the member states should do their utmost to remove unnecessary bureaucratic obstacles for those who study and especially for those who work. but it is not acceptable for community citizens to move from one country to another without studying or working, only to burden the host country's government, which may have a more favourable social protection system than the country of origin. how many people move just to get free social assistance and various benefits! this is not fair, especially in a time of crisis, because all these services are very expensive and they are resources that we are taking from citizens, especially the poorest and most vulnerable.
in writing. - i did not intend to support the bauer report because i believe that it aims to facilitate immigration to europe of third country nationals through a series of deliberately hidden references in the folds of the text under vote.
in writing. - i commend the rapporteur for taking a realistic approach to such a sensitive subject, upholding the essential value of free movement, without ever falling into the temptation of the rhetoric of pure principle which often exacerbates open political problems. i was born in a region of emigration in a country that today, with the third largest economy in the eurozone, is once again a region of emigration: i am not unaware, however, that certain difficulties may be a cause for concern and, unfortunately, open to exploitation for reasons of internal policy. so while i am sad to see so many young italians leaving their cities to move elsewhere in europe, i consider this to be a sign of growth for their generation, as finding a qualified job in a big city was for ours. it is still difficult to make it clear that full mobility will be a given in the near future: in the united states, states compete to attract citizens, who bring in income, revenue, production and strengthen communities even in the dialectic at the federal level. the rapporteur supports a reasonable solution based on the removal of obstacles through cooperation between national authorities and at european level. i certainly vote in favour.
in writing. - i agree with all the arguments put forward by the committee on employment and social affairs in that they seek to improve the freedom of movement within the european union for community workers, which, although long recognised as one of the fundamental freedoms of citizens (article 45 tfeu), still has some limits in its application. the possibility of creating genuine flows of workers across the member states must be seen as an opportunity for the different economies and therefore encouraged as much as possible both by projects aimed at making citizens aware of the different labour markets and by guaranteeing those who decide to undertake this work path the same conditions valid for all workers, avoiding any form of national and gender discrimination. the free movement of workers contributes to closing labour market imbalances and to developing a healthy spillover of knowledge and cultures between countries, contributing to the process of european integration. it seems absurd to have regulations where equal treatment of european citizens is required but since integration is a slow and complicated process, this is still considered necessary and it is good that the rules are as clear as possible.
in writing. - the effective exercise of freedom of movement for workers is not yet a reality and many workers are often unaware of their rights in this area. they still face discrimination on the grounds of nationality when moving within the european union. these are some of the reasons why i voted in favour of the report. the free movement of workers needs to be a key element in the development of a genuine labour market in the union. every citizen should have the right to move freely from an area of high unemployment to another with a shortage of labour, in order to work and reside there. for their part, member states should make all necessary information on working conditions available and also establish the modalities under which this information may be made accessible to employers, workers and other interested parties.
in writing. - the free movement of workers was one of the pillars on which the single market and the european union itself were built, and the idea itself would also be acceptable, insofar as it facilitates a citizen who wishes to work in a country other than his own. the point is that this mechanism could have worked in a europe different from the present one, with a few member states and not too dissimilar labour, social and welfare systems. the problems arise from the fact that the european union is made up of too many different economic, social and cultural realities. the great eastward enlargement in 2004 created a situation which is now difficult to manage, with hundreds of thousands of workers from these countries deciding to move elsewhere where conditions were much better for them. but all this has led to a number of problems, which are obvious to all of us: it is not out of mere selfishness, but out of pure realism, that i believe that this rule should be thoroughly revised before it is too late and the situation becomes really unmanageable.
in writing. - article 45 of the treaty guarantees the right of eu citizens to move freely within the union for work purposes, without being discriminated against on grounds of nationality or working conditions. the directive aims to strengthen the implementation of regulation no 492/2011 concerning the rights deriving from the freedom of movement of workers and defines specific areas where discrimination on grounds of nationality is prohibited.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the directive on environmental impact assessment has been in force since 1992 and is a good directive, which has undergone many positive changes, but it is now time to update it again, above all it is important to strengthen the right of citizens to compulsory consultation as a guarantee of participation and transparency, especially when works are carried out which have a strong environmental impact on the territory and on the rights of citizens themselves: the right to health, the right to live in a healthy environment, the right to territorial protection and the protection of soil. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - the zanoni report is balanced and does not present any criticisms, so i intend to support it with my vote.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of the agreement reached on the revision of the environmental impact assessment directive which is being finally adopted by the european parliament today. as in any compromise, the final text contains provisions which could have been more ambitious (including those on projects involving the exploration and extraction of unconventional gas), but overall i think the outcome of this legislative review is positive. the new proposal will improve the effectiveness of the existing legislation and simplify many provisions by reducing red tape. the text also introduces stricter clauses on the assessment of projects with significant environmental impacts. i am particularly concerned about the provision for greater coordination and the establishment of common procedures for projects requiring an impact assessment also on the basis of other directives such as the habitats directive, the birds directive, the water framework directive and the industrial emissions directive. greater coordination which can make the global and preventive assessment of projects with a significant impact on nature and biodiversity more effective. the rules on access to information and public participation in decision-making are also positive.
in writing. - the environmental impact assessment (eia) directive sets out and harmonises at european level the conditions for the design and construction of industrial plants and infrastructure in various sectors in compliance with strict environmental criteria. it therefore affects a wide range of industrial sectors (energy, transport, construction, waste disposal, agriculture). i supported the final agreement with the council, reached after particularly difficult negotiations, which managed to strike a balance between the needs of the various member states and the objective of simplifying and improving the quality of the legislation in force. i voted in favour of the final text which resolves some of the criticisms raised by italian companies concerning the need for greater clarity in the interpretation of the clauses and a general reduction in bureaucratic and administrative burdens in order to streamline and shorten the time taken for procedures. i appreciated the choice to limit the scope of application in order to avoid overlaps with existing legislation, clear provisions on deadlines and timing at different stages of the procedure, the elimination of the requirement for accredited experts, the provision for coordinated and common procedures (one stop shop), the non-retroactive application of the new rules on ongoing procedures.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on statistics on external trade with third countries because i welcome the amendments tabled by the rapporteur to amend the commission proposal, given that the commission's objective is to bring regulation (ec) no 471/2009 into line with the system of implementing and delegated acts introduced by the treaty of lisbon. in order to ensure greater legal certainty and transparency of this legislation, the rapporteur proposes to transform those implementing acts concerning measures on codes to be used for statistical data and on the link between import and export data and business data into delegated acts. in my view, individual rules should always be adopted by means of delegated acts in order to respect parliament's legislative competence: if it were to accept implementing acts of general application, the commission would have the power to lay down rules which, although introduced under the control of the member states, do not provide for any role for parliament. it is clear from this that the aim is to limit the commission's scope for action by allowing parliament to monitor and supervise the decisions taken by the commission.
in writing. - the moreira report on statistics of external trade with third countries (delegated and implementing acts) is a mere adaptation of the legislation on delegated acts to be conferred on the european commission, it is not critical, and i therefore intend to support it with my vote.
in writing. - no, i'm very pleased with the report. the subject is rather technical, and i do not see why parliament should go into these details, which the european commission can decide. we are talking about what legal basis to adopt in order to be able to change the statistical classifications for foreign trade and i think that parliament should be devoting itself to higher, more political tasks, instead of these details which should be worked out by the technicians, with the support of those who use these standards on a daily basis. moreover, when politics changes statistical classifications, there is always the risk that it does so to embellish the results. i therefore voted in favour of the commission's proposal, against the rapporteur's recommendations.
in writing. - in its proposal, the commission proposes to use delegated acts in a number of cases, almost all of which have been covered by the regulatory procedure with scrutiny in the past, while implementing acts are proposed for measures relating to codes to be used for statistical data and measures relating to the link between import and export data and business data. i share the rapporteur's view that parliament should be more demanding in the separation of delegated and implementing acts, the real difference being in the setting of rules or measures for specific and concrete situations. i also agree with the reduction of the commission's powers to five years, so as to ensure greater parliamentary control.
in writing. - mr president, i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation by my colleague mr prodi because i believe that the copernicus programme is of crucial importance for the european union, since its main objective is to provide information and data from space observations which contribute to the protection of the environment by controlling climate change, to civil protection, to security and also to economic growth. the space sector provides a significant number of jobs and at the same time invests in innovation and research. this is about eur 4 million, although the starting budget has unfortunately been reduced by 35%.
in writing. - copernicus is the european infrastructure for global earth observation. with the commission's proposal we are starting the operational phase of the satellite network. improving this system should bring a number of benefits to european citizens, notably through increased monitoring of environmental and climate change issues. further work will be needed on certain issues, including governance and data policy, in order to ensure optimal coordination between member states and to ensure the smooth management of copernicus. i welcome the rapporteur's amendments aimed at finding an organisational, management and financial model which represents a viable alternative to the one adopted so far: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the creation of a european space agency, the establishment of a european space agency and the establishment of a european space agency. i think it is right to approve the proposed amendments because they represent the european parliament's desire to promote greater european convergence, transparency and democratic accountability in relation to the programme. in this regard, it is important to involve all public and private sector stakeholders, taking into account their strategic, economic and industrial needs.
in writing. - i share the views expressed in the prodi report analysing the copernicus programme, and since it does not present any particular criticisms, i have voted in favour of it.
in writing. - the copernicus programme (the new name for gmes) is the european system for global earth observation. i supported the proposal because it marks the beginning of the operational phase of the satellite network. the main objective is to bring benefits to european citizens in a number of areas, in particular in the context of action for the environment and against climate change, while maintaining the civil dimension of the programme.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i too see the copernicus project as a great opportunity for europe. the work done by esa in recent years is in plain view and a source of pride for all member states. the development of this programme and others before it, such as galileo, has brought together the best european minds in a single project and stimulated the creation of new technologies that can one day be used in everyday life, as well as providing employment for thousands of people. no less important is the objective of these efforts, for the study of the earth can be fundamental to understanding our present and future concerns and thus can help us to act in time. i welcome the proposal to make the data from these studies mostly free and easily accessible to all interested parties as a community-funded project for the community. funding for scientific progress is a major investment for the union and as such can represent a large expenditure on the budget, but a proper use of these resources will, in my view, ensure benefits that are more than proportionate.
in writing. - the copernicus programme is an important tool for the collection of environmental standards, useful both in the private and public sectors. the aim is to provide a platform for environmental legislation in the states. i think it can be a very useful instrument, and i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. - the result of the vote here in strasbourg does not surprise me, because the text was also adopted by a large majority in the committee on industry and energy (50 votes in favour, 1 against and 2 abstentions). the regulation voted today in strasbourg marks the start of the operational phase of the satellite network which will bring direct benefits to the citizens of europe. the approval of the new financial framework 2014-2020 will enable copernicus to provide a range of services such as land, sea, atmosphere and climate monitoring in support of european action (policies) for the environment and climate change. the operation of satellites is essential, for example, to prevent new tragedies like the one in lampedusa, to help in civil protection operations after an earthquake or to facilitate the control of the european union's borders. i hope that some governance issues will be clarified in the near future, such as the roles and responsibilities of the various actors involved, and that a clear data policy will be defined.
in writing. - through copernicus, europe will have its own evaluation capacity, enabling it to make informed and timely policy choices in a number of policy areas. i welcome the report and a number of amendments which aim to align the document with the existing regulations and to strengthen the concepts of transparency, democratic accountability and inclusiveness of the system, the latter with particular regard to local authorities and smes. copernicus will be able to stimulate european industry, services to citizens, environmental monitoring and the fight against climate change, as well as ensuring greater security for all european citizens.
in writing. - it can be said that mr prodi's report marks the beginning of the operational phase of the satellite network in europe. the main objective is to bring benefits to european citizens in various fields, in particular in the context of action for the environment and against climate change, while maintaining the civilian dimension of the programme; however, in order to ensure effective progress, further clarification will be needed on more controversial issues such as governance.
in writing. - the mission of the global navigation satellite system (gnss) agency is of fundamental importance to ensure the security accreditation of the systems and the operation of the galileo security centre, as well as to contribute to the preparation of the commercialization of the systems for their proper operation, uninterrupted provision of services and a high degree of market penetration. i support the commission's proposal to amend the gnss agency's regulations, but i also support the need to introduce a mechanism to avoid conflicts of interest between the management board and the executive director and to provide for mechanisms to involve the european parliament more closely in the work of the agency.
in writing. - the sartori report analysing the changes to be made to the internal organisation of the gnss agency (global civil satellite navigation system) is acceptable and balanced. i believe that the amendments to the current regulation will ensure the independence of the security accreditation activities in the european gnss systems from the other activities carried out by the agency, which is why i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. - i supported the proposal because it provides that the prague agency will be responsible for the management of extremely important tasks relating to the implementation of the european satellite navigation system. the aim of this report is to establish a clear division of internal tasks, with a clear identification of the responsibilities of each body. the objective of the establishment of an ad hoc agency is to define the governance framework for the galileo and egnos satellite navigation programmes for the period 2014-2020. it provides that most of the tasks related to the operation of the two systems are to be entrusted to the european gnss agency. satellite radio navigation systems are sensitive infrastructures, and safety requirements therefore play a crucial role in the design, construction and operation of the infrastructures. moreover, given the spread of satellite radio navigation in various sectors of activity, a disruption in the provision of services can cause considerable damage to contemporary societies. it is vital that the security of the whole of the european union is guaranteed at a strategic level, and the gnss agency has this objective.
in writing. - the joint debate on space has shown that a very valuable and important project such as the gnss, which is intended to assert a certain independence of europe from the technological point of view of geolocation, which is playing an increasingly important role in many sectors, still has to overcome certain limits both from the economic and from the organizational point of view. i voted in favour of this proposal from the committee on industry, research and energy, which seeks to ensure a more efficient organisation within this young agency in which the european union has placed great confidence. in particular, the cut in funding of 2% compared with the amount originally agreed by the commission, together with the cessation of funding for secondary schools which will necessarily be a burden on the agency's budgets, are very worrying for the undersigned. i therefore agree with the rapporteur that the amendments to the text she is presenting in this report are at least necessary to ensure the proper functioning of the agency, which can do a great deal for the future of europe.
in writing. - i support this report because it states that the eastern partnership summit in vilnius demonstrated the need to review the eastern partnership (eap) project. i believe that the major flaw of our eastern policy is its anti-russian, cold war profile. this policy should be redesigned with a view to including russia in its scope and not by antagonising it. also, the eap countries must be free and sovereign so as to exercise fully their right to determine their future without being subjected to undue external pressure.
in writing. - i do not agree with the proposals supported by the kowal report, and therefore i did not intend to support it with my vote.
in writing. - i welcome the report by mr kowal on the priorities which the union must give to relations with the eastern partnership countries in the context of the european neighbourhood policy in this period of turbulence caused by the ukrainian crisis. in a difficult time, the european union must do everything possible to ensure that these countries are not left alone and to help to strengthen further the links which already exist. the basic values of the eastern partnership are fundamental to me and are at the heart of european foreign policy: we cannot tolerate disregard for international law, good governance and the market economy, as well as the protection of human rights. the work done in the past, but especially the work to be done in the future, will represent a decisive challenge to the ability of the union as a whole to deal with its neighbours and to deal with international crises. i therefore welcome the rapporteur's call for concrete measures, such as economic assistance, trade facilitation, projects to strengthen energy security and economic modernisation, to support the partner countries in their european aspirations, and at the same time to seek a common strategy towards russia.
in writing. - i appreciate that the rapporteur has wanted to create an ambitious proposal, especially at a time like this which is important for relations with the eastern partnership countries. i share the focus on young people and young leaders, who should acquire a european union-oriented mindset in order to reap the full benefits of the european union. of course, the key issue is still energy, linked to the different sources of energy that cross the partner countries to bring resources to the european countries. the political connotation of the document is particularly important, as it underlines the commitment of both sides to build relations which are not limited to mere short-term economic interests but a solid, lasting and mutually beneficial political bond.
in writing. - spying, mass surveillance and interception of communications in the eu institutions are unacceptable violations of citizens' fundamental right to privacy and data protection. with the approval of the final report of investigations into the activities of the nsa spy we send a strong signal: the protection and safety of european citizens is our priority.
in writing. - i am in favour of this report because it acknowledges that the revelations concerning the us nsa surveillance programme since june 2013 have profoundly shaken the trust between the two transatlantic partners and the trust between citizens and their governments. these revelations also undermined the confidence of members of the public in the functioning of democratic institutions on both sides of the atlantic. with this text we strongly condemn the vast and systemic blanket collection of the personal data of random people, often including intimate personal information. it is important to make it clear that the systems for indiscriminate mass surveillance by intelligence services constitute a serious interference with the fundamental rights of citizens. privacy is not a right that is a luxury, but is the foundation stone of a free and democratic society. in addition mass surveillance has potentially severe effects on freedom of the press, thought and speech and on freedom of assembly.
in writing. - i do not share the views expressed in the moraes report. as the eu has no competence in matters of national security, as the commission itself has repeatedly pointed out, and as the actions proposed in this text do not seem to be sufficiently far-reaching to bring about any real change in the situation, i did not intend to vote in favour.
in writing. - i am very pleased that ideological prejudices have been overcome and that the major political groups have been able to reach agreement on this report. let me be clear: the operating procedures of the united states national security agency and other intelligence agencies in other countries of the world have nothing to do with the rules laid down in the regulation and directive on the protection of personal data voted by this parliament. however, it cannot be denied that these revelations have polluted the debate, sharpening the ideological opposition. the harmony found in this dossier is all the more surprising, although in reality it is normal in this case to have a common front: when we talk about suspending the safe harbour agreement, passenger names records, the transatlantic trade and investment partnership and the security of european networks, jobs, business orders, people's safety are at stake and we cannot dwell on ideological details but must adopt a pragmatic approach. the socialist group, in this case, agreed with the epp on most of the amendments and i voted in favour, based on these compromises.
in writing. - i am voting against the moraes report because the agreements which the report proposes to suspend, including the eu-us agreement on the transfer of passengers' personal data, are fundamental and their suspension would seriously undermine the ability of european governments to defend their security. we must increase controls, not reduce them! the causes of the plane crash that killed more than 230 people in malaysia have yet to be determined, but the fact that four passengers boarded with stolen passports and used false identities suggests an act of terrorism. the passports used were stolen two years ago in thailand. how did they board an international flight without anyone noticing that those passports were no longer valid? this is proof that the international intelligence network is not working. among the dead passengers on the malaysia airlines flight are people of all nationalities, including four american citizens and, for a few hours, we thought an italian had also died. with tens of thousands of aircraft taking to the skies every day, the safety of passengers must be our primary concern.
in writing. - following the edward snowden revelations and the datagate scandal, the political debate in europe about surveillance systems for national security and their intrusion into citizens' privacy and, more generally, the possible violation of the pillars of modern western democracy. while terrorist threats and general strategic interests have led to a certain degree of intrusiveness, the risk of an orwellian system that violates fundamental rights and does not effectively and consistently control the means of surveillance is frightening european citizens. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of personal data in the context of the transposition of the directive into national law.
in writing. - i did not intend to support the göncz report on the eu-azerbaijan agreement on the readmission of persons residing illegally, i believe that the monitoring of legal procedures by the union, as proposed, would violate the principle of subsidiarity and the competences of the eu.
in writing. - i would like to express my appreciation for this initiative by the european parliament to extend the european judicial review framework, which, given its structure, may not produce particularly significant results. the fact that the evaluation does not cover the criminal sector or all the 'horizontal' issues relating to justice, of which the one concerning the careers of judges is particularly important, means that there is a clear lack of information which could also have a negative impact on the european union's ability to attract foreign investors, especially if it is considered that, in relation to criminal disputes, there could be forms of political interference that undermine the independence of the judicial system. for these and other reasons, i therefore voted in favour of mrs göncz's report, which i consider to be an important contribution to the development of eu legislation, including in criminal matters, and to the creation of a single criminal area based on the eu's fundamental values and on uniform and verifiable rules, criteria and standards throughout europe.
in writing. - i believe that in the field of criminal justice, evaluation strengthens mutual trust and that mutual trust is a fundamental element for the effective implementation of mutual recognition instruments, just as evaluation is one of the main instruments for integration in the area of freedom, security and justice in the stockholm programme. in this respect, i welcome the commission's justice scoreboard, but at the same time i do not think it is a good thing that it focuses exclusively on civil, commercial and administrative justice. i appreciate the rapporteur's request to extend the scope of the evaluation framework to make it a comprehensive and stand-alone instrument which assesses all areas of justice. i also believe, as the rapporteur has said, that the european parliament should be more closely involved in the evaluation process and that the results should be regularly presented to those responsible in this institution. i believe that parliament's repeated requests for respect for the rule of law and fundamental rights must be heeded and met by the creation of an effective mechanism to assess the respect in the member states for the union's fundamental values and a mechanism for crisis situations with appropriate means of intervention.
in writing. - the establishment of a criminal justice evaluation framework will make an essential contribution to the development of an overview, at the level of judges and prosecutors, of eu criminal law, strengthening cooperation and mutual trust. a system of assessment of the effective application of community law in the criminal justice systems of the member states is essential to ensure that the fundamental rights of all european citizens are constantly safeguarded and protected by detecting and stopping any cases of maladministration. the european parliament and the national parliaments, the highest democratic expression of the european institutional apparatus and of the member states, should also have the opportunity to participate in this process.
in writing. - mr president, there are about 40.5 million connected tv sets in europe and within a few years they could be in most people's homes. this rapid development is increasingly closing the gap between consumers, broadcasters and the internet and requires reflection at european level. it is appropriate to analyse the multiple consequences of this convergence by measuring its impact in terms of consumer protection (in particular those who need to be protected, such as minors and young people in general), data protection and cultural diversity. it is necessary to develop a horizontal regulatory framework at european level and to emphasise that convergence also represents an opportunity for the development of new business models, capable of transforming this process into economic growth and entrepreneurial innovation.
in writing. - this report aims to highlight the importance of converging member states at the level of the audiovisual market in the face of the evolution of the audiovisual media landscape across the eu. in the future, and in line with the green paper on the convergence of the audiovisual world, there will be an increasing need to reflect on the infrastructure, frequency and funding models of audiovisual content in order to adapt the eu audiovisual media services directive to new developments and to foster vertical and horizontal integration in the ict and media sectors. in the light of some common issues, including consumer protection, youth protection and data protection, there is a growing need to merge audiovisual media services from the various member states as assets of cultural and economic interest. convergence in this area therefore represents a major challenge for the future, as it aims not only to bring individual national markets closer together but also to improve access to and availability of audiovisual resources and content to the public. finally, the aim is also to ensure a diversified supply alongside the various existing financing models.
in writing. - the verheyen report is acceptable and does not present any particular criticisms, and for these reasons i have voted in favour of it.
in writing. - i agree with the ideas expressed in this report, the audiovisual world is very important for culture in our day for good and for bad, the right use coupled with the possibility of free access to anyone represents a great potential for the present and the future. i think that the enormous changes that have taken place in recent years have had a great impact on this sector and i am glad that the commission has decided to extend the concept of the audiovisual world from the traditional one to a much wider one that includes the internet, smartphones and everything that technology has put at the service of man in this field. i subscribe to the principles that high-speed access should be guaranteed everywhere, even in rural areas, that the network should make the same material available to all european users regardless of the country they are in, that the network should be neutral, free of particular censorship, but at the same time that it should ensure greater legal protection for copyrighted material. a clear plan could also ensure that companies invest more in this sector, with the resulting positive effects for the whole community, which is why i voted in favour.
in writing. - the process of merging different audiovisual media services, both linear and non-linear, thanks to technological progress and the spread of portable and fixed devices connected to the internet, is raising some problems in terms of consumer protection, the protection of vulnerable groups (minors in particular) and the guarantee of the diversity of the content offered. i support the rapporteur's position, who has clearly identified the main problems with this process of media convergence, highlighting the main causes and possible negative effects on different groups of consumers, but also on service providers, who, of course, in addition to the great opportunities to address a specific audience, may run the risk of a difference in the treatment of their products by the gatekeepers.
in writing. - i do not agree with the text analysing the 2013 report on european citizenship, i think it is unbalanced with contradictory passages, for these reasons i did not intend to vote in favour of it.
in writing. - i welcomed this text because it contains important indications on the objectives achieved by the european union to date, together with those on which there is still a great need to work. the concept of citizenship is fundamental to the existence of this united europe, and the peti committee plays a fundamental role in this respect, but it is not enough to do this alone. we must break down all the barriers that still exist in the disparity of treatment between the various european states, starting with the right to vote, in order to ensure better representation that coincides with a sense of identity. the economic and social crisis that has struck europe in recent years has also contributed to the fact that citizens feel increasingly alienated and abandoned by the european institutions, and in some cases even identify the cause of all the ills. this feeling hurts those who, like me, believe that europe should not be a problem but a solution.
in writing. - the committee on petitions is the ultimate thermometer of the actual degree of enjoyment of the rights attaching to european citizenship. many petitions have highlighted citizens' concerns and the practical and legal obstacles that persist in the application of the rights enshrined in the lisbon treaties. my vote in favour of mr salavrakos' report, which i thank as chairman of the committee on petitions for the excellent work it has done, is a confirmation of my full agreement with the need to promote greater awareness of citizenship rights with the decisive contribution of the member states in ensuring that they are properly applied. i believe that the widespread distrust of the european institutions by the public must also be countered by means of instruments and actions which promote participation in democratic processes.
in writing. - i welcome the report, as it stresses that it is a right for all european citizens to be able to make informed decisions on the exercise of their treaty rights and to have access to the necessary information, both on abstract rights and on practical information on economic, social, administrative, legal and cultural matters. i also welcome the recognition of the member states as key actors in the proper implementation of european legislation in order to guarantee the rights deriving from citizenship of the european union, while i join the chorus of those who deplore the excessive opt-out clauses in some member states, as they undermine the rights of equality between all european citizens.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the strengthening of the protection of the union's financial interests, the increase in the confidence of businesses and citizens in the institutions, is certainly also linked to the effectiveness of the investigations and prosecutions of crimes which harm the union's financial interests. the creation of a european public prosecutor's office to investigate and prosecute the perpetrators of offences against the financial interests of the european union is a step forward in the cooperation of the member states in the field of criminal justice. in particular, i hope that the commission, taking into account the guidelines set out in this report, will review the methods and judicial remedies for determining the jurisdiction for investigative measures, the admissibility of evidence and the closure of investigations.
in writing. - i strongly support this report because i believe that the establishment of a european public prosecutor’s office (eppo) constitutes fundamental progress in the judicial cooperation between member states in criminal matters. this report stresses that the eppo should have a versatile structure and it should guarantee high standards of independence, balancing the requirement for swift decisions with careful investigations and knowledge of the national systems in which crimes are committed. in particular, it would be really important to review the judicial remedies for the determination of the competent court and for criminal activities which fall within the competence of the eppo.
in writing. - i do not agree with the proposals in the iacolino report, and therefore i did not intend to vote in favour of it.
in writing. - i voted against the establishment of the european public prosecutor's office because it implies a further loss of sovereignty for national parliaments, investing the european public prosecutor's office with powers which are too broad, which go beyond the prerogatives of the member states and interfere in a matter of their competence, criminal law. it is also hard to see why we should not extend the powers and duties of an existing institution dealing with fraud to the detriment of the eu, namely olaf, rather than create a new, yet another expensive version of euroland.
in writing. - i agree with the rapporteur and the work he has presented on the 'concrete need of citizens to see the financial interests of the european union protected' and in this respect the creation of a european public prosecutor's office can be an additional guarantee offered to citizens and the institutions representing them. the creation of a european public prosecutor's office in continuous cooperation with eurojust, olaf and europol will help to create a well-organised system for combating a particular category of crime which is able to cause millions of euros in damage to the union's coffers every year and is difficult to prosecute efficiently by national and european authorities. this new body must be able to ensure efficiency and timeliness in its procedures, so its autonomous operation may involve cooperation with national prosecutors but it can also take initiatives independently. with an ever-larger europe in which ever-greater interests are at play, i therefore welcome the desire to create a new body which will increasingly guarantee its proper functioning in safeguarding and protecting the rights of all.
in writing. - the creation of a european public prosecutor's office is a step forward in the process of cooperation between member states in the field of criminal justice. the european parliament is called upon to express its opinion on a legislative proposal which, in a phase of consolidation of public accounts, interprets the concrete need of the citizens to see the financial interests of the european union protected. moreover, the 500 million euros that are taken from welfare and community services every year deserve a european response. in addition, in the field of procedural guarantees, a number of principles and rights are invoked which strengthen the protection of suspects without thereby weakening the action of ascertaining and punishing offences. finally, it suggests an agile and lean structure, guaranteeing high standards of independence, experience and professionalism, reconciling the need for rapid decisions with the accuracy of investigations and knowledge of the national realities in which the crimes are committed.
in writing. - i see the creation of a european public prosecutor as a fundamental step towards closer and more fluid cooperation between member states in the field of criminal justice, in order to ensure that all citizens of the union really enjoy the same rights before the courts. it also represents the citizens' demand that the financial interests of the union be protected, especially in a period of economic crisis and public recovery such as that which some member states have experienced or are still experiencing. i share the rapporteur's view that close coordination with eurojust, olaf and europol is important in order to create a comprehensive and effective criminal prosecution system, with a view to full judicial cooperation in criminal matters. in conclusion, i also share the need and the commitment to create a flexible and lean structure, which guarantees proper functioning and the right independence that such a body has a duty to maintain.
in writing. - the creation of a european public prosecutor's office is a step forward in the process of cooperation between member states in the field of criminal justice. for these reasons, even in a period of consolidation of public accounts, it is important to respond to the concrete need of citizens to see the financial interests of the european union protected.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, turkey is not europe, and therefore cannot become the 29th member of the european union. we are always talking about efforts made, progress made, but there is no truly transparent and accountable administration in turkey, there is too much corruption, there is no guarantee of impartiality and independence of the judicial system, above all human rights are trampled upon, women's rights, the rights of minors who are often exploited, minors who work. i would also like to remind you that just a few days ago a young man, in his early 20s, was killed by a tear gas canister while he was demonstrating, in memory of another young man who was killed in june during a demonstration. turkey is still militarily occupying ... (the president cut the speaker off)
in writing. - i support this resolution because i agree that turkey is a strategic partner for the eu and an important regional player for its wider neighbourhood. i am in favour of full eu membership for turkey. for these reasons i am deeply concerned at the recent developments in turkey with regard to allegations of high-level corruption. with this text we strongly regret the removal of the prosecutors and police officers in charge of the original investigations, as this goes against the fundamental principle of an independent judiciary and deeply affects the prospects for credible investigations. i consider regrettable the serious breakdown of trust between the government, the judiciary, the police and the media. therefore, it is fundamental to urge turkeyʼs government to show full commitment to democratic principles and to refrain from any further interference in the investigation and prosecution of corruption.
in writing. - i do not agree with the resolution analysing turkey's progress in 2013. despite economic data showing this country growing, there are continuing signs of closure with respect to human rights and fundamental freedoms which underlie the very essence of the european union; i also believe that turkey must start by respecting all the eu member states and that this must begin by stopping all aggression against cyprus. for the reasons stated above, i have decided to vote against this text.
in writing. - once again the eu has dropped its trousers in the face of turkey's demands: the eu has also agreed to conclude the readmission agreement in exchange for visa liberalisation for turkish citizens in the eu. but not only: turkey does not now intend to sign the readmission agreement until visa facilitation for turkish citizens becomes a reality. the commission is also proposing to extend the visa-free regime to turkey, which is an important and dangerous step towards turkey's accession to the european union. the agreement will also allow turkey to benefit from other substantial financial support from europe to set up a border police force and equip itself with border control equipment. these capabilities will help turkey to strengthen its borders with fragile neighbouring countries such as syria, iran and iraq. but can the eu explain, once and for all, the real reasons for this insistence on turkey joining the eu when, even in close study, both europeans and turks claim to be comfortable in their own homes?
in writing. - i consider the motion for a resolution tabled by mrs oomen-ruijten very positive because it is well argued and varies in the topics it deals with. i believe that the relationship with turkey is of fundamental strategic importance for the union's influence in the mediterranean. turkey is the eu's sixth largest trading partner, while eu foreign direct investment in ankara accounts for 71% of turkey's total. i therefore welcome the rapporteur's request to intensify relations and establish close cooperation in the energy sector. turkey can play a key role in diversifying energy resources and transit routes for oil, gas and electricity supplies from neighbouring countries to the eu. the european union and turkey have reached a readmission agreement and the start of the visa liberalisation dialogue, which can only give hope for the future of relations, but at the same time certain elements rightly pointed out by the rapporteur are slowing down the process of rapprochement between the eu and the kemalist country. i am voting in favour because i believe that parliament has a good role to play in encouraging turkey not to forget reforms, respect for justice and respect for the turkish people.
in writing. - i wonder what progress turkey has made in recent years in preparing for possible membership of the european union. the european union has made considerable progress in the economic field, thanks to the large amounts of eu and eib financing, as i said yesterday. nothing has been done to guarantee even the minimum rights demands to be respected: the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european union's policy on the environment, which aims to promote the use of renewable energy sources and to promote the use of renewable energy sources in the union. i think we can stop here with any comment, because it seems really absurd that europe continues to be made fun of by our neighbours, who are only clearly exploiting us, and with our convinced support. i have always maintained that turkey is not a european country, either geographically, historically, culturally or religiously, and that its possible accession to the union is therefore catastrophic and unthinkable. i wonder how many more slaps the eu has to take from turkey before it can react appropriately.
in writing. - i do not share the views expressed in the report analysing the european arctic strategy, and therefore i voted against.
in writing. - europe has always been one of the most environmentally conscious of the institutions of government. the european arctic strategy is just one of many environmental protection issues the eu is fighting for. the arctic is an extremely valuable resource which, because of its many peculiarities, must be studied but above all protected. with the growing interest of several european and non-european countries (it is estimated that about one fifth of the world's undiscovered hydrocarbon resources are in the arctic region), it is increasingly important that europe, as a participant in the arctic council, make its voice heard in order to protect this unique resource in the world. the risks of human intervention in such a particular environment are so great that a strategy must be implemented to minimise the possible negative consequences of human error (for example, the 2010 incident in the gulf of mexico). i therefore vote in favour of this strategy, which was drafted by several hands in the european parliament to allow the arctic to be explored and partly exploited, but not in an intensive and destructive way.
the agenda includes a joint debate on the report by othmar karas and liem hoang ngoc, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the inquiry into the role and activity of the troika in relation to the euro area countries covered by a programme (2013/2277 ((ini)) (a7-0149/2014) and the report by alejandro cercas, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the employment and social aspects of the role and activities of the troika (ecb, commission and imf) in relation to the euro area countries covered by a programme (2013/2007 ((ini)) (a7-0135/2014).
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, over the last four years the commission, the european central bank, the international monetary fund and the infamous troika have carried out a real social butchery, violating laws and treaties and ruining whole peoples. in the face of 27 million unemployed, in the face of our businesses in crisis, in the face of the tragedy of so many entrepreneurs who have committed suicide because of the crisis, europe closes its eyes and blindly responds to the dictates of berlin and uses the troika as an operational arm. the eu has shifted all the blame for the failure of the economic policies of this europe onto countries like greece, ireland, portugal and cyprus and to bring them to their knees has unleashed the troika which has imposed insane austerity measures culminating in cyprus with the forced withdrawal of money from the current accounts of the citizens. in italy, the monti and letta governments, friends of the troika and above all of merkel, but enemies of the italians, have done the rest in order to respect the damned european constraints. what's the result? in italy, unemployment continues to rise, taxes continue to rise and public debt continues to rise. is that what we want, colleagues? is this the europe you want? commissioners rehn and andor, is this the europe you want? i'm not going! i don't want this europe! the citizens should be told clearly that the euro system has failed and the treaties must be rewritten. time is running out, europe has reached its end, and in may the citizens will be democratically writing the future of the new europe, the new europe of the peoples. (the speaker agrees to answer a question with a blue card (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a blue-card question. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. however, it must be acknowledged that with the euro unemployment in italy has increased: increased from 8.5% to 12.5%. here 's the fact: the restrictions imposed by europe have increased the number of companies in crisis, the number of poor people has increased, 30% of italians are at risk of poverty. we must take this situation into account, otherwise the situation can only get worse.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the action of the troika has represented the lowest point in the history of the european union. we have had ghostly experts who have decided measures at their whim by striking and humiliating entire peoples. we have heard of miraculous cures for the crisis, of the tools needed to facilitate recovery, of optimistic forecasts which were then often revised and corrected. the problem of these countries was said to be huge public debt, but it has been amply demonstrated that much of the difficulty was due to private debt, which was facilitated by a complacent banking system. the same banking system that was the reason why we had to intervene so massively, because otherwise the financial giants of half of europe would have been dramatically affected. to save these financial giants, the banks and the failure of the euro, you have not been ashamed to steal money from people's bank accounts, to confiscate property and to impoverish states! and you have put troika children at the head of the governments of these states to facilitate your plan which i consider to be criminal and undemocratic.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i think that the troika incident can also be interpreted as yet another proof of the weakness of politics, which renounces its primary role and delegates its tasks and functions to the technical sphere. as the co-rapporteur mr othmar karas has pointed out, the troika is essentially an intergovernmental instrument, which was however outside the rules of european union law at the time of its establishment. in practice, those with political responsibility for the decisions - the national governments in the eurogroup - gave the european commission the task of negotiating the details for granting assistance to countries in crisis. i ask commissioners rehn and andor how they felt about being relegated to the role of technical executors of the will of the eurogroup, when the commission should have been carrying out a political task: work in collaboration with national and local governments to adapt recovery programmes to the situation of the countries, to take due and appropriate account of social and environmental indicators, to consider that adjustment programmes must be carried out with the euro area economy as a whole and not as an aggregate of individual economies separated from each other. i believe - as commissioner rehn has done - that there must be more solidarity in exchange for more responsibility, but then we must not hide behind the technique, relegating the community institutions to a subordinate role, because that is the prerequisite for giving europe less democratic legitimacy, exactly the opposite of what we need.
mr president, i believe the discussion today is an opportunity to call on the un human rights council to follow up the implementation of the un secretary-general’s recommendations on the protection of human rights in western sahara. morocco, as a new member of unhrc, should acknowledge the right of the sahrawi people to self-determination in accordance with the relevant un resolutions and should put an end to the ongoing violation of human rights of the sahrawi people. also, i believe that morocco should urgently release all sahrawi political prisoners. for these reasons, i would like to ask all colleagues to vote in favour of all the amendments on western sahara proposed by the political groups. we cannot turn a blind eye to this unlawful occupation, and we cannot ignore the fact that one of our neighbouring countries is perpetrating the last case of colonial oppression in africa.
the rapporteur. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i should like to thank my colleagues, the shadow rapporteurs and their staff, who have certainly put in a great deal of effort to complete this programme, this very difficult and complicated project. it was a job that lasted almost a year and a half, it was a very difficult job and i thank, amongst others, the legal service, which was of fundamental importance, and the whole libe secretariat, particularly patricia, who has really given us an incredible hand in the last few months, because of course, although my report was on general projects, it was obviously not easy to reach an agreement. i was very pleased to see that there was a great deal of agreement between almost all the political groups, that a compromise was sought which was more or less acceptable to all, and i must say that what we have achieved is certainly the best that could be achieved. the cooperation with the commission and the council, with the successive council presidencies, has also been excellent and their availability has been great. it is clear that we are dealing with a very challenging and very difficult subject, because the asylum, immigration and integration fund is clearly one of the most pressing problems, especially in europe today. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is certainly important that this report also speaks of the solidarity that must exist between the various european countries, because of course there are countries, especially those in the mediterranean, which have often and willingly faced the problem alone, often and willingly as regards the waves of immigration and, unfortunately, there have also been numerous tragedies at sea. it is clear that this solidarity must be mentioned often because it is one of the key points to show that europe can really make a difference in this respect. it is important not to forget that often and willingly behind immigration, especially illegal immigration, there is also a real trafficking of human beings, with billions of euros that unfortunately some people - who are obviously without scruples - try, use, exploit: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is also clear that migration must of course be supported by seeing when it is compatible, because there are times, especially in this economic situation, when it is clear that it is difficult to integrate people because to integrate people they definitely need to work and also to be able to have a house to live in. but it is clear that in a time of severe economic crisis these become very difficult things to implement. i would like to say that the commission is very much aware of the fact that the european parliament has been involved in the negotiations on the accession of the new member states to the european union, and that it has been able to take part in the negotiations on the accession of the new member states to the european union. i thank once again all the members of the libe committee for their support and for the help they have given me, especially the shadow rapporteurs, and i look forward to this debate and to hearing what comments will be made by my colleagues.
the rapporteur. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mrs malmström, finally in the house the four regulations on the resources devoted to internal affairs for the period 2014-2020. this is a great achievement, achieved through an extraordinary partnership with the lithuanian presidency and the commission, with whom we have worked intensively and fruitfully. if on the one hand the simplification proposed by the commission from 6 to 2 specific funds for the next programming period is a step in the right direction towards easier access to resources by the member states, on the other hand the 16% reduction in resources has certainly reduced the strong need to strengthen the area of freedom, justice and security, which we would have liked to consolidate further also through these legislative initiatives. the activities carried out by the commission and the council, together with the tireless work of the shadows, the secretariat of the libe committee - to which i am grateful - have made it possible to strengthen controls on legal migration, police cooperation, because of the fundamental role that these activities play in legal migration, and the requirements related to the essential instruments for the growth of the welfare state and the economy. the results achieved by the other regulations of the other rapporteurs, with which we have constructively compared, must also be noted positively: the commission has also adopted a proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use (eahp). it is also useful to stress and recall the reference to article 80, to the solidarity which we would like to see drastically achieved when we talk about immigration policy and the right to asylum, with a real burden-sharing between the member states. with mr marinescu we have shared important choices in the framework of the guidelines necessary to ensure that the internal security fund is consistent in the choices it makes. the border control tool will also provide adequate resources to implement the smart borders package. we have reached a satisfactory agreement on my dossier, for which i thank the commission and the council. it was useful to have put strong police cooperation and the fight against organised crime on the list of priorities. we have set the economic resource ceiling at over a billion euros. this will be divided between the european union action for 35% and the national programmes for 65%. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the programme and will continue to monitor the implementation of the programme. we have also defined clear and shared criteria for the allocation of resources and national programmes among the member states, which will be able to finance maintenance operations and operations also in third countries, but with a maximum of 8% of the national allocation. and by deleting the references to the pnr we have also avoided possible contamination with national pnr programmes which are specifically within the remit of national prerogatives. finally, we have improved the definition of organised crime, we have set minimum percentages to enable national programmes to be implemented, at least 20% of the resources available for specific actions relating to the prevention and combating of organised crime, and 10% for security, crisis management and the protection of critical infrastructure. i would like to conclude by saying that i think the compromise text is a good compromise which gives citizens confidence in police cooperation and in the increasingly decisive fight against transnational crime.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we must set up a more organized development of the financing instruments for the fight against organized crime and human trafficking. with summer, landings on the coasts will increase. to avoid new tragedies like that of lampedusa, the coordination agreed by the european council in the wake of the massacre on the island of sicily must be better applied. it is not enough to strengthen frontex and border controls; the european union must be able to take action to combat trafficking in human beings, with severe and harmonized penalties in all the member states. we must discourage illegal immigration but deal with human traffickers with a firm hand. the fight against crime is moving from greater and clearer cooperation, including in combating the entry and sale of counterfeit goods into the union, to stronger control of public procurement and so-called white-collar crime. from the fight against child pornography to drug trafficking, criminal use of the internet, and the links between organised crime and terrorism, emergencies are increasing that require more precise and rapid action by the union as a whole.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the asylum, migration and integration package is very important and ambitious and i congratulate the rapporteurs on the excellent work they have done. but i really hope that the financial resources are actually allocated to the main priorities. 1) a clear entry policy without derogations. yes to legal immigrants, who have a legal study or residence permit, also for work reasons. yes to asylum seekers, with an eye to the most vulnerable, especially minors, but mandatory returns for irregular migrants. 2) a european policy of sharing humanitarian emergencies to work towards the objective of a system of compulsory relocation of refugees within the european union. 3) the establishment of humanitarian corridors when there are serious humanitarian crises. 4) bilateral agreements between the eu and the countries of origin and transit of migrants to prevent irregular immigration, ensure effective return policies and effectively combat trafficking in human beings by criminal organisations. 5) strengthen frontex for effective border control with coordinated patrolling actions. a thought on frontex: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the creation of a european research area. finally, some questions on the general financial provisions. accessibility to a wide range of public and private actors who can benefit from resources risks fragmenting the resources themselves and reducing the concrete impact of actions.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the commissioners and the other rapporteurs, the measures are going in the right direction. in immigration, we need to move from the tedious, fragmented emergency responses that create tension and fear in the population, to more structured, more rational, more integrated and comprehensive interventions and policies, as has been said. the funds must respond to this need, to make the sometimes frightened public understand that this phenomenon will continue because it is part of our history and our historical phase, this phenomenon we can face by combining together attention, welcome and security. i would like to draw attention to three points: the first is that to facilitate, to fight against legal immigration, we must facilitate, we must make legal immigration possible. we also have to address the issue of refugees, to allow for flexibility, to move around europe. how hypocritical we are with the syrians who are prevented from being reunited with other relatives in europe. we have to address the issue of unaccompanied minors. we need projects to build databases. these children disappear, these girls disappear, and we need to give them a proper welcome. finally, we lack the solidarity - as sylvie guillaume said - which is the real basis for a community immigration policy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i congratulate the rapporteurs and thank the commissioner for her great support. finally, the asylum system and migration policies with these two multiannual funds are entering a new phase, although we would have preferred that there was a precise reference to the principle of solidarity in article 80 of the treaty and we know how crucial it would be to review dublin 3. i am, however, in favour of making the first fund more flexible, giving priority to asylum and integration and, above all, encouraging the resettlement of people who apply for it to other member states with targeted financial support. the second fund also supports weekly programmes, flows management, emergency measures and, above all, cooperation in security and the prevention of trafficking. we know that this is a subject which affects a number of countries of arrival in particular, as well as our own country, italy, so i hope that countries, islands like lampedusa, italy and the countries of first arrival, can be left less alone with a more solidarity-based and more cooperative philosophy.
member of the commission. - mr president, when i travel around in the european union, i get a lot of questions to discuss. but when we talk about funding, i always get the comment that it is too complicated and too bureaucratic, and that it is very difficult to apply for funds. that goes for local, regional and national politicians, but also for ngos and the media, etc. this new system is being simplified: we are making more flexible rules and reducing red tape. hopefully then we will be able to give an eu response to the challenges more quickly and more efficiently, because the challenges – as all of you have said – are huge in this field. we need to put the asylum system in place; we need to have a responsible policy managing all the different steps in a migration policy, including integration, return and border management. we need to do this responsibly while demonstrating solidarity. we have challenges when it comes to fighting crime, terrorism and corruption. we need to bridge the gap that we have had between internal and external policies, because, of course, they are very much linked in all these areas. the funds, therefore, will support appropriate relevant projects in all these areas. of course, every country has its specific needs, and that is why we have engaged in these dialogues. but we have been very clear from the commission side, and we will – throughout the process – make sure that we promote european added value and responsible european priorities. the tools are there, and the money will be there as soon as you have voted tomorrow – which i hope you will do, with a large majority. now, of course, we also need the political will. that we cannot vote on here today, but i hope it will be there in any case. thank you very much to all the rapporteurs, the shadow rapporteurs and others who have been contributing to this – and also, thank you to the presidency.
president of the council. - mr president, this positive debate confirms the scale of the challenges facing europe in the field of justice and home affairs and in the field of illegal migration and asylum. the challenges will be even greater in the future and europe must be prepared to face them in order to act on its own territory but also to help third countries. the financial instruments to be voted on tomorrow are part of our response to the new challenges. i am convinced that the use of these funds will add value at national level but also at european level. the european parliament and the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs have a great deal of experience in dealing with the problems within its competence. the adoption of the financial instruments a few weeks before the european elections will send a strong political message: the european union and its institutions are capable not only of listening to the problems and understanding the concerns of european citizens, but also of deciding and acting to better manage the problems. i have listened very carefully to the different views on emigration. i am not, of course, referring to mr griffin's racist and shameful remarks, which are a disgrace to the european union and its values. it is clear that this is a complex problem and has many aspects. this will be a problem that will occupy europe for years to come. that is why the greek presidency has also included it among its political priorities.
the rapporteur. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to thank all the members for a most interesting debate. i was pleased to hear the various points of view. i have one final wish: i hope that these funds, especially at this time of crisis, will be used in the best possible way by both the european union and the various member states. because the problems we have faced in these relations are really very important and i hope that we will be able, also through these relations, to solve them. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i therefore really hope that the commission will do its part in the best possible way, together with the council, to ensure that these funds are spent when they are paid, that things are done in the best possible way. i hope that all the countries of the european union can indeed tackle this enormous problem in a cooperative manner, where the mediterranean countries are unfortunately often and willingly left alone.
the rapporteur. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today's debate has certainly shown that there are certain key elements: solidarity, flexibility, simplification, coherence and cooperation which are certainly the essential ingredients of enhanced cooperation based on trust between the member states to ensure the success of these legislative dossiers. at the same time, however, it has become clear, madam commissioner, and i thank the presidency, that the resources are very limited. they must be used to the best of their ability, with projects that are fully shared and in a very short time. a list of priorities for clear agendas in which everyone, member states and the commission, knows what they have to do. of course, we must protect migrants, people, guarantee dignity, but at the same time we must ensure that member states have greater solidarity and greater responsibility, especially in countries that are over-exposed to migratory pressure. it is important to prevent and combat trafficking in the merchants of death, through concrete and feasible projects. mr rui tavares raised some objections, but there is no doubt that the prevention of organised crime is an integral part of the european union's security policies. at the same time, we must strengthen the security of our citizens through serious and credible migration and asylum policies. we are coming to the end of this term, and we have established fruitful cooperation with the commission and the presidency. we must remember that there are realities, such as sicily, greece, lampedusa and certain spanish realities, which deserve more attention. we hope that the next legislature will be able to bridge the gap which still exists between the european union and some people who still feel very far from europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too would like to join in thanking my colleague, the rapporteur, because what barbara weiler has done is very important. in the work of each of us, it always matters what we do, about the things we propose, but it also matters a lot how we do it. and barbara weiler gave us an important example of style in the work. this may be your last report, but that you're here arguing with the passion you always have, i think it's a beautiful sign for all of us. secondly, i believe that the work you and the shadow rapporteurs have done is doubly significant. on the one hand, there is this thing that has already been commented on by many, but that is very valuable, apparently taken for granted but in fact it was never taken for granted, that is to say, to define that for all this equipment, from mobile phones to smartphones, to tablets, to cameras, you will have a common charger from now on. it is a huge simplification, very important for all consumers, both in terms of the practicality of using these tools and in terms of cost. obviously there's a very significant reduction in the cost of what's going to be made available by technology and businesses from here on out. but i would also like to emphasize - because i consider it equally significant - the result we will have against the waste of electrical materials. we often talk about economies that must grow in a way that respects the environment and therefore must be compatible with the world in which we and future generations are called upon to live. but then, sometimes we forget about the concrete acts, the seemingly small but very significant facts, even for their effectiveness. electrical materials are often polluting materials, they are materials that have value, not to waste them and to recover them is a step forward in the direction of sustainable development that we have so often wished for.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i think there is a common feeling among all the political groups on this matter, and i think, commissioner, that there is a need to put some order into this matter. i understand the consultation of the member states and the attempt to make the most of existing structures, but please do not take a defensive, almost apologetic attitude, because the coherence of the business centres in asia in this field is not guaranteed. we have made a number of visits over the years, finding that they work, sometimes with more than a little bit of a puzzlement that was suggested to us during our meetings. the variety is extremely wide, we have a centre in india which costs 17 million euros in the european budget, 5 million euros in china, 2 million euros in thailand. each time we have very different variations of who is responsible, who coordinates the member states that are part of it, sometimes as in thailand, we also have switzerland and norway, sometimes not. i mean, we also have a whole series of initiatives going on to re-establish centers in vietnam, indonesia, malaysia, the philippines, and maybe tomorrow also in pakistan, burma, laos, but what are the lessons that we really want to take as a basis for the next steps? there are many questions that are still all on the table, like how do we have more consistency in the allocation of resources? are these structures really known to our businesses, especially the small and mediumsized enterprises which most need this type of interlocutor, are they duplicates? what are the costs and benefits, mr caspary has given some data which are clear. i think it can get almost a little awkward in the end. those who approach these structures may discover something that is perhaps more disappointing than we might have imagined at first. there's time to make it right, but you've got to make it right.
on behalf of the efd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that at this stage we cannot ask too much of the community budget, because the situation is before our eyes. the member states are in enormous difficulty also because of the constraints imposed on us by europe, and i do not think we can expect a budget to be flourishing in brussels when the european union itself is forcing us to take austerity measures. perhaps a little austerity would be good here in europe. the text refers, for example, to the strategic role of decentralised agencies, which i do not see as being of any importance, since the agencies are nothing but small and useless gifts that brussels has left to the various member states, thus satisfying each country. they have reached the stratospheric figure of 40 different agencies, with european officials who can live to cover tasks that are already the responsibility of the european commission. the only people who benefit from the existence of these agencies are european officials who can live well paid, perhaps in crete, in the very useful agency for network and information security, or in the sun of alicante in spain, in the office where community trademarks are drawn, surely much more attractive places than the grey brussels. it would be laughable if these agencies did not cost tens of millions of euros each year, with salaries and allowances to be paid and it is difficult to buy and rent premises. i am a staunch federalist, but this is not about the decentralisation of powers, but simply about the global spread of waste without any tangible benefits.
in writing. - the proposed reorganisation of financial instruments for the 2014-2020 programming period, including in the area of home affairs, must be a significant step towards a clearer and more coherent framework of resources. the objectives should be to: effectively counter illegal migration; promote effective return strategies; improve solidarity and responsibility-sharing between member states. the eu also has a duty to combat human trafficking by criminal organisations and to establish humanitarian corridors to prevent further tragedies at sea.
in writing. - i fully support the creation of an asylum, migration and integration fund because it will offer support to member states to identify, share and promote best practices and to establish effective cooperation in the framework of the common european asylum system. the aim of this fund is to create flexible tools which will allow member states to receive financial resources according to their specific situation and needs. i also consider of great importance the fact that the main objective of the fund is to promote effective integration of third-country nationals. on top of that it will enhance solidarity and responsibility between member states.
in writing. - i do not agree with the guillame report on the asylum, migration and integration fund, and therefore i did not intend to support it with my vote.
in writing. - i consider the reorganisation of financial instruments in the field of home affairs, the proposals put forward by the commission and the objective of correcting past failures and responding to present and future challenges to be both shared and achievable. i therefore support the report and i shall vote in favour of this measure. as regards the issue of asylum and migration, i think that the commission's proposal to merge the three existing funds into one fund is sensible and that this will help to solve some of the problems of the past more easily. i also find it acceptable and supportive that the fund will focus on strengthening the common european asylum system, facilitating legal migration into the union and seeking to promote fair return strategies, improving solidarity and sharing between member states. i also appreciate the work done by the rapporteur in seeking to ensure a fair distribution of funding and to ensure that the actions financed have a clear european added value by contributing to objectives consistent with the union's policies. finally, i think it is right to ask for the european parliament to play a greater role at certain stages of the fund implementation procedure.
in writing. - i welcome the commission's proposal to merge the three existing funds (european refugee fund, european fund for the integration of third-country nationals and european return fund) into a single fund, as it allows in principle a rationalisation of the instruments and the possibility of spending the total amount in a more systematic and waste-free manner, thus contributing positively to the achievement of the eu's objectives in this area. i do, however, agree with some of the doubts expressed by the house, in particular on the methods of consolidation between the various asylum instruments and the need for guarantees on the fair distribution of the funding allocated to the achievement of the objectives set, as well as the need to promote clear implementation rules in the field of relocation that strike a fair balance between the functioning of european action and respect for fundamental rights.
in writing. - i did not intend to support the schlyter report analysing the hong kong international convention for the safe and environmentally sound recycling of ships, because this is not a matter for the eu alone.
in writing. - the issue of ship scrapping has always been a major environmental and safety concern for the workers involved in this task, the extremely widespread practice of sending ships to the african, indian or asian coasts to be dismantled without taking into account any safety standards and very difficult to defeat, regulations on this matter such as the european one (regulation (ec) no 1013/2006) which prohibits the export of hazardous waste outside the oecd countries are easily circumvented, especially for a sector such as the maritime one. the commission has also proposed that the commission should provide a detailed description of the measures to be taken to ensure that the waste is not recycled. in this respect, the hong kong convention, given its global character, can guarantee fairly encouraging results despite its greater flexibility in some areas that the eu openly condemns. i therefore voted in favour of this recommendation, considering it necessary to ratify the convention pending the entry into force of more binding european legislation, also in favour of a more comprehensive approach to the matter.
in writing. - the activities of the troika have enormous gaps and shortcomings: the lack of transparency, democratic legitimacy and democratic control. it is therefore appropriate that these instruments and bodies should be integrated into the legislation of the european union and that, in particular, the european parliament should be fully involved and have an ex ante and ex post role in every decision.
in writing. - the report, while attempting to highlight the lack of transparency in the work of the troika, continues to justify its choices. that is why i did not intend to support it with my vote.
in writing. - the troika has failed. europe has failed. it is a pity that with them and because of them several countries are plunged into poverty. the troika, the eu's arm, has imposed damaging austerity on greece, ireland, portugal, cyprus and even italy since 2010, acting as butchers and not surgeons. while the report regrets that the troika's programmes contain detailed requirements for cuts in social spending, services (including health systems) and salaries: the commission's proposals are based on the principle of subsidiarity, which is the basis of the treaty of rome, and the principle of subsidiarity. and that begs the question: how do you prove that? the only thing that is certain and certain is that italy, for example, has become a country with about 10 million poor people and witnesses every day the tragedy of entrepreneurs who kill themselves as a result of these wrong choices by brussels.
in writing. - i voted against because i do not think it is right to blame the crisis entirely on the activities of the troika. i would like to remind you that the troika has saved the whole of europe from potentially more serious and more widespread conditions which could potentially have affected not only the countries covered by the programme but the whole of the euro system. i welcome the commission's intention to set up an emf to replace these two bodies, which are mainly temporary and emergency, in order to ensure greater regulation, which must necessarily coincide with democratic legitimacy. the crisis in the european economy in recent years has been a major cost to many, but it must be remembered that europe's main objective is to stimulate growth, not the other way around, as many citizens now believe.
in writing. - today this house could send a strong signal of change, to say that the eu's policies have been a failure and that therefore the course should be reversed immediately. two amendments to the text were tabled which went in this direction: one called for the "immediate withdrawal of the euro+ pact, the stability pact, the six-pack, the two-pack and the so-called budget pact, as well as the suspension of the european semester process and economic governance", while the other was even harsher and more direct. the european parliament 'rejected any binding obligation, condition or restriction which was contrary to the sovereign right of the member states to determine their own economic policies, including the management of natural resources and trade relations; argues that the agreements and treaties governing eu integration should be reversible and that the status of each country should be adjusted according to the will of its citizens and its actual situation, in the belief that the necessary exception clauses should be allowed:' this was the text which the vast majority of my colleagues were prepared to reject. the citizens must know who is complicit in this now unsustainable situation.
in writing. - analysis of the economic and social situation in countries which have been the subject of economic adjustment programmes reveals alarming data on employment, especially among young people, and on the social fabric. the impact of adjustment programmes has often been devastating, with fewer jobs and worse conditions, poverty and the risk of social exclusion increased. the social pact and the welfare state model are in grave danger. therefore, in the context of future crises, i hope that the troika and the member states will put in place democratic crisis management mechanisms that will improve the transparency and legitimacy of decision-making and enable the eu institutions, including parliament, to achieve the social objectives set out in the treaties and the european social charter.
in writing. - the report is a valid and courageous denunciation of the dramatic social impact of the troika's activities. that's why i voted for you.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it focuses on the social crisis which caused the economic crisis and partly on the austerity policy imposed by the troika and the national authorities to deal with it. the text criticised the lack of a legal basis for being able to deal with crises at european level and stressed that europe in the future should be better prepared for such situations, also identifying some of the reasons behind the current social problems, such as the existence of programmes of limited duration but with long-term consequences, the imposition of too strict measures in too narrow time frames based on partial and imprecise studies and the almost total exclusion of parliament during all stages of decision-making and implementation of the programmes. the report, in addition to criticising some of the decisions taken in the past, is intended to be constructive in identifying the mistakes made in dealing with this particular crisis in order to avoid making them again should such critical conditions re-emerge for more than one member state, because the price paid in social terms is now too high.
in writing. - the analysis in the report is very precise in analysing the effects of the financial crisis on the public debt of some member states and on subsequent requests for assistance by them and the conditionality attached to intervention measures. the data collected show that austerity has not produced the medium and long-term benefits hoped for by the main supporters of these policies, but has had a severe and negative impact on unemployment rates, increased poverty and social exclusion of the lowest income groups, and seriously undermined social dialogue. the reduction in the school drop-out rate cannot be seen as a positive factor either, but rather as a greater difficulty for young people to enter the world of work, which has encouraged them to pursue further education. it is clear that the eu has not respected its employment obligations and that the troika has not taken account of the fundamental social rights of european citizens. i therefore support the recommendations calling for these failed policies to be abandoned and for the principles of flexicurity and competitiveness and innovation to be considered.
in writing. - the general provisions on the fund highlight the wide range of public and private actors who can benefit from the resources allocated. the risk of squandering resources and of making the possibility of achieving concrete results almost irrelevant is obvious. this would also undermine one of the pillars of the 2014-2020 programming, namely to concentrate resources on targeted and ambitious projects. i hope that the commission will monitor the programmes, not only by monitoring their effectiveness ex post, but above all by assessing their impact ex ante, so that the fund can be of real use for a real, concrete and effective european policy to combat irregular immigration.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this regulation because i believe it is necessary to adopt an integrated eu approach towards migration and asylum applications. i also believe that a comprehensive eu immigration policy will not only enhance social cohesion inside the european union but it will also create a strong deterrent against illegal immigration, human trafficking and terrorism. with this text we also stress the importance that all member states must create an area without internal borders where people may enter, move, live and work freely, confident that their rights are fully respected and their security assured.
in writing. - the report on the asylum and migration fund aims to analyse the commission's proposal for the creation of a fund which should contribute to the achievement of the eu's strategic objectives and represent added value for the completion of the common area of freedom, security and justice. this fund would be the result of the merger of the european refugee fund, the european fund for the integration of third-country nationals and the european return fund. its objective is to strengthen the common european asylum system by facilitating legal migration to the eu, promoting return strategies and improving solidarity and responsibility-sharing between member states. i therefore support the amendments proposed by the rapporteur which, in line with the european commission's proposals, are aimed at creating a more efficient and flexible financial instrument, which will also provide the right economic basis for such important issues as asylum and migration policies.
in writing. - i find the text balanced and that is why i supported it with my vote.
in writing. - the proposal by the european commission to merge the three existing asylum and migration funds into a single financial instrument is, i believe, a positive and useful one, as is the proposal for the internal security fund, in the context of a sensible reorganization of financial instruments in the field of internal affairs. in this way, i am convinced that past failures can be corrected and present and future challenges in this area can be tackled more effectively. i believe that the work done by the four rapporteurs on this subject has been commendable and that by approving these reports parliament can send a positive message to all european citizens. as regards the report by mr fontana, i particularly welcome the call for the correct use of eu funds, including through on-the-spot checks and inspections without prior notice, and for the adoption by the member states, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, of national rules on the eligibility of expenditure. other proposals aimed at enabling the funds to be spent effectively, in line with the objectives and in the light of the contribution of each member state, such as those concerning eligibility, cofinancing and annual prefinancing, are, in my view, shared and calibrated.
in writing. - the fight against organised crime is a top priority for the union, especially in these years of continuing crisis. it is well known, and the data confirm this, that crime rates rise with long periods of economic recession. moreover, organized crime is increasingly international and transnational, so our actions must also be as wide-ranging as possible and implemented in cooperation with third countries. all this has a political, diplomatic, organizational and financial cost. we must protect legal migrants, guarantee dignity, but at the same time we must ensure that member states have greater solidarity and greater responsibility, especially in countries that are over-exposed to migratory pressure. prevention of organised crime must finally become an integral part of the european union's security policies.
in writing. - in the face of worrying data on crime, especially organised crime, it must be a priority for all of us to work to safeguard the security of citizens and the development of the internal market, which is threatened by the laundering of illicit proceeds. in this respect, it is now clear that police cooperation between member states and third countries is essential to combat transnational crime. the internal security fund, together with the asylum and migration fund, forms part of the multiannual framework of the european union 2014-2020 and is a key instrument to incentivise police cooperation, as well as preventing and combating crime and crisis management. we regret that the isec and cips funds available to member states under the 2007-2013 programming were under-utilised. i therefore agree with my colleague that it is appropriate to take decisive action on the objectives that the eu must pursue in the field of crime, so that appropriate methodologies, instruments and structures are developed and promoted to coordinate the member states at administrative and operational level. the amendments proposed by the rapporteur are therefore intended to improve the commission's proposal by bringing it more closely into line with european and international legislation (schengen agreement) on organised crime.
in writing. - when we talk about fighting crime, subsidiarity and solidarity become the added value of participation in the eu when they are expressed, as in this case, in concrete aid and instruments of action. that is why i voted in favour of the text.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this proposal because i believe that europe must never abandon the member states in the face of the ever-present problems of crime within our borders. the proposal provides for a large amount of funding (approximately eur 4[nbsp ]680 million, subject to approval in the 2014-2020 budget) for member states to allow a more efficient fight against organised and cross-border crime, seeking ever greater cooperation between states and europol, creating a modern it and technological network capable of ensuring a continuous and fast exchange of information between different authorities and combating cybercrime. however, these publicly funded interventions must be targeted and zero waste. the report highlights that the criteria for allocating funding must take account of many factors, including crime rates, which vary widely from one member state to another, and that the commission must be constantly monitoring the achievement of the objectives. i think this proposal is extremely constructive and europe's help is indispensable for many member states in order to defeat certain criminal organizations which would otherwise continue unabated to cause harm to citizens and to europe.
in writing. - with the creation of the internal market, european citizens have finally been able to enjoy a market that is progressively less constrained by internal barriers. however, organised crime has also been able to take advantage of this situation, which is why police cooperation between member states and with third countries is an essential tool in dealing with transnational crime. the financial support instrument for police cooperation, preventing and combating crime and crisis management for the period 2014-2020 complements the existing funds in order to ensure a rationalisation and greater efficiency in the distribution and effectiveness of the funds.
in writing. - ensuring the security and control of the external borders must, now more than ever, become a priority for the union. after the tragic events in lampedusa, we have made progress by approving the eurosur programme and speeding up joint operations with frontex. but all this is not enough. we must be more ambitious, understanding that external borders are indeed common borders and not leaving individual member states to deal with a phenomenon which has obvious repercussions for the whole of the european union.
in writing. - the report is not objective and deals with the question of migration flows with rhetoric and without concrete action. that is why i did not intend to support it with my vote.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of this report because i consider the establishment of the internal security fund to be a positive step for the european union and its objectives to be shared. as regards the external borders and visas in particular, i believe it is of the utmost importance to deal with the construction of the infrastructure needed for border crossing points and border surveillance, as well as financing the computer systems provided for by the european border surveillance system, facilitating the effective management of migration flows, the processing of visa applications and consular cooperation. i therefore believe that the fund can be a valuable instrument for dealing with these issues. i particularly welcome the proposal by mr marinescu to identify certain indicators in the area of borders and visas to be used to measure the achievement of the objectives of this regulation, such as the number of border crossing points equipped with information systems, communication infrastructure and equipment to support the management of migration flows. i agree with the emphasis on the importance of the operational potential of frontex, as well as the request that the national programmes focus on the use of resources for the implementation of eurosur at national level and for the acquisition of equipment that contributes to the effectiveness of frontex joint operations.
in writing. - a common management of the external borders would certainly be desirable, since some countries are much more prone to migration flows than others simply because of their geographical location. it is useless to establish common rules and commitments if, on the evidence, the member states fail to comply with these commitments: italy has been culpably left alone by europe to handle emergency landings, mainly in lampedusa but not only; i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. if that's the logic to take for me, that's fine, with everyone being responsible for their own borders: i am not saying that we should be united in our views, but that we should be united in our approach. we need consistency, and if we have chosen to share borders, we must do so to the end, otherwise everyone will return to managing their own territories in full autonomy, which at this point i think may be the best solution.
in writing. - the security and stability of networks and information systems and the continuity of core services are fundamental aspects to ensure the proper functioning of the internal market, in particular for the development of the digital single market. i share the aims of the directive, which aims to improve the security of the internet, private networks and information systems that underpin the functioning of our societies and economies. in order to enhance the effectiveness of the proposed measures, i welcome the amendments aimed at ensuring effective and simplified cooperation between member states through the establishment of a collaborative network to provide information on the exchange of best practices and the development of incident reports having a significant impact on the safety of core services across the union.
in writing. - the information economy is both strategic for the competitiveness of our economic systems and a sensitive area from the point of view of data protection. the report under vote contains a legislative proposal which deals with the complex problem of network security in a concrete and balanced way. that is why i have voted for it.
in writing. - the rapporteur for this proposal is a colleague with whom i work a lot, including in his capacity as coordinator of the epp in the imco committee. i have greatly appreciated your ability to defend the sacrosanct principle of increasing the security of networks and to listen to those who differed on the most controversial issues. i agree with the general objective of increasing the security of european networks, but also with the way in which it has been set out: first, the legal instrument chosen allows the member states to adapt the fixed poles to their own specificities and to define the application characteristics in relation to their priorities. in addition, coordination at european level is carried out through national contact points, which are being strengthened compared with the present situation. i must say that the rapporteur has deviated quite a bit from the initial proposal in the way he has implemented it, showing pragmatism and mastery of the subject. i therefore voted in favour of this proposal.
in writing. - this morning, speaking about the european budget for next year, i wanted to stress the uselessness of several decentralised agencies of the union, citing as examples enisa, the european agency for network and information security, which is based in greece, in crete to be precise. we have voted today on this text, which deals with a directive aimed at ensuring a high common level of network and information security in the union: i have found no reference in the report, if not a marginal reference, to the work of the european agency in crete to prove the correctness of my statements this morning. the subject of the proposal is, however, too important to be the subject of sterile debate, which is why i wanted to support this text, which calls on the member states to increase their level of preparedness and to improve cooperation with each other, while operators of critical infrastructures such as energy, transport and the main providers of information society services (e-commerce platforms, social networks) are asked to take appropriate measures to manage security risks and to report serious incidents to the competent authorities, thus creating an essential condition for a safe and reliable information environment.
in writing. - the digitalisation of markets and services, together with the increase in spending by european citizens online, have led the european digital agency to call for the introduction of network and information protection measures as early as 2010. the objective of the proposal is well received in this respect, aiming to strengthen a high common level of security in europe. it is important, however, that the principles of proportionality are respected and are well balanced with the outstanding obligations of the member states in the field of safety and accident reporting. a very interesting point is the one concerning penalties, which must be well proportioned so as not to risk discouraging the reporting of incidents.
in writing. - while i share the importance of transparency in financial reporting, i believe that the request for over eur 43 million for the union's financial reporting and auditing programme for the period 2014-2020 is excessive, which is why i have decided to abstain in this vote.
in writing. - i am in favour of such an important programme to facilitate the correct and transparent drawing up of budgets and to ensure simple auditing by the responsible bodies, overcoming the barriers still existing between the different national legislation of the member states. i believe it is in europe's interest to pursue such programmes, whose public utility is indisputable, also in view of the ever-increasing and natural integration of markets. the reasons put forward by the rapporteur are very much in line with the objectives underlying the european union's institution, namely to ensure and help citizens and businesses to deal with each other in a simple and fair manner, overcoming the limitations imposed by nationality, which still exist in the drafting and revision of budgets.
in writing. - today i voted in favour of the report on radio equipment amending the commission proposal for a revision of directive 1999/5/ec of the european parliament and of the council. the amended directive provides a regulatory framework for the placing on the market, circulation and entry into service in the eu of radio equipment and telecommunications terminal equipment with a view to creating uniform rules aimed at completing the internal market. in this connection, the directive also contains provisions on health and safety protection, electromagnetic compatibility and the prevention of harmful interference. i welcome the rapporteur's proposals for some changes at vertical level (definition of radio equipment, registration of certain equipment, traceability, etc.) and horizontal level (improvements in wording) which will reduce the impact of administrative burdens on smes and at the same time ensure adequate consumer protection by increasing market surveillance. the amendments also aim to eliminate any inconsistencies in the legislation that could be the source of a lack of legal transparency.
in writing. - in view of the technological developments of recent years, particularly the massive development of wi-fi equipment, i believe that the harmonized standards for radio equipment need to be updated to improve the safety of networks, and for these reasons i voted in favour of the weiler report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this proposal, which i believe contains the necessary changes to the already good text presented by the commission. in particular, i am in favour of greater regulation of radio equipment, including both generating and receiving equipment, as this would ensure greater harmonisation in the management of radio spectrum in view of their ever-growing range of uses. i also think it is important that this regulation does not place an undue burden on the industry and smes, as there are now advanced, easy-to-use and low-cost systems to connect producers, consumers and the regulatory bodies in the sector. in this context, the call for the use of electronic labels and manufacturers' websites wherever possible seems to me to be extremely appropriate. the directive and the proposal put forward by mrs weiler also seek to strengthen the eu's fight to eliminate waste and simplify the use of electronic devices, in particular the desire to extend to all radio equipment the need to use a universal charger and accessories. i think this is really sensible and right.
in writing. - the original proposal submitted by the commission required some amendments in order to protect smes, which in the original text risk being left exposed to too high administrative burdens, without, however, sacrificing a high level of consumer protection. i also think it is important to ensure that the instruments are interoperable, particularly the various radio equipment and the various accessories, particularly the chargers.
in writing. - i agree with this report when it proposes to put small and mediumsized enterprises at the centre of the next eu budget. i am opposed to those passages in the text where the rapporteur advocates a future increase in the budget for the 'external representation of the union', propaganda and migrants. that's why i decided to abstain.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because a good preparation of the future budget lays the foundations for the proper functioning of all european and national bodies. the proposal highlights that the european union will have fewer resources for the 2015 budget than in the past (budget 2013), but that with the right use of the money available it will still be able to play a key role in stimulating the growth of its economy. the committee on budgets calls on the commission to assess carefully the costs and benefits of the movements to be budgeted, and points out in particular areas where economic efforts should not be reduced, such as education, mobility, research, innovation, smes and entrepreneurship, seeing in them a great potential for job creation and the increase of european competitiveness. it also considers it important to invest in renewable energy, the digital agenda, infrastructure, communication and information technologies and to increase cross-border connectivity. it calls for long-term investment. like the rapporteur, i hope that, although the budgets must respect the mff, the budgetary authority can continue to have all the necessary instruments at its disposal to achieve the europe 2020 objectives.
in writing. - i am strongly against this resolution because its text consists of a series of attacks on russia with the tone and language of the cold war. this will only help to inflame the debate and to destabilise ukraine. the resolution ignores the fact that half of ukraine is pro-russian and russian-speaking and has no plans whatsoever to join the eu or nato. to oblige ukraine to make a choice between the eu and russia means splitting the country and encouraging its dissolution. i believe that threatening russia with sanctions, without leaving space for political dialogue and negotiation, is completely irresponsible. in addition i am astonished by the reckless decision of the commission and the european council to allocate a huge sum, eur[nbsp ]11 billion, just for a couple of years, in favour of ukraine. we do not have such money. and we cannot trust to have it back from a corrupt country on the brink of bankruptcy. we did not ask for any prior commitment by the ukrainian government in the fight against corruption, nor did we explore alternative financial aid possibilities, such as recovery of the assets of the ukrainian oligarchs that are hidden in european banks.
in writing. - i believe that what has happened in ukraine and in particular in crimea in recent days must be addressed directly and promptly by the european union and the entire international community, without giving ground on the issue of external interference by one sovereign state against another sovereign state. the eu has also been active in the fight against terrorism and the fight against organised crime. the transatlantic alliance and a united european union speaking with one voice must cooperate to ensure that the situation in crimea does not escalate into war and that relations with russia are not irreparably damaged. i fully share what has been decided in the foreign affairs council and the extraordinary european council, and i agree with the international community's involvement. i appreciate the ambitious programme of political, economic and social reforms undertaken by the ukrainian government and i support all kinds of assistance, whether financial, technical or in the form of solidarity, from the union to ukraine. finally, i hope that free elections can be held on 25 may 2014.
in writing. - in view of the assessment of the implementation of the lisbon treaty, particularly with regard to the implications of the major changes introduced in the interinstitutional relations between the european parliament and the european commission since its entry into force, i support the strengthening of the democratic legitimacy, independence and political role of the commission, which will be reinforced by the new procedure for the nomination of candidates for the presidency of the commission by european political parties. however, despite the fact that the european parliament has succeeded in gaining recognition of its new powers and role as co-legislator and despite the progress made in relations with the commission, a number of problems and shortcomings remain to be addressed, in particular as regards information sharing, delegated and implementing acts, impact assessment, the handling of legislative initiatives and parliamentary questions.
in writing. - this report is intended as an evaluation of the implementation of the lisbon treaty with a specific focus on the changes introduced in the interinstitutional relations between parliament and the commission. in the light of the democratic evolution of the eu since the introduction of the lisbon treaty, the commission, while still the eu's executive organ par excellence, seems to have lost some of its capacity to influence the union's institutional architecture as a result of the economic and financial crisis, which has undoubtedly highlighted the still strong presence of an intergovernmental approach dictated by the national interests of the member states, represented by the council, to the detriment of a community macro-strategy. however, in the light of the role which the european commission has played and should play at international level, it is essential to restore to it the political legitimacy which it has as a body which ensures that the acquis communautaire is properly applied. in view of the european elections in may 2014 and the future of the eu, i therefore agree with the rapporteur that parliament should continue to monitor the commission's activities. this must not mean, however, that there is a phenomenon of parliamentarisation due to the consolidation of parliament's powers of control over the commission itself, which, although monitored, should enjoy the autonomy that is its due.
in writing. - i have wanted to support the rangel report which analyses the application of the treaty of lisbon to the european parliament. i think that the passages in which it is called for parliament's right of initiative to be fully recognised in future revisions of the treaties, for example by requiring the commission to act on all requests made by parliament under article 225 of the tfeu, are particularly important.
in writing. - i think the report by my colleague is acceptable and i am voting in favour of parliament's adoption of the text. the implications of the major changes introduced in the interinstitutional relations between the european parliament and the european commission are the focus of the analysis, and i think the rapporteur's calibrated and neutral style is to be appreciated. i support the proposal for the nomination of candidates for the presidency of the commission by european political parties, and i believe it is important to strengthen its democratic legitimacy, political influence and efficiency in every possible way within the framework of the existing treaties or in the context of a future revision of the treaties. i agree with the rapporteur that we must avoid excessive parliamentarisation of the system and that the principle of separation of powers must be borne in mind. i think that the proposal to reduce the majority currently required for a motion of censure against the commission is sensible, as is the proposal to invite the candidate for president of the commission to present his programme to parliament. finally, i think it is important to ensure that the president of the commission has greater autonomy in the choice of commissioners.
in writing. - i think that perhaps the only useful thing that the treaty of lisbon has done is to give the european parliament a greater role and power, which until then had been reduced to almost a mere 'institutional presence'. we must never forget that we have here the representatives elected by the european citizens, the only ones with popular legitimacy, and our scope for action is still very limited, compared, for example, with that of our national counterparts. there is an important point in this report which i would like to stress, namely that 'it calls for the parliament's right of legislative initiative to be fully recognised at the time of the next revision of the treaties by requiring the commission to act on all requests made by parliament under article 225 of the tfeu by submitting a legislative proposal within an appropriate time limit': i would like to see the commission's proposals on the subject of the internal market adopted.
in writing. - i appreciate the emphasis on excessive bureaucratization and technicalization, which often risks being far removed from the real lives and difficulties of european citizens. the role of parliament is therefore essential in its capacity as the democratic representative of over 500 million people in the eu, a role which has been enhanced by the lisbon treaty, a co-decision making role which is often called into question by the lack of information exchange, an excessive proliferation of delegated and implementing acts, and the often reduced attention given to parliamentary questions and other parliamentary initiatives.
in writing. - while i share the views expressed in the deva report, i found some of the passages in the text contradictory and unclear, which is why i abstained.
in writing. - i welcome the motion for a resolution which emphasizes the importance of rights and property in creating wealth and promoting sustainable development in developing countries and seeks to stimulate the european union to do more in this area. i particularly welcome the rapporteur's call to support the right to self-determination, defined as the right of all peoples to dispose freely of their wealth and natural resources, and to call on the union to condemn the wrongful ownership of land and to protect the security of the property regime for smallholders. i believe that the union has done a lot in terms of development policies, in terms of aid, trade and investment, and that it can certainly make a major contribution in this area too, by supporting land reform in developing countries, by effectively assisting new owners, by equipping the courts with greater capacity to enforce property laws effectively. finally, i believe that it is important to respect gender equality in property rights and i welcome the rapporteur's call for legislative measures to prevent discrimination and to remove existing social constraints.
in writing. - the european union has for years been trying to present itself as a responsible international actor, aiming to promote and disseminate human rights throughout the world. in this context, poverty eradication and the promotion of sustainable development are key objectives of the eu, but they are still far from being achieved. i support the report's comprehensive approach to the use of property in european action, covering several areas which are distinct from each other but which can contribute to wealth creation together. these include agricultural productivity, food security, economic growth, environmental protection and the promotion of women's rights. the union must focus effectively on all these aspects, concentrating its funds and actions in a targeted and concrete way, in order to achieve tangible results.
in writing. - i voted in favour of that report because its aim is to prevent inconsistencies from the policies pursued by the eu and so avoid adverse repercussions for developing countries. with this text we call on the eu and its member states to ensure that the new ‘post-2015’ framework includes a policy coherence for development objective which makes it possible to develop reliable indicators to measure the progress of donors and partner countries and to assess the impact of the various policies on development. i also believe that it would be really important to establish an independent system within the union to receive and formally process complaints by members of the public or communities affected by the union’s policies.
in writing. - the 2013 eu report on policy coherence for development (pcd) has now become a comprehensive policy tool that recognises the critical issues identified in eu policies. this system is useful both to avoid any negative impact on developing countries and to identify inconsistencies which would undermine the optimal coherence of community policies. i welcome the proposals put forward, in this case the establishment of an arbitration mechanism to decide between conflicting policies in accordance with the eu's commitments on cps, the promotion of cps by the european parliament and, finally, the need to establish an independent community mechanism to formally collect and analyse complaints from citizens and communities to whom eu policies are addressed.
in writing. - there are several passages in this report that have left me puzzled. the lack of an objective approach that goes beyond the propaganda rhetoric has led me to vote against the text.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of the report because i believe that policy coherence for development has become a global strategic instrument and that the objective of avoiding inconsistencies arising from the policies pursued by the european union and negative impacts on developing countries is a shared one. i particularly appreciate the fact that the focus has been on methods and mechanisms which allow for optimum consistency in order to avoid inconsistencies. i agree with the proposal to set up an arbitration body to decide on conflicting policies in accordance with the commitments made to the president of the european commission on policy coherence for development, and i agree that the commission should have full political responsibility for the broad guidelines. i think it is important to stress the importance of the european parliament in the process of promoting csf, through the parliamentary agenda, the committees, promoting dialogue with partner countries and encouraging the exchange of views with civil society. finally, i welcome the proposal to set up an independent mechanism within the union to collect and formally deal with complaints from citizens and communities concerned by union policies.
in writing. - policy coherence for development (pcd) has become an indispensable global strategic tool to avoid overlaps, inconsistencies and waste. the mechanisms proposed in the report can have interesting implications in terms of explaining the mechanisms of how policies work, especially in cases of conflict between different policies. the role of parliament in this area is also of particular importance, particularly in promoting development policies and responsible supervision.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of the motion for a resolution because i believe that the protection of human rights is of the utmost importance and that the european union must play a leading role in this respect in the international organizations to which it belongs, first and foremost the united nations. i therefore consider the motion for a resolution tabled in plenary useful and positive, since it sets out parliament's guidelines for the 25th session of the cdu and aims to stimulate cooperation between the various institutions of the union, the member states and the united nations high commissioner for human rights. i believe that it is useful and worth supporting the integration of the work being done in geneva within the cdu into the relevant internal and external activities of the union, including those of parliament, such as committee and interparliamentary delegations. i welcome the call on the member states of the union to support the cdu by ratifying all the international human rights instruments implemented by that body, and i also consider it important to sign conventions which have not yet been ratified. finally, i agree that the protection of human rights defenders is a priority and that it should be supported in every way.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, when i was 14 years old, russia was ruled by a totalitarian communist regime which suppressed freedom and did not provide for voting to elect party and state leaders. there was only one party and no civil liberties and no civil rights. when a polish cardinal was elected pope in the late 1970s, the politburo did everything it could to oppose a mission that would have opened up those countries and the world, which was separated from the west, to democracy. that path to democracy is in danger of being clouded by incidents such as those which occurred in bolotnaya square. but i think that we here must take note of the path that russia has taken towards democracy and freedom and see this resolution as a further invitation to the russian authorities to continue on this path by refraining from choices and actions that go against democracy and freedom.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the laws against homosexuality passed and adopted by nigeria and uganda are certainly unjust and deplorable laws which we must condemn, against which we must take strong action. however, i am sorry to see that there are those who do not miss the opportunity to bring back to this parliament the issues of gender identity, the right to assisted reproduction for homosexual couples, the right to adoption by homosexual couples, as has been done in the annual report on civil rights approved by this parliament. never, no urgent resolution to call for the protection of the rights of embryos. lgbt people have a voice, they can make their voice heard. but many unborn children have never had a voice to be heard. i wonder when this parliament will discuss the rights of embryos, which are the real discriminated and unheard minority.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, human trafficking is a worldwide phenomenon, but it is now dangerously concentrated in sinai, where it finds an environment favourable to the development of this abominable practice. jihadist terrorism has increased and the egyptian government must support the uncr's action; the lack of security in sinai allows terrorist groups to proliferate and find incredible accomplices. the ever-increasing activities of terrorist groups in sinai have been made concrete last year alone, with over 250 attacks. we are facing a human trafficking ring with prostitution and forced labour, which are the most dramatic elements of this situation to which this resolution must give a firm and determined response from the european union.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 13 march 2014. the sitting here in brussels had been suspended for two years because of work on our roof. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i would like to thank the whole administration, and in particular dg inlo, for their impeccable work.
i would like to inform you that on thursday the president, together with the president of the council, will sign, pursuant to rule 74 of the rules of procedure, 12 acts adopted under the ordinary legislative procedure. the titles of the minutes shall be published in the minutes of the sitting. i call mr borghezio to speak on a point of order.
mr president, this morning in italy, in the veneto region, 30 uncensored people were arrested by the police for crimes of opinion, because they were venetian separatists. i respectfully ask the presidency to look into this case, because it is a clear violation of the rights of freedom in a member state of the european union. you don't prosecute people for their ideas.
mr borghezio, as you well understand, it has nothing to do with the agenda, but the presidency takes note of these statements.
mr grässle, you must make these comments on the discharge at the beginning of the debate on this item on the agenda, that is to say, this evening.
the legal basis i am informed by the offices is article 20 of the regulation. in any event, comments shall be made when the discussion of the specific item on the agenda begins. we are now talking about changing the agenda of parliamentary work. when the time comes for the landfill, everyone will be free to make their comments.
the agenda includes the report by glenis willmott, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on clinical trials of medicinal products for human use and repealing directive 2001/20/ec (com ((2012) 0369 c7-0194/2012 2012/0192 ((cod)) (a7-0208/2013).
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately there are still many diseases for which there is no effective cure, and so new research and experimentation are welcome. at the heart of all this we must not forget that there are the sick, the suffering people, who unfortunately often have only one hope, namely new methods and medicines that can work. this is the hope of dozens of families in italy who would like to be treated with the stamina method or other methods devised by professor vannoni. i'm not a doctor, i'm not a scientist, i'm not a researcher, but i'm a person who has known many of these people. i listened to their testimonies and i had a clear idea: for them, this is the only chance and the only hope for life they have at the moment. i find it shameful that there are doctors and professors who reject this method a priori because it is not based on scientific proof. the experts on the committees should perhaps first meet the patients and their families and then draw any conclusions, not the other way around as has been the case so far.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as announced in this resolution, there are three rapporteurs because three committees have been involved in a long and arduous process of examining the commission's proposal for the mid-term review of the stockholm programme. some time has been spent and we wanted to examine the first results of this initiative, which was initiated by the commission. i think that this attitude should be emphasized, because we in the union, and in particular in this parliament, must not only propose and decide but also verify and monitor what is happening in practice and what are the tangible results of the initiatives for the progressive integration of legal and judicial systems in europe. the results we have obtained can be summed up as follows. the first point i would like to raise, because it seems to me to be a bit new in our debates, is that we must check how many citizens are benefiting from the now extensive elaboration of regulatory monuments, a set of rules which increasingly regulates our legislation at european level. the results are disappointing. the rules adopted are very important - they have been listed in our results - it is very important that the subsidiarity of the rules as a whole with respect to the national states is always faithfully integrated, but an actual result of implementation on the citizens is disappointing, because the percentages of citizens involved in the use of the benefits that we, with our standardisation, want to provide them are very low. the first point to be made in the mid-term evaluation of the stockholm outcome is that implementation is becoming a categorical imperative for the union's legislative work as well. i shall therefore focus on two aspects in order to keep to the present time. the first is that we need to take the commission's initiative on the justice scoreboard to the end and therefore prepare the instruments for monitoring implementation and enforcement and that this must extend to the entire legal and judicial horizon, and therefore to private, civil, commercial and so on and also to criminal law, that is to say to all those aspects of the civil and everyday life of citizens and the protection of their security which is represented by these rules. we must have a greater say in this. the second aspect concerns the progressive creation in europe of a common legal and judicial culture, that is, something which forms the basis of the behaviour of legal practitioners, and this too has been included in our proposal.
the rapporteur. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, mr president of the council, madam commissioner, a few days before the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, this parliament adopted a report entitled 'an area of freedom, security and justice serving the citizens'. the aim was to bring the treaty of lisbon forward so that this parliament could be immediately engaged in a reflection on a large number of issues, all of them of extraordinary importance. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it must be said, then, that the procedure of the associated committees juri, libe and afco has given a positive result, so much so that this procedure has been repeated for the report which i am now presenting and which uses, in fact, the same rapporteurs as five years ago. the debate on the question of freedom, security and justice in the service of the citizen has almost symbolically opened this parliament and is now closing it. as chairman of the committee on constitutional affairs, i would simply like to highlight some of the points made in the report: the need to respect the standards of the codecision procedure and to adapt the internal justice sector to the lisbon treaty for those aspects that have not yet been sufficiently addressed; the crucial role of national parliaments; the need to adopt a uniform electoral law for the european elections; the need to improve the discipline of the citizens' initiative. from the institutional point of view, the coming legislature has allowed the european parliament to play a full part in the development of the area of freedom, security and justice, following the transformation of what was formerly called the 'third pillar' in political matters, which is now almost entirely subject to the community method, that is to say, the ordinary legislative procedure. the commission should therefore be encouraged to make full use of its right of initiative in this area, while at the same time responding to the questions raised by the co-legislators. any new multiannual programming will therefore have to be established by common agreement between the three institutions in accordance with article 17 (1) of the treaty on european union. in this connection, it is regrettable that the european council has decided unilaterally to give its opinion on the strategic guidelines for this programming at its meeting on 26 and 27 june next, just when the current parliament is not meeting and before the new parliament is set up. this seems to me to be contrary to the principle of loyal cooperation between the institutions, as laid down in article 4 of the treaty on european union. apart from this observation, which i make in my capacity as chairman of the committee on constitutional affairs and as rapporteur, i must nevertheless express my support for the report and hope that it will be adopted by a very large majority. there are of course some aspects which remain open and some votes from my group will perhaps indicate some distinctions but these are secondary aspects for a report which is very positive on the whole.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. in this task, parliament - this and the next - is determined to play a leading role, in a strategic dialogue respectful of the european council, but in the demanding exercise of its institutional prerogatives and its role as co-legislator. the strategic planning can be unfortunately placed in time by the european council, but we remind you that without parliament no legislation, however planned, can be implemented. the report is full of practical points. parliament called on the council to continue the process of eu accession to the european convention on human rights, to unblock the negotiations on access to documents of the institutions and to adopt the proposal for an anti-discrimination directive as soon as possible. i would like to focus on a fundamental question here: the european union is not a party to the schengen agreement. the mediterranean must be recognised as a frontier for all and a political partnership with the countries of the southern shore must be re-launched. common standards for legal entry and residence are needed; active inclusion policies based on the hard core of social citizenship rights for migrants are needed; in the event of a humanitarian crisis, a mandatory internal solidarity mechanism should be established, thus alleviating the rigidity of the dublin mechanisms. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the european union. we will be demanding on these points and we will play our full part as representatives of the european citizens.
member of the commission. - madam president, i would like to thank honourable members for this important debate. i think most of us agree that, in the area of home affairs, issues related to migration, asylum, borders and organised crime, it is obvious to most of us, including citizens, that we really need to work together. it makes no sense to have 28 different policies on all these areas if we want to do something good for our societies. it also has a very clear added european value. as has been said today, we have achieved a lot. now we must emphasise its implementation, making sure that it works in daily life and that we make full use of the new tools that we have at our disposal. the new lisbon method has been very proving very successful in this work. the full involvement of parliament has greatly enhanced the quality of our legislation and our proposals and has also given much more transparency to these important issues. now of course we also need to focus on the future. many challenges are emerging. europe needs to be a place where people can come to seek protection and that protection needs to be given by all countries in a responsible way, showing solidarity. there is much work to be done in this area. europe needs to be an open place – a place where people from outside can come to work, where we have a good integration policy and an open visa policy so that people can come easily to us to work, to do business, to visit their relatives and to enhance people-to-people contact. europe needs to be a safe place where together we fight organised crime across our borders – the very profitable leagues that sell people, weapons, drugs, etc. this is detrimental for society and individuals, but this is also very bad for the economy. the commission certainly looks forward to working with parliament and the council on all these issues. i would like personally to thank the three rapporteurs, mr[nbsp ]berlinguer, mr lópez aguilar and mr[nbsp ]casini, for the work they have done in their reports.
vice-president of the commission. - madam president, this is the moment to look back to the very beginning of the term of this parliament. remember: five years ago europe was not fully equipped to act in the interests of the citizens in the area of justice and fundamental rights and citizenship. five years ago, decisions taken by justice and home affairs ministers were not transparent. decisions were taken by the council, acting mostly alone and always behind closed doors. parliament had little say in the so-called third pillar. the opinions of the representatives of eu citizens were given little importance and were quickly dismissed. international agreements were negotiated and signed in closed chambers. parliament’s voice was ignored. legislation and international agreements were based on emotional responses to the latest scare rather than on evidence. the focus was on security, and the rights of the citizen played second or third fiddle. justice was neglected, and europe often disappointed the expectations of citizens. five years on, things have changed dramatically. the entry into force of the lisbon treaty brought a much-needed change to justice and home affairs, with the use of the ordinary legislative codecision procedure and qualified majority decisions in the council. thanks to the work of parliament, we have brought tangible benefits to our citizens. together we have re-oriented european policies, putting justice first. together we have delivered in protecting the personal data of eu citizens; in strengthening the right to free movement; in ensuring that suspected persons have a clear set of rights all over europe; in ensuring that victims are protected from offenders; in facilitating the life of european businesses, with efficient and simple rules in civil and commercial justice – our justice for growth agenda. i think we can be proud of what we have achieved together in these past five years. over the last years we have taken a number of small steps that, seen together today, constitute a giant leap forward on the road towards a true european area of justice. but the journey is not over. we need to build more trust, promote more mobility and contribute better to growth. and so for the next parliamentary term, i look forward to seeing the consolidation of an eu system of justice built on trust; bringing together national justice systems; innovative and pragmatic ways of getting this done; and making sure citizens and businesses get objective, reliable, independent, effective justice. i can also see a future justice commissioner being a fully-fledged eu justice minister: an eu justice minister who builds bridges and strengthens trust between europe’s different national legal orders in the interest of citizens and businesses. we should be as ambitious when it comes to eu justice policy as we are in resolving the banking crisis. our citizens deserve nothing less.
president-in-office of the council. - madam president, i can fully agree with what has just been said by vice-president reding: we can be proud of what has been achieved in the last years. just let me remind everybody that the portfolio of the justice commissioner was only established in 2010. so i think that we all agree now on the importance of ensuring that there is a follow-up to the stockholm programme, and the strategic guidelines which the european council will adopt in june are a vital tool in assisting our legislative and operational planning. a number of speakers have underlined the importance of parliament having a say in the process. i agree. while it is for the european council itself to adopt the guidelines, it should not be doing this in isolation from the wider discussion and debates, not least those in this parliament. so i think that with all that has been agreed and through parliamentʼs own-initiative report too, this parliament is indeed associated on its own initiative with the process leading towards the establishment of new strategic guidelines. and the rights of this parliament and the powers of this parliament will be truly respected during the co-legislation process as was the case during the current period of the stockholm programme. the issues that are covered by the stockholm programme will of course be in the epicentre of the debate in the campaign period for the next european elections. i think those of you taking part in this campaign will be able to have a lot of arguments to prove and inform our citizens that a lot has been achieved in the past years. a lot has been achieved in order to improve security, to make the lives of our citizens, of our businesses easier. and of course mutual recognition is a very important fundamental in helping to make the everyday lives of our citizens easier. so with this i think that the issues of home affairs and justice can be an area during this campaign where we can prove to our citizens that european integration brings a positive contribution.
the rapporteur. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the debate this afternoon has revealed an important fact, namely that the issue of justice, although it does not interest the media and many of our colleagues - but this seems almost natural to me - has become an important issue in the european union. the lisbon treaty opened this way and the identification of the stockholm programme has made it possible to continue. i very much agree with commissioner reding when she tells us that important measures have been adopted which affect the daily lives of european citizens, which do not make the headlines and which are not often the subject of political interest, but which are the basis of european citizenship, whereby citizens feel european because a part of their lives is supported, promoted and regulated in a positive way. this was the stockholm programme. we have added an additional consideration: it is not enough to produce rules if they are not sufficiently implemented. there is a season now about the implementation of the rules that are produced, the implementation, the citizens having the concrete benefits of what is defined by the legal framework. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the rapporteur. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, mr president-in-office of the council, commissioners, i have already said in my opening remarks why this report deserves a broad consensus. i now reply to some of the objections raised during the debate, particularly on the question of the european public prosecutor, which is already provided for in the treaty of lisbon. the lisbon treaty should also be implemented in this area, at a time when the globalisation of everything, including the difficulty of research, requires a concentration of research in one area. it is not a question of judging, but of gathering evidence, which is often very difficult to gather because the world has become global. secondly, as regards the other issues of justice - and i am speaking not only as chairman of the afco committee and rapporteur but also as an expert on justice in my judicial profession - i must say that the main problem today is the speed of the process. hamlet already complained, as a great hand that could push him to suicide, the length of the trials. this applies to criminal proceedings as well, but above all to civil proceedings. we must also speed up trade processes precisely in order to achieve the internal market better, to increase the possibility of trade and thus, ultimately, also to boost growth. of course, in this respect, it is not the substantive law that has primacy but procedural law. so by saying that commercial law is above criminal law and procedural law above substantive law, i am once again giving my consent to this important report.
mr president, just a little information to help us understand the text. as the subject of the text says 'request for the defence of immunities and privileges', i just wanted to know whether by voting in favour, and therefore voting in favour, we are maintaining mr borghezio's immunity or are revoking it.
the agenda includes the report by paweł zalewski, on behalf of the committee on international trade, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the reduction or elimination of customs duties on goods originating in ukraine (com ((2014) 0166 - c7-0103/2014 - 2014/0090 ((cod)) (a7-0238/2014).
my fellow citizens! provisional tariff concessions for ukrainian exports are equally important as an economic and political tool to show the ukrainian people that we are a reliable partner worth committing to for the future. the european union is often described as an economic giant and a political juggernaut. this is a chance to show that we can also be politically decisive and take the necessary decisions quickly and effectively. by opening the door to ukrainian exports, we will give a significant boost to ukrainian businesses, help create new jobs. tariffs on 95% of ukrainian industrial goods will be abolished without delay. and if that happens, the positive effects will be felt by ukrainian companies in the coming weeks. the temporary relief will be in force until 1 november this year. i hope that by then a free trade agreement will have been signed, which will bring about eur 500 million a year to the ukrainian economy, help modernise the ukrainian economy and build strong trade links. in the event of a delay in signature, it must be possible to extend the tariff concessions. i would also like to point out that the tariff concessions are accompanied by specific rules of origin for goods in order to prevent any third country from misusing the european union's assistance to ukraine. i was positive that our own producers would also be protected in important sectors such as agriculture. however, even in this area, tariffs will be abolished for 82% of ukrainian agricultural exports and partial concessions will be granted to the rest. this will be a real and tangible assistance which will significantly improve the economic situation of ukraine. thank you.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, we all know the reasons why ukraine did not ratify the association agreement last november and the strong influence that russia had on this decision. the aid package, presented on 11 march by the european commission, is a clear signal from the eu that it is willing to support ukraine in this difficult transition phase to foster the country's political and economic reforms. we are operating in a clear and dramatic emergency dictated by ever-changing political events. i have always been in favour of a comprehensive free trade agreement within the association agreement, in which the trade side is as important as the commitment by ukraine to adopt social and environmental standards and to establish an independent judicial system. i think it is very important to have included in article 5 the safeguard clause to be used in the event of serious commercial risks to union products. we must not and cannot let down our guard in monitoring human, social and environmental rights, which are particularly sensitive issues already at the time when the association agreement was negotiated. that is precisely the direction taken by the two amendments in the plenary, which i have tabled with other colleagues in my group and which i hope will be supported in the house in the vote tomorrow.
member of the commission. - madam president, i would like to thank all the members who spoke in this debate. let me say a couple of things very clearly. i have sympathy for the amendment introduced by the socialist group. however, the problem is that, if this amendment were to be adopted, we would be forced to have a trilogue and would not be able to finalise the procedure before the end of the mandate of this parliament, which is in fact going to be dissolved within a little less than two weeks – not next week, but the week after in strasbourg. that is the reason why i cannot support the amendment. when you read in the amendment that they are giving you, as the commissioner, unlimited powers, that is very attractive, but the problem is that, given the time constraints, it would not be a good solution. on the other hand, the dcfta is part of the association agreement so, together with the political provisions – the so-called association agreement – this makes one single instrument. so there is very clearly a link between the chapters that have already been signed and those that will have to be signed once the elections have taken place and a new government is being constituted. there is very clearly a political link; whether there is a legal link is open to dispute because, in answer to mr scholz, there is not yet a treaty that has been ratified. we can only resolve that with a temporary instrument such as this one which is in fact – how i can i put this – a forecast of what the dcfta will mean for ukraine. therefore, i must insist that parliament does not adopt this argument so that we can proceed; so that after parliament has voted tomorrow, the council can adopt the provisions as soon as possible and they can then be put into practice, hopefully in may. that is also my answer to mr demesmaeker. i have a lot of sympathy for the argument but, given the time constraints, we cannot take any other route than to adopt the commission proposal without amendment. mr scholz asked why this was not done in october. i would have to say that this is an argument that i do not really understand because what happened in october was that the association agreement, together with the dcfta, were ready to be signed and at the very last moment – all of a sudden – the ukrainian government said that it was no longer going to sign it. this was rather surprising because the commission had been negotiating the dcfta with the government led by mr azarov and president yanukovych. we were not negotiating with the current government. we negotiated with the previous government and it was that government that in fact refused to sign the agreement. so i do not see how we could, at that time, unilaterally have decided to put into place these trade preferences. we had no counterpart. we are doing it unilaterally now but we have a counterpart that is ready to sign the association agreement and has already done so, with its political chapters. so this is a completely new situation. as soon as there was a new situation, the commission took the initiative of proposing to the european council that it go that way. that is why we are having this discussion tonight and why we are asking you to give your wholehearted support to this proposal.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 3 april 2014.
the agenda includes the report by inés ayala sender, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on the annual report 2012 on the protection of the european union's financial interests fight against fraud (2013/2132(ini)) (a7-0195/2014).
in writing. the report brings out some striking data, which confirm the long-standing political battle of the northern league for the independence of padania against fraud, counterfeiting, smuggling of processed tobacco, not to mention the super-scandal of the widespread scams in the south of italy on european funds traditionally divided between political clans and mafia clans. in the cigarette smuggling sector alone, the damage from lack of tax revenue amounts to something like 11 billion euros a year. unfortunately, the report does not say that much of this trafficking is carried out through the highly efficient network of organised crime known as the 'turkish mafia'. the same turkish mafia which, like alice in wonderland, commissioner malmström in a very recent reply to a question of mine confessed that she did not know what ramifications it had in the eu member states: that's some surveillance. incredibly, the same report acknowledges that the call for member states to provide "complete and reliable information on the recipients of eu funds managed by member states" has not been met: shouldn't we ask the head of cosa nostra, totò riina, who is certainly more knowledgeable about the matter?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, electronic payment instruments certainly have advantages, first and foremost a clear traceability which is essential to combat the scourge of tax evasion. i am therefore in favour of rules to develop these systems if the benefit is for the citizens and consumers, not for the banks and financial giants who run this business. a clever solution could be, for example, legislation which makes it easier from the tax point of view to use cards as a means of payment, which is already being tried in some countries. if citizens can have tangible benefits they will be incentivized and the state would have an immediate return from the decrease in black. i am also in favour of reducing interbank fees, provided that the costs are not passed on to consumers. there is a substantial duopoly in the world at the moment which is certainly not good for competition. it is unthinkable to have these services free of charge, but it is right that i know clearly what their actual cost is and what benefits i can get, so that i can make an informed choice.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to say at the outset, as vice-chairman of the delegation for relations with iran, that i am absolutely opposed to this optimism which has been leaking for some time now. an optimism which led the delegation to a trip to tehran, without the participation of the dissenting european people's party, and which only produced publicity for the isolation of the current iranian government, which brought lady ashton to iran and which already provides for the presence here of a delegation of iranian parliamentarians. we are faced with a mutual relationship of hypocrisy. the current president is trying to prove that he is more moderate than the previous ones and he is not. other colleagues have indicated what the attitude is towards the civil and humanitarian principles which do not apply in that country, and we pretend, with equal hypocrisy, to consider this government to be moderate in order to find instrumental economic relations. when you lose sight of principles and think only of economics, you have the collapse not only of countries but of civilizations themselves. i hope that the european parliament will firmly uphold the principles for which it lives and for which it was born in that country, by forcing it to make the radical change that is necessary in the interests of the iranian people themselves.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about iran, we must not forget the 3,000 refugees who fled persecution in their own country and who have been held in de facto captivity, first at camp ashraf and now at camp liberty. despite the fact that i and many other colleagues have raised the unacceptable situation of these people, last september, while some of them were still in camp ashraf, there was an armed attack which led to the massacre of 52 innocent refugees from the pmoi opposition movement, probably with the complicity of iraqi forces. their bodies have disappeared, they have not been returned to their families, but even the iraqi government, without a proper burial, has hidden them in an unknown place. during that attack, seven hostages were also taken, including six women, of whom nothing is known. these are all crimes against humanity. i do not understand why the high representative, baroness ashton, did not take a position of strong denunciation and condemnation of the iranian regime and the iraqi government, but instead went to pay her respects to rouhani with her head covered.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, these dual-use items are a real problem in many respects. they're the new frontier of gun control, not being weapons but easily becoming them. a market which is complex and which, among other things, is constantly changing because of constant technological change. just think of the aspect that we as the alliance of liberals and democrats for europe consider very important of cyber surveillance capabilities, which could end up in the hands of despotic regimes that could use them to close the spaces of free expression on the net. the modernisation of our rules, which, as mr leichtfried has said, are in fact different even for different member states, is therefore essential and we look forward to both the commission's communication and the legislative proposal, possibly within the year rather than 2015. we see no political reasons to wait until 2015. it is therefore important to have a clear idea and to work on three main aspects: zero tolerance and hence prohibitions on the export of products that may result in cyber attacks or site closures; ex ante control also for products with a lower risk when exported to sensitive countries, risk countries; and finally, the ability to easily update our provisions as we implement them, because once we decide something, we can be sure that dictatorships or terrorists will quickly update their capacity to innovate as well.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the balcytis report which analyses the effectiveness of european social fund spending on elderly workers. i believe that the commission should give greater weight to the fight against age discrimination of older workers, using its prerogatives within the framework of the existing legal instruments, in order to combat the most obvious forms of age discrimination in some member states and in some sectors of the economy.
in writing. - the period we are living through is not the most prosperous for european families and workers. i know how dramatic the situation is with regard to youth employment in europe and particularly in my own country, italy. if strong action is to be taken in this area, i believe that older workers must not be forgotten and that they must be allowed to remain active in the labour market. the ageing of the population, changing working conditions, the lack of incentives for early retirement, as well as the financial crisis and changes in production patterns, are all contributing to making life more difficult for very old workers: the european union must intervene effectively. i consider the european social fund to be a key financial instrument and its objective to help member states in achieving the objectives of the eu's policy for employment and social inclusion to be shared. i therefore believe that the rapporteur's remarks are aimed at a better application of the fund and a more correct use of it. that is why i am voting in favour of the report.
in writing. - the motion for a resolution on the effectiveness of esf expenditure for older workers refers to the special report of the european court of auditors entitled 'are there any instruments to monitor the effectiveness of european social fund expenditure for older workers?' i agree with the arguments put forward by the rapporteur, mr balčytis, particularly on the need for greater transparency in the use of the esf for older workers and the need for member states to provide for and respect the same age groups when defining the category of older workers.
in writing. - having regard to the european court of auditors' special report no 25/2012 entitled 'are there tools to monitor the effectiveness of european social fund spending on older workers?', i voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - if europe is to meet the challenges posed by the financial crisis and by certain social trends, such as the ageing of the population and changing working conditions, it must be courageous and react strongly. the european social fund is a key financial instrument in this context in achieving european objectives on employment and social inclusion. the implementation of the esf should therefore respect the eu financial regulation and the fundamental principles of sound financial management. i also agree that the elderly population must remain an active part of society, but a coherent and uniform definition of the age group that is considered 'older' is needed so that a coordinated approach can be taken across the member states. in this sense, these considerations should be extended to all the barriers that hinder the opportunities for active ageing and the support of lifelong learning, in particular the acquisition of new skills and technical competencies.
in writing. i voted in favour of mr borghezio's immunity.
in writing. - i regret that a colleague and member of my own party should be unjustly deprived of a parliamentary prerogative for reasons of no consequence. it is a prerogative which protects the freedom of the parliamentary mandate and should not be revoked in the name of a mere crime of opinion.
in writing. - having regard to the proposal for a european parliament decision on the request for the defence of the immunity and privileges of mario borghezio, i voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - i voted against this report because although i support completely the need to urge russia to undertake a credible, thorough and independent investigation into sergei magnitskyʼs death in pre-trial detention, and to bring all those responsible to justice, i believe that ordering a visa restriction for people not condemned by a tribunal would be inconsistent with our own legal standards. moreover i do not support the fact that there is a list of people suggested by this parliament without any explanation as to the criteria or the reasoning behind it.
in writing. - i believe that when faced with cases of forced detention in inhumane conditions, of deliberate neglect and torture, such as that of sergei magnitsky, there is nothing left but to join the chorus of solidarity and mourning for the death of a professional who pursued the truth to the end. i therefore consider the rapporteur's requests to draw up a common eu list of officials responsible for the death, the subsequent judicial cover-up and the continuing and prolonged harassment of the mother and widow to be justified. an immediate visa ban and asset freeze on the eu for those on the list makes sense to me, given the sergei magnitsky rule of law accountability act, which was proposed bipartisan by the us congress and signed by barack obama in december 2012. finally, i believe that visa restrictions and other restrictive measures can be a strong political signal from the european union and therefore a necessary and legitimate foreign policy instrument.
in writing. - the united states has already taken a clear position on the case, calling a law known as magnitsky a law that bans russian officials who are allegedly involved in the murder and more generally in the violation of fundamental rights. the case of the death of the russian lawyer, famous for his fight against corruption, has rightly sparked debate in europe as well. the call i can make to the russian authorities is to get to the truth quickly with an investigation that identifies and punishes all those responsible and clarifies the facts without any shadows. without the full truth, the eu will hardly be able to avoid taking specific measures against the people involved in this affair.
in writing. - the european parliament, by adopting the ojuland report, intended to make recommendations to the council concerning the murder of sergei magnitsky, a russian lawyer employed by the american firm firestone duncan, who was investigating cases of alleged corruption by certain russian companies. the council is invited to draw up a common list of officials responsible for the death of sergei magnitsky, to impose and enforce an eu-wide visa ban on such officials and to freeze any financial assets that they or their families may hold in the european union.
in writing. - having regard to the proposal for a european parliament recommendation to the council on the application of common visa restrictions to russian officials involved in the sergei magnitsky case, i voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - the arrest and imprisonment of sergei magnitsky is a clear and serious violation of fundamental human rights in russia, which, as a member of the council of europe, has committed itself to full respect for fundamental rights and the rule of law. it is therefore necessary to emphasize that the union must continue to pursue a firm, energetic and comprehensive policy towards russia. i agree with the decision to draw up a common eu list of officials responsible for the death of sergei magnitsky and the subsequent judicial cover-up, as well as the harassment of the deceased's mother and widow, in order to apply a series of sanctions, first and foremost the visa ban and the freezing of financial assets in europe.
in writing. - i fully support this report because we need to strengthen international efforts aimed at ensuring all human rights agreed under un conventions. with this text we reiterate our full support for the international criminal court and we urge the eu to continue fighting against the use of the death penalty and to strongly support the moratorium as a step towards abolition. as for bilateral relations between eu and un, it is essential to support actively a comprehensive reform of the united nations system, and especially its security council, in order to strengthen its legitimacy, regional representation, accountability and effectiveness. we also need to work towards the goal of the eu having a seat in an enlarged unsc.
in writing. - i welcome and welcome the proposal for a recommendation to the council on the european parliament's request to discuss certain key issues at the 69th session of the united nations general assembly, particularly with regard to human rights and democracy, two of the founding values of the european union, and the principles and objectives of european external action. the proposal addresses a number of issues and considers places where respect for and protection of human rights have been undermined in recent years by conflicts, undemocratic laws or bills. in particular, i share the fight against torture and other ill-treatment, the fight against the use of the death penalty and support for a moratorium as a step towards its abolition, the protection of women and children during conflicts and the fight to end impunity for acts of sexual violence perpetrated during wars. finally, i consider climate change to be important, as do other issues, and i believe that the european union should play a stronger and more 'single-minded' role in the united nations.
in writing. - from the point of view of international policy, the priority is the difficult situation in syria. the un can take effective action by working for an immediate cessation of violence and focusing on humanitarian efforts. the european union's diplomatic efforts must be implemented jointly. from a social point of view, however, an important deadline is approaching, such as the post-2015 development agenda. it is essential to pursue a coherent approach with a single, global framework and set of objectives, which recognises the link between sustainable development and poverty eradication and includes the promotion of peace and security, democratic governance, the rule of law, gender equality and human rights for all.
in writing. - the work of the 69th session of the united nations general assembly should be taken into account, particularly as regards human rights, economic development and democracy. there are still several world conflicts that are not moving towards a final phase. in addition, there are difficulties in ensuring respect for human rights and the rights of the most vulnerable and needy sections of the population in various countries. many proposals were also made on the digital agenda, the processing of personal data and respect for privacy. the european union has already moved in this direction, but much more needs to be done to move forward and improve the effectiveness of our political action.
in writing. - the european parliament's recommendation to the council of 2 april 2014 on the 69th session of the united nations general assembly addresses issues related to human rights, democracy, peace and security, the responsibility to protect women and children and the post-2015 development agenda. i supported the recommendation of my colleague alexander graf lambsdorff, as i believe that it is necessary to promote the integration of human rights and fundamental freedoms in the work of the 69th session of the united nations general assembly and to improve cooperation between the eeas (european external action service) and the member states.
in writing. - having regard to the proposal for a european parliament recommendation to the council on the 69th session of the united nations general assembly, the proposal for a recommendation to the council (b7-0014/2013) and the opinion of the committee on development, i voted in favour of the proposal,
in writing. - the millennium development goals are a goal the eu is constantly working towards, and promoting them with its international partners. many efforts have been made in different areas, but further concerted and global action is essential, as these are objectives which concern the entire planet and which can only be achieved by a joint effort, led by the richer countries and with the support of the poorer countries. i agree that in the new framework the eradication of poverty must remain the leitmotiv, alongside the fight against inequalities and the promotion of sustainable development. on this last point, i would like to stress once again that access to food is a universal and inalienable human right and should therefore not be regarded as a basic good. food production is also linked to the need to promote greater environmental sustainability and, more generally, to the fight for sustainable development that takes into account environmental protection needs, which in turn are linked to international stability and peace, increasingly put at risk by non-state threats, in which energy, water and desertification scarcity play a key role.
in writing. - i support this report because it highlights the importance of having free european media, in particular a financially sustainable and independent broadcasting service able to promote eu democratic values. i consider as being of fundamental importance informing the public about the policies and goals of the eu, notably by enhancing understanding of the issues that unite and divide europe and so bringing eu citizens closer together. moreover i believe in the need to establish a coherent eu media broadcasting strategy in the context of the eu’s external relations by promoting freedom of expression and media pluralism and by strengthening democracy and human rights in europe and in third countries.
in writing. - the importance of communications as a means of disseminating the european framework of values of freedom, the centrality of the individual, the rule of law and the social market economy has a long and noble history, the subject of a rich strand of research. it is impossible to underestimate the importance of initiatives such as those of radio free europe and vatican radio in the darkest pages of the european story of the 20th century. today, the proliferation of audiovisual offerings is increasing the segmentation of audiences and cultures, with the associated risks for identity based on a content of citizenship inherent in the european acquis. moreover, the continued importance of television communication in the contemporary age is amply documented by the proliferation of broadcasters aimed at diasporas and foreign communities abroad, often funded by states as an effective tool of soft power. just think of the challenge of launching al-jazeera english in the us market and the social, cultural and even legal implications of these initiatives. the reasons for a strengthening of european audiovisual communication are well summarized in points f) to l). euronews has all the characteristics and potential to play an important role in the eu's international relations. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. - the use of audiovisual media as a diplomatic tool is another opportunity for europe to make itself known and identified as a positive actor on the world stage. i voted in favour of this recommendation because i agree with the need to promote new strategies for free, comprehensive and professional information which has a global reach, which overcomes national and european barriers and reaches countries where the press can be manipulated, ensuring objective information for all. the project with euronews is proof that this can be a winning idea and as such should be continued and expanded. ensuring greater awareness and an objective understanding of the facts must be a priority for the union because only in this way can foreign policies of a certain kind be pursued without running the risk of being misunderstood, or of promoting common objectives whose greater visibility guarantees greater participation.
in writing. - euronews, "our television", is a key communication resource. the numbers are significant, with coverage in 155 countries in 13 different languages reaching 400 million households. it is an important tool for informing and stimulating a constructive debate on europe. the citizens, who are now more distant from europe than ever, are being brought closer together largely through the media and therefore also through television. the proposals for a greater presence of euronews in brussels, in the palaces where decisions are taken, are acceptable. beyond this, i think we need to strengthen the flow of news and information through the web. social networks are now a direct link between the institutions and the citizens.
in writing. - having regard to the proposal for a european parliament recommendation to the council, the commission and the european external action service on the role of audiovisual communication as a means of representing the eu and its values, i voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - i believe that a coherent and robust eu audiovisual communication strategy should be established in the context of the union's external relations, in order to enhance freedom of expression and media pluralism as instruments for strengthening democracy and supporting and strengthening democracy and human rights, both in europe and in third countries. in this respect, i think it is a good idea to integrate this strategy into the common foreign and security policy, since one of the main objectives of the latter is the promotion of the eu's founding values at international level.
in writing. - the aim of this proposal is to introduce measures to protect public health and the environment by regulating and reducing the noise level of motor vehicles. in line with the vote in the envi committee, i believe that all the main elements touched upon in the agreed text are in the right direction and are important for achieving the objective set. i believe it is essential to apply common limit values for vehicle noise, and to give the commission the possibility of carrying out an impact assessment of the labelling conditions relating to noise and air pollution levels and information for consumers. at the same time, it is necessary to provide for mandatory provisions aimed at protecting the blind, such as the sound alarm system for vehicles. finally, in line with parliament's position, i think it is essential to focus on the technological development of the quality of roads, improving the road surface so that the new materials can contribute to a significant reduction in vehicle noise levels.
in writing. - it does not seem to be the time to add burdens to the automotive industry sector and increasing its production costs would further slow down the recovery of a market which provides employment to many families. that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the ouzky report and the agreement reached on the noise level of motor vehicles. the adoption of this proposal will entail new limits on the noise emitted by road vehicles in order to better protect the health and well-being of citizens who are currently suffering from increasing and unsustainable levels of noise pollution. the proposal could certainly have been more ambitious with regard to noise limits, but i am happy that this agreement already sets out a clear pathway in different phases with increasing intermediate reduction targets (in 2016, 2020 and 2026 respectively) which will allow industry to adapt while fully respecting the priority need to protect consumers and the environment. the development of a new test procedure for measuring vehicle noise in accordance with the international standards of the united nations is also of importance.
in writing. - i have approved the text presented by the commission because i believe that the issue of noise pollution should be given greater importance. the constant increase in road traffic has as a natural consequence a more than proportionate increase in environmental and noise pollution. noise pollution from vehicle traffic has a very negative impact on the well-being of european citizens. in this connection, i very much welcome the introduction of noise emission limits for vehicles which will be put on the market in the near future. these regulations cover the entire automotive sector, including the tyre industries and road maintenance conditions. i think the implementation of the directive is equally well structured with a time-bound agenda that includes several steps, not imposing excessive costs on producers and a gradual improvement of conditions over a reasonable period of time (2016-2026). the directive, being very forward-looking, also provides for the imposition of minimum noise limits for electric and hybrid cars in order to protect the blind. overall, i am very pleased with this proposal and i am sure that it will have a very positive impact on the health and well-being of many european citizens.
in writing. - parliament's legislative resolution amends directive 2007/46/ec with a view to adopting the regulation on the sound level of motor vehicles and replacement silencing devices. the purpose of this proposal for a regulation is to ensure a high level of protection of health and the environment and to safeguard the internal market in motor vehicles. i supported mr ouzky's proposal because i believe that it is appropriate to harmonise the legislation of the member states on the permissible sound levels of motor vehicles in order to combat the harmful effects on health resulting from noise pollution, but i also believe that it is necessary to ensure clear conditions for car manufacturers in the european union.
in writing. - the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council, drawn up by the commission, aims to protect public health and the environment by means of measures to reduce the noise level of motor vehicles. in november 2013, a second reading agreement was reached and the main elements of the agreed text are as follows: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of foodstuffs for sale to the ultimate consumer. in the light of the foregoing, i have voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - the proposal strikes a good balance in several areas, first and foremost the limit values for vehicle noise, but also in labelling and consumer information and in vehicle audible warning systems (avas), which ensure the protection of the blind and other vulnerable people. finally, on the last important issue in this field, road transport, i agree that the commission should draw up guidelines on information and best practice on the evolution of the technological quality of roads.
in writing. - the report on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive aims to amend council directive 64/432/eec as regards the computerised databases which form part of the surveillance networks of the member states. the proposal for a directive is based on a system of registration of bovine animals and a labelling mechanism for beef and beef products. the reason why it is considered necessary to repeal council regulation (ec) no 820/97 and to update the existing legislation is the desire to set up ad hoc computerised databases containing information on bovine animals located in the respective national territories, as these databases do not currently take into account the progress made in the field of electronic identification of bovine animals. in line with the rapporteur, i think it is right to amend directive 64/432/eec, in line with the computerized databases, in order to align the principles of data collection in question by making them compatible with the two methods of identifying bovine animals. i welcome the clarifications proposed by the rapporteur to improve and make the wording of the text more specific.
in writing. i voted against this text which seeks to abolish the voluntary labelling system for beef. promoting informed purchasing by providing harmonised and certified supplementary information means rewarding the fairest and most transparent producers and protecting the health of european citizens. in the face of the scandals that have engulfed the sector, i am convinced that product traceability is the most important guarantee that the supply chain can offer consumers.
in writing. - i voted in favour because the proposal in question is at least fundamental to creating legislation suitable for including and regulating the electronic labelling of bovine animals, already provided for by regulation (ec) no 1760/2000, since the member states have set up special 'computerised databases' containing information on bovine animals located in their respective territories, but to date these databases do not take into account the advent of the technology of electronic identification of bovine animals. the rapporteur calls on the commission to include in the proposal, in addition to the procedures for electronic identification and related databases, also a classification of the tools used for labelling, in order to create a simple, clear and uniform framework and to minimise the burden on breeders.
in writing. - the proposal for a european parliament and council directive amending council directive 64/432/eec as regards 'computerised databases' containing information on bovine animals located in their respective territories, which form part of the surveillance networks of the member states. i also voted in favour of the proposal, considering that the revision of regulation (ec) no 1760/2000 is a direct consequence and favours the development of this new technology.
in writing. - the computerized databases for information on bovine animals located in the territory of the member states are now obsolete, not taking into account the advent of the technology of electronic identification of bovine animals. the amendment of the provisions can therefore lead to an improvement of the system as a whole and ensure greater protection for consumers and producers.
in writing. - mr president, it is essential for the european union to have a regulatory framework and adequate instruments to ensure the effective exercise of the union's rights in international trade agreements, in order to safeguard its economic interests quickly and effectively and to discourage infringements, otherwise temporary measures of defensive retaliation will be implemented as an extreme solution. this will also help to build the eu's credibility in the wto and other international trade agreements and to convince trading partners to play by the rules. it is also appropriate for the commission and the european parliament to establish a structured and systematic exchange of information on the handling of commercial disputes, including the countermeasures to be taken and the reasons underlying them, as they could have significant repercussions on specific european industries.
in writing. - the european union currently lacks a horizontal legislative framework to enforce its rights under other international trade agreements. the instrument proposed by the commission is therefore designed to assert the legitimate trade rights of the european union, to strengthen its credibility and, last but not least, to draw the attention of our trading partners to the need to comply with the rules laid down in international trade agreements, in particular for those countries which have been responsible for infringements. this does not mean that the european union should resort more frequently to rebalancing measures, but that this proposal will help to present a credible and concrete threat to international partners, thereby dissuading them from taking action which does not respect the rules and is detrimental to fair competition in the internal market. in my view, the proposal for a regulation will make a positive contribution to the opening up of new markets for the european union. finally, i agree with the rapporteur that it is appropriate to ask that this proposal should contain a structured and systematic exchange of information between the commission and the european parliament, without this entailing delays in the decision-making process.
in writing. - the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the exercise of the union's rights to enforce and respect international trade rules aims to create an instrument enabling the eu to enforce its trade rights in the wto as well as in other international trade agreements. the aim is to strengthen the eu's role vis-à-vis its trading partners to ensure that they also comply with the rules laid down in trade agreements. moreover, this instrument should also aim at the possible opening of new markets for the eu itself. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that in emergency situations the eu must protect itself with temporary measures of defensive retaliation against a country which has committed an infringement. therefore, it is a rule that is considered within the framework of the rules of multilateral dispute settlement (wto). finally, i agree with the rapporteur that the eu should extend trade policy measures to the services sector as a growing economic sector which helps to strengthen the eu's credibility.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report which sets out in black and white some of the important principles which the european commission will have to follow in applying international trade rules and which fall to the eu as a result of its accession to the wto.
in writing. - i have already had the opportunity to speak in favour of an instrument to defend our rights in trade, without which the union would be unarmed even in the face of repeated violations, and in any case in a relatively weak position when it comes to confronting counterparts who are notoriously assertive in this field. moreover, the case law cited by the commission alone amply demonstrates the need for a horizontal instrument, which is easy to use in a timely manner, without prejudice to the union's commitment to the principles of free trade. in the commission's proposal, i believe that the scope (as set out in article 3 of the regulation) and the possible measures (as set out in article 5 below) meet the requirements outlined by the rapporteur. i also support the applicability of the measures to the services sector, which, according to the world bank, now represents between 50% and 60% of the gdp of the countries of the union, an area in which trade with partners outside the eu is now a structural feature and is also essential in areas of strict public interest, such as security, networks and health systems. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. - i welcome the work done on the following report and i vote in favour. i appreciate the legitimate purpose of the regulation proposed by the european commission and of the report by my colleague: support and incentive to assert the european union's trade rights, to build its credibility and to convince our trading partners to play by the rules as laid down in trade agreements. i also share the strategy of this proposal, which is to open up new markets for the eu and bring the decision-making process into line with the lisbon treaty. i agree with the rapporteur that the use of countermeasures, countermeasures or retaliatory measures should always be taken as an extreme measure, but i appreciate that this proposal will facilitate their possible use. i also think it is a reasonable request for a more structured and systematic exchange of information between the commission and parliament to speed up the decision-making process. finally, i agree with the rapporteur's request to extend the range of trade policy measures to the services sector, and not just to goods and public procurement as proposed by the commission.
in writing. - the european union does not have a horizontal legislative framework to enforce its rights under the wto and other international trade agreements. in a global context where the number of retaliatory actions is increasing, the proposed instrument is designed for the legitimate purpose of enforcing eu trade rights. this proposal would give europe greater authority and means of protecting our products. i vote in favour of the motion.
in writing. - i believe that the european union must as soon as possible establish a horizontal legislative framework which will enable it to be more effective in asserting its rights in the wto and other international trade agreements. in a global context where the number of retaliatory actions is constantly increasing, i think it is increasingly essential that the european union has a set of trade policy measures in place so that it can assert its trade rights, consolidate its credibility and convince its trading partners to play by the rules.
in writing. - the european union does not have a legislative instrument to enforce its rights under the world trade organisation and other international trade agreements. the union is currently monitoring trade policy developments on a case-by-case basis, using ad hoc instruments adopted by the council on the basis of a commission proposal. the report by mr rinaldi, which i supported with my vote, aims to provide the union with a single legal instrument to defend its interests in trade matters in a rapid, efficient and flexible manner, in order to encourage the european union's trading partners to respect the rules laid down in international agreements. in addition, the regulation on the exercise of the union's rights to enforce and observe trade rules provides for a strategy aimed at opening up new markets for the european union.
in writing. - international trade is certainly one of the most significant and problematic aspects of european union policy. all too often we are forced to accept agreements which are not in our interests but which risk further destroying our productive economy. the last example we voted on today concerns rice imports from bangladesh. this text on the application and observance of international trade rules does, however, finally provide useful measures which i hope will at least limit the damage caused by the decisions taken in brussels. the main instrument introduced allows a european country which considers itself to be harmed the right to take, as a last resort, temporary measures of defensive retaliation against another country which has been responsible for infringements and violations of the rules laid down by the world trade organisation. it will certainly not resolve the great disparities we have created, but it is certainly a signal that is going in the right direction, and that is therefore right to support.
in writing. - the european union currently lacks a horizontal legislative framework to enforce its rights under the wto and other international trade agreements. the proposal is part of a strategy to open up new markets for the european union, to bring the decision-making process into line with the lisbon treaty and to provide for a structured and systematic exchange of information between the commission and parliament. in the light of the foregoing, i have voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - the european union currently lacks a horizontal legislative framework to enforce its rights under the wto and other international trade agreements. the proposed instrument is therefore most welcome as a means of enforcing the eu's trade rights and convincing its trading partners to respect the rules of international agreements. in recent years the eu has had to resort to retaliation to enforce its position, but this is certainly not the only course the eu wants to take, and indeed it intends to call on all its partners to act in a correct manner and to build mutual trust. the eu must therefore have credible and timely tools to encourage trading partners to behave properly. finally, i agree with the rapporteur that the range of trade policy measures available to the union should also include the services sector.
in writing. - following the adoption of council regulation (eec) no 3491/90 on imports of rice originating in bangladesh in 1990, bangladesh was granted preferential import arrangements under which import duties on a certain quantity of semi-milled rice were reduced. in addition, restrictions and limited transitional quotas for rice and sugar were progressively extended and finally abolished in 2009. in line with the proposal of the commission and the rapporteur, i am voting in favour of this report to repeal regulation (eec) no 3491/90 and replace it with a new regulation as the current one does not appear to have a significant impact on bangladesh's import arrangements with the eu. the additional amendments proposed by the rapporteur are aimed at making the regulation more coherent in order to avoid any misunderstanding of the legislation governing rice imports from bangladesh, and to align it with the general provisions of article 208 tfeu and the general objectives of sustainable economic development, decent working conditions and poverty eradication in bangladesh.
in writing. - i did not intend to vote in favour of the murphy report on the proposal for a regulation on rice imports from bangladesh. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to provide the necessary financial support for the development of the agricultural sector.
in writing. - i welcome the report by my colleague and the commission's proposal to bring council regulation (eec) no 3491/90 into line with the system of implementing and delegated acts subsequent to lisbon and introduced by articles 290 and 291 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union by repealing the regulation and replacing it with a new one. since the old regulation no longer affects bangladesh's import arrangements with the eu, since all imports of rice and sugar from the least developed countries are now fully liberalised, i think the proposed repeal makes sense, and for these reasons i am voting in favour. i also think that the amendments proposed by the rapporteur are sensible because they are consistent with the commercial legislation and because they reflect the changes that will be introduced by the two omnibuses on trade. i particularly welcome the proposals to include a provision on committee procedure in the regulation, to limit the delegated powers conferred on the commission to a period of five years, to stress the need for a more consistent approach in relation to the deposit of a security and to ensure that the regulation is in line with the general objectives of sustainable economic development.
in writing. - i voted against because i believe that this type of agreement is harmful to the eu and particularly to italy, as reciprocity is not guaranteed. moreover, this vote comes at a time of particular difficulty for italian rice farmers, who are suffering from the absence of duties on imports from some asian countries such as cambodia and myanmar following the implementation of the everything but arms (eba) agreement.
in writing. - as regards the commission proposal on imports of rice originating in bangladesh, it is important to repeal regulation (eec) no 3491/90 and replace it with a new regulation. i therefore consider that council regulation (eec) no 3491/90 has no effect at present on the import arrangements of bangladesh with the eu. our group has defended the rights of farmers and rural workers in the production of this rice to the basic labour standards. it is also essential to stress that the regulation must be in line with the general objectives of sustainable economic development, decent working conditions and poverty eradication in bangladesh.
in writing. - the purpose of this report is to bring regulation (eec) no 3491/90 into line with the system of implementing and delegated acts subsequent to lisbon and introduced by articles 290 and 291 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu). the preferential import arrangements shall, in the case of bangladesh, involve a reduction of the import duty limited to a certain quantity of semi-milled rice. access to products from the least developed countries is therefore not only aimed at establishing trade relations with new economies, but also at promoting sustainable development, improving working conditions and eradicating poverty in developing countries.
in writing. - i voted against this report because i do not agree with allowing bangladesh and other developing countries to import rice at zero duty on the european market and thus destroying italian rice production. the price of rice is falling and our farmers are facing bankruptcy. if the price remains low, production costs will not be covered and italian rice production is at risk of default. moreover, the problem is not just for farmers but also for the rice processing industry. from southeast asia, the competing product now arrives ready to be sold in small packages in supermarkets. this lax policy has only had the effect of encouraging a harsh competition and harming producers who are faced with unfair competition from the countries of south-east asia. i voted against because i want europe to protect our producers, not destroy them. i will continue to do everything i can to denounce these short-sighted and counterproductive agreements and i will fight to promote and help the excellence and quality of our production in europe.
in writing. - in the uruguay round negotiations, the union undertook to offer preferential arrangements for imports of rice originating in the least-developed countries. among the countries to which this offer was made, bangladesh expressed an interest in developing trade in this sector. the proposal for a regulation tabled by mr murphy, which i supported with my vote, establishes a preferential import regime for rice originating in bangladesh. this preferential arrangement, limited to a quota of 4[nbsp ]000 tonnes of rice per year, reduces the import duty by 50%. in addition, in order to ensure the reliability and efficiency of the preferential import arrangements, the commission is empowered to adopt delegated acts concerning the definition of rules making participation in the preferential import arrangements conditional, inter alia, on the lodging of a security by the beneficiary of the special scheme.
in writing. - here 's another deal that 's definitely not in our favor: italy is the main producer and exporter of rice in europe and the reduction in duties on rice from bangladesh is a new blow to our industry. only a few months ago we were talking about problems linked to the arrival of large quantities of cambodian rice in europe, which has put our producers in serious difficulty. it seems that the lesson has not been learned and the eu is proving to be recidivist and deaf to the demands coming from an important sector of the national economy. the problem with these agreements is that they are based on ideas that can be shared, namely to help the less developed countries, but unfortunately these measures often cause incredible damage to our agricultural production, resulting in a loss of turnover and, above all, of jobs. i don't think that to help others, we have to hurt ourselves. this mechanism must be reviewed, because it is not just the risk sector that is affected, but unfortunately many other productions too, which are in danger of disappearing because of such unwise choices.
in writing. - having regard to the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on imports of rice originating in bangladesh and to the need for a more consistent approach in relation to the 'deposit of a security' referred to in article 3 of the commission proposal (as regulated by regulation (ec) no 1964/2006), and also considering that the commission proposal explicitly refers to an export tax of an amount corresponding to the reduction of the duty to be collected by the exporting country, which is a requirement for export to the eu, i voted in favour of the proposal.
as regards medical devices, i must say that i am partially satisfied, because i think that the intention to give greater security to consumers and citizens, in this case in such sensitive areas, is extremely important. but i also think that we have not necessarily reached that goal today, because it is a rather cumbersome mechanism, a mechanism that requires a double level of certification. we know that bureaucracy does not usually get the consumer protection from fraud and error, which are always in the hands of the fraudster, but on the contrary it burdens small and mediumsized enterprises which are not able to bear the double costs of double certification. bureaucracy is bad for business and bad for health. i have this concern. i hope i'm wrong, but usually when this sort of thing happens, it's exactly what i said.
in writing. - we have adopted the legislative resolution which, with regard to the proposal for a regulation on medical devices, closes the first reading. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the european union. the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of in vitro diagnostic medical devices, which is a very important subject for the next negotiations. the text voted by parliament has set the defence of the health of european patients as its primary objective. this will be achieved by better and more detailed definition of the safeguards for their protection, more rigorous monitoring, more precise explicit obligations for manufacturers and healthcare professionals, a more defined traceability system, more appropriate certification bodies and the creation of a european portal for reporting accidents. the medical devices sector has also received a great deal of attention in order to ensure and protect its competitiveness, given its extreme importance in terms of innovation and employment for the european reality. the hope is that this attitude will continue.
in writing. - i have today voted in favour of the report on medical devices, which is the subject of the commission's proposal to revise the regulatory framework for medical devices which has been in force for 20 years. i think it is very appropriate to make a review, especially in the light of the improvements made to the existing legislation, while also considering the need to make further changes on some points as suggested by the rapporteur. the main points raised in the amendments tabled are as follows: the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. in line with the vote of the committee responsible and the committees which have been consulted, i believe that the present text reflects parliament's desire to bring the legislation on medical devices into line not only with the existing legislation but also with the progress made in this field.
in writing. - while i share some of the points in the roth-behrendt report on medical diagnostic devices and the need to improve the existing regulation, i believe that some of the aspects developed are controversial and would lead to increased costs without a real increase in safety. for these reasons, i voted against.
in writing. - considering it necessary and timely to update an outdated regulatory framework in this field, i believe that priority should be given to the essential objective of increasing the level of safety for the benefit of patients, consumers and healthcare professionals. combining this objective with greater competitiveness of european industry is the difficult task facing the european institutions. i think that the provisions on the possible refurbishment of single-use devices are particularly important because of the effects they may have on patient safety. to this end, i believe it is essential that the same conditions and safety characteristics as those to which the devices themselves must conform at the end of the manufacturing process should be ensured. consequently, anyone responsible for the refurbishment, whether a public or private institution, must necessarily be considered a manufacturer within the meaning of the regulation, with the same burdens and responsibilities. it is inevitable that we must avoid a logic which would make refurbished devices economically advantageous compared with others which have reached the same market at the end of the manufacturing process, but with greater specific characteristics and guarantees of safety of use. we cannot escape the responsibility of ensuring the same high safety standards for all medical devices as a result of the development of this new legal framework.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it is intended to improve the proposal put forward by the commission with a view to renewing a regulation as important as the one on medical devices and their certification. the current legislation is almost 20 years old. i therefore see this as a good opportunity to improve the regulation in the pursuit of the highest safety standards for patients, operators and all users of medical devices. among the many amendments to the text which i have shared, i particularly welcome the one concerning the labelling of single-use devices which must actually refer to instruments which can no longer be used and not to instruments which are subsequently refurbished, which must be considered and labelled as reusable and their refurbishment subjected to strict conformity checks. the legislation, in addition to being safety-oriented, must take into account the impact on the internal market for producers. so the standards and the checks must be as uniform as possible between the different member states and in this respect i agree that more weight should be given to the opinion of the group (mdcg) which must be made up of really experienced staff for all the member states.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the commission proposal to revise the existing regulatory framework for medical devices. strict control and certification procedures are necessary to ensure full compliance and traceability of medical devices, such as breast or hip replacements. in this sense, the amendments i support are aimed at strengthening the procedure for placing new medical devices on the market, so as to ensure that unsafe products or devices which have undergone insufficient controlled studies cannot be used. i also think it is necessary that patients should be given an implant card and registered so that they can be informed of any accidents that may have occurred with a similar product.
in writing. - i am in favour of the proposal to revise the existing regulatory framework for medical devices. the updating of the existing legislative framework is now necessary as the regulation used is not up to date with eu regulations and requirements. the improvements made to the commission proposal in the areas of conformity assessment, clinical investigations, classification of medical devices, incident reporting and safety corrective action represent a major step forward in protecting the health of all european citizens.
in writing. - the roth-berendt report is intended to provide complete and clear information to patients about the devices they have implanted, to enable them to identify them and to communicate warnings or precautions to be taken, such as compatibility or not with certain diagnostic devices or with scanners used for security checks. furthermore, the regulation aims to strengthen significantly some key elements of the current regulatory framework, such as the control of notified bodies, conformity assessment procedures, clinical investigations and clinical evaluation, surveillance and market surveillance, while introducing provisions ensuring the transparency and traceability of devices, in order to improve the health and safety of healthcare professionals, patients, users and handlers, including in the waste disposal chain. an innovative regulation which will improve quality and safety standards.
in writing. - the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on medical devices amends directive 2001/83/ec, regulation (ec) no 178/2002 and regulation (ec) no 1223/2009. the commission proposes to change the structure of the text to better reflect the logical sequence of the life cycle of a device. in addition, devices are classified into four classes according to the level of risk they present to patients, a system for the approval of medical devices is provided for and the category of 'special notified bodies' is established to carry out conformity assessments for devices. the labelling of devices as single-use (or reusable) and the reconditioning of devices needs to be subject to stricter and more transparent rules and the commission has introduced important provisions on clinical investigations. the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the eu-mediterranean partnership agreement on the european neighbourhood policy (enp) and the european neighbourhood policy (enp). in the light of the foregoing, i have voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the text, which is the result of a political agreement, and i share the reasons for this. i think that there needs to be a review and an update at community level of the directives governing medical devices. it must be clear that the current legislation already guarantees the safety and quality of products. in a market of millions of devices, we have seen in 20 years only a few egregious cases of unsafe products, such as brazilian heart valves and breast implants, being the product of fraud, which no regulation can ever eradicate completely. i share the spirit of the legislation which has made it possible to combine safety requirements with the need for lean, effective procedures which are fully appropriate to the ever-evolving nature of medical devices. i will always be against the approval of devices by a centralised agency or even the transfer of powers to the medicines agency. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of medical devices is not compromised by the introduction of pharmaceutical regulations and organizations. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. - in line with the epp i voted in favour of the report on in vitro diagnostic medical devices (ivds) as an essential tool for laboratory and decentralised analyses in hospitalisation, including a wide range of self-diagnostic tests such as blood glucose measurement, hiv tests and dna tests. improvements to the legislation on ivd medical devices are necessary as the highest priority is to identify the best treatment to treat a patient in the shortest possible time and this inexorably implies the use of high quality devices. so what we need is to regulate the placing on the market of ce marked devices which do not meet the standards set by the eu. it must ensure the greatest possible security both to protect the user and to regulate the market itself. in this respect, it will be necessary to step up market surveillance by introducing mandatory inspections of undertakings without prior warning. in order to protect the health of the consumer in the best possible way, action is also needed on the following points: the system of notified bodies, clinical performance studies, classification, internal examinations and accompanying diagnostic tests, self-testing and decentralised analysis, scope and transition period.
in writing. - while i share some parts of the liese report on medical diagnostic devices and the need to improve the existing regulation, i believe that some of the aspects developed are controversial and would lead to increased costs without a real increase in safety. for these reasons, i voted against.
in writing. - at the present state of our technical knowledge and the quality of the material available on the global market, the problem of false negatives unfortunately remains a double-digit emergency. in order to protect the fundamental rights laid down in the eu charter, the legislator must therefore demonstrate that it has put in place all reasonable precautions and all possible measures to minimise the iatrogenic risk. in this respect, the solutions proposed in the report seem to me to be balanced. among these, i would mention the much stricter regime for class d ivds, based on external supervision, the publicity of all r & d testing phases, the extended right of access by private individuals, the role of the ethics committee in the pre-authorisation phase and the establishment of a permanent european advisory board for the periodic review of the law. consultations with stakeholders have shown a broad willingness, including on the part of companies, to accept measures that in other contexts might appear burdensome or redundant, but which in this case ensure a climate of social acceptance and prevent witch-hunting phenomena. a single incident in this sector threatens the entire supply chain and would trigger panic events with unpredictable effects. i shall certainly vote in favour of the report.
in writing. - i welcome the commission's proposal to establish an ad hoc regulation for in vitro diagnostic devices (ivds) and i vote in favour of this report which makes further improvements to ensure ever greater safety in health care. ivds make a major contribution to medicine and health protection. just think that they are used to diagnose hiv and hepatitis c virus and to perform dna tests or nutigenetic tests (not initially included). the introduction or use of poor quality devices (as has happened many times in the past) can pose many risks to public health. this regulation should therefore ensure that all ivd devices used within the union are tested and certified to high safety standards. a new guarantee proposed here is the obligation to require manufacturers of patient protective devices to take out insurance for which they must always be guaranteed fair compensation in the event of error. the commission has proposed that the directive be implemented in five years, which is considered to be too long, especially in certain areas where regulation is more urgent.
in writing. - the commission has proposed major improvements to address the current shortcomings of the ivd medical device system, which are similar to those of other medical devices. the notified bodies will be substantially improved and the supervision of notified bodies by the member states will be strengthened. i think it is very important to redefine the classification and the fields of application, to strengthen the system of supervision and market surveillance and to make unannounced inspections of undertakings compulsory. the commission also proposes to set up a network of european reference laboratories, which play an important role in the control of high-risk medical devices. i welcome these proposals, which i believe will considerably improve patient safety.
in writing. - the aim of this report is to make important improvements to address the shortcomings of the in vitro diagnostic medical device system. these are medical devices intended for diagnostic use outside the human body, both in the laboratory and for decentralised analysis, and include a wide range of tests, such as self-diagnostic tests for blood glucose measurement, hiv tests and dna tests. ivd medical devices are products that can circulate freely in the single market, which is why the european union must ensure the highest possible safety, strengthen the system of supervision and market surveillance to protect citizens and prevent low-quality devices from being placed on the market, which could put the health of european citizens at risk.
in writing. - the current community regulatory framework does not contain provisions which would prevent the placing on the market of low-quality in vitro diagnostic (ivd) medical devices. this loophole has been risking dramatic consequences for too long. diagnosis and prevention are probably the most delicate and critical phases that science has to deal with. in the light of all this, i strongly supported the introduction of mandatory european reference standards in order to ensure strict and rigorous surveillance in the field, transparency and information to patients and protection of public health.
in writing. - ivd medical devices are devices for out-of-body (in vitro) diagnosis and include a wide range of tests such as blood glucose measurement, hiv testing and dna testing. using these devices, the tests gave false negatives, meaning that the virus was absent even though it was present. this product has been available to patients in the eu for years. the european union must ensure the highest possible safety by improving market surveillance and supervision. i voted in favour of the proposal because it focuses on product quality.
in writing. - ivd medical devices are products that can circulate freely in the single market, which is why the eu has a duty to ensure the highest possible safety for consumers. i am pleased to note that the proposal has taken account of smes, through a series of amendments which take account of the capacity and limitations of these enterprises. i fully support the intention to take into account the rights of persons with disabilities, in particular with reference to the un convention ratified by the union. finally, as regards the delegated acts, i believe that the commission should not be able to use this legal instrument to amend areas such as the general safety and performance requirements, the technical declaration of conformity and the integration and amendment of conformity assessment procedures.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i am aware of the importance that environmental accounts have now acquired for the eu agenda as indispensable indicators for assessing the progress and well-being of citizens around the world. following the 2006 european council decision and the 2008 commission communication, the commission also proposed in 2010 to introduce a regulation on european environmental accounts. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the amount of the aid granted to the beneficiary. air emissions accounts, environmental taxes and material flow accounts. parliament also gave its support to the possibility of including in the future any new modules to develop the matter further. the present report is therefore intended to confirm the goodness of the commission's proposal and to reaffirm the willingness of the actors involved to strengthen public debate and policy-making in the light of the european environmental accounts. however, every effort should be made to ensure that the financial and staffing constraints of the national statistical institutes do not affect the quality of the surveys carried out, thus continuing to promote the use of existing forms and avoiding unnecessary administrative burdens.
in writing. - i supported the report by my colleague, who brings to the attention of the european commission the results of some pilot tests and new statistical data on the costs of environmental protection, the environmental goods and services sector and the physical energy flow accounts.
in writing. - the crisis that has shaken the international financial system has brought to the attention of the legislator the long-standing question of integrating macroeconomic indices, based on gdp and monetary policy, with other elements, such as the sustainable economic well-being index, as a more accurate measure of country systems. a look at the work of philip lawn on australia, or the stieglitz report on france, and perhaps the many mistakes made in dealing with the sovereign debt crisis, is enough to realize how necessary it is to integrate our hermeneutical tools to arrive at decisions that advance the well-being and improve the quality of life of our fellow citizens. the second un report on the "happiness index", based largely on oecd data, also points to a path worth exploring. the european environmental accounts regulation, proposed by the commission in 2010, certainly goes in this direction, given the relevance of environmental sustainability aspects to citizens' lives in a variety of ways. as this regulation has been in force for almost three years, i think it is quite reasonable that the rapporteur's proposal should extend the statistical analysis to the items of expenditure on environmental protection, the environmental goods and services sector and the physical energy flow accounts.
in writing. - the collection of increasingly complete and reliable statistical data, together with the need to know and improve the environmental situation on our planet, are the basis for the desire to establish the collection of data on environmental economic accounts for the member states. i voted in favour because i agree with the rapporteur that an extra year should be granted to countries that request it to implement the collection of data on environmental economic accounts to ensure that the work is as accurate and useful as possible. europe is working to develop rigorous tools to measure progress towards social, economic and environmental objectives in a sustainable way, to measure the impact of the economy on the environment and how the environment contributes to the economy with the increasingly necessary link between the environment and the economy.
in writing. - the new accounts will help to further develop more general indicators to strengthen public debate and launch new policies. due to financial constraints, it is important to improve their quality so that the additional administrative burden does not go beyond what is necessary. i vote in favour of the motion.
in writing. - the european environmental accounts regulation was the first step towards a rigorous environmental accounting tool, which has been on the eu agenda since 2003, when the argument began to be made that gdp alone was not a sufficient indicator to measure the well-being of citizens worldwide. i believe that the commission's proposal to extend regulation (eu) no 691/2011 to environmental protection expenditure, the environmental goods and services sector and material flow accounts is a step in the right direction. these new accounts will help to further develop more general indicators to strengthen public debate and enable the development of new policies that contribute to the union's strategic priorities on green growth and efficiency.
in writing. - the european union is seeking to promote a better understanding of the interactions between the economy and the environment and to increase the 'responsibility' of policy-makers and citizens. the new accounts will help to further develop more general indicators to strengthen public debate and policy-making on environmental issues. in view of the current financial constraints and staffing shortages in the national statistical institutes, it is important to pay attention to improving the quality and promoting the use of existing modules and those which the commission has presented with the present proposal. national administrations, by making wider use of environmental account data, will be able to develop well-targeted policies that contribute to the union's strategic priorities on green growth and resource efficiency.
in writing. - for many years now, gdp alone has not been considered an adequate indicator of the well-being of citizens in a place, and the quality of the environment is increasingly playing a central role in this regard. this is why the european commission first proposed a regulation on european environmental accounts, which came into force in 2011, and introduced the first three modules to measure progress towards social, economic and environmental objectives in a sustainable way: expenditure on environmental protection, the environmental goods and services sector and physical energy flow accounts. i believe that the new european environmental economic accounts can increasingly contribute to the development of increasingly appropriate indicators, which can also strengthen public debate in the preparation of future environmental policies for the eu.
in writing. - environmental accounts have been on the agenda of the european union since 2003 and in april 2010 the commission first proposed a regulation on european environmental accounts, which was then adopted and entered into force in july 2011 as regulation (eu) no 691/2011, introducing the first three modules: air emissions accounts, environmental taxes and material flow accounts. with the entry into force of the regulation, eurostat and the member states started pilot testing the first three modules of article 10 of the regulation (environmental protection expenditure, the environmental goods and services sector and physical energy flow accounts). having regard to the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) no 691/2011 on european environmental economic accounts, i voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - the new environmental economic accounts can effectively contribute to developing general indicators to strengthen public debate and policy-making and this proposal will contribute to further developing more general indicators to strengthen public debate and policy-making. the postponement of application for some member states may indeed be justified, but only if this can serve to improve subsequent application.
in writing. - mr president, 2015 is the european year of development. it will be an important occasion to remind people that the right to development and the right to respect for human dignity are not based on a person's place of residence or his or her heritage, and that the inalienability of human dignity is the basic principle of any eu policy. the fight against global poverty is not only a moral imperative, but will also contribute to creating a more stable, peaceful, prosperous and equitable world, reflecting the interdependence between the richest and poorest countries. all this with the awareness that a debate on the poor in the rest of the world cannot forget the more than 100 million poor people living in europe. it is essential to raise awareness among union citizens of their role in global development and of the possibilities of making it fairer by integrating it into national education programmes, and to promote a sense of responsibility and solidarity between europeans and citizens of developing countries.
in writing. - i voted for this report because the european consensus on development remains the most comprehensive basis for union development cooperation. it sets out common objectives and principles for development and underlines the union’s commitment to poverty eradication. the european year for development will also act as a catalyst for eu support by raising awareness through political public debate, building momentum and exchanging best practices between member states, local and regional authorities and civil society. it will help foster a sense of joint responsibility and solidarity among europeans and people in developing countries. combating global poverty is not only a moral obligation, it will also help to build a more stable and peaceful world, reflecting the interdependence of richer and poorer countries. the lisbon treaty has firmly anchored development policy within union external action in support of the union’s interest in a stable and prosperous and more equitable world. development policy also helps address other global challenges and contributes to the eu-2020 strategy.
in writing. - following the 2012 european development days, the commission was invited to declare 2015 the european year of development. i personally believe that a global mobilization of all those involved in this field is needed to inform public opinion about the external action of the eu countries towards developing countries, opening up a broad debate on the poor people in the world, without however setting aside the issue of poverty within the european continent itself. i voted in favour of the goerens report because i believe that 2015 can be the right occasion to recall the inalienable rights of the human being as such and to remind that human dignity is also one of the fundamental values that the eu defends. declaring 2015 the year of development would also signal the eu's willingness to address the challenges of development cooperation policy in the context of achieving the millennium development goals. the rapporteur stresses that economic resources must be used in a targeted manner and that, although there is a positive trend in development aid policy, the focus must not be lost, namely the nobility and universality of development aid.
in writing. - the text contains a number of laudable proposals. but it lacks the concrete, contextualized approach that can turn a pleasant reading into a real project. that's why i abstained.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal because its purpose is to declare 2015 the european year of development. the eu is the world's largest donor of development aid. despite this strong commitment, eu citizens often lack sufficient information about development cooperation policies and their added value. the proposal therefore provides an opportunity to improve the level of information on the european union's development policy in all member states. the general objectives of the european year for development 2015 are to stimulate the active interest of european citizens in development cooperation, to foster their participation in policy formulation and implementation, and to highlight what the eu can already achieve as the world's largest aid donor.
in writing. - i voted in favour, as did the rapporteur, who believes that the establishment of 2015 as the year of development should be more than a symbolic matter and should represent a commitment not only for europe but for all global actors. 2015 will be an occasion to remind us that this right is not based on a person's place of residence or his or her wealth, but that the inalienability of human dignity is the basic principle of any european union policy. i also think that the motto 'dignity for all' is both simple and appropriate. development policies, although often mutually beneficial, must overcome economic compromise in favour of a universality which must in time appear to be due. finally, i agree that the limited budgetary resources for the 2015 campaign should be used in a very targeted way to help those most in need, especially ngos and youth movements.
in writing. - the commission is invited to declare 2015 the european year for development. despite the good intentions of the report, i believe that european funds can be invested in more targeted development initiatives than those proposed. that is why i shall abstain.
in writing. - the european parliament approved an amendment calling on the commission to declare 2015 the european year for development. i welcome this initiative and the proposal to adopt the slogan 'dignity for all' for the election campaign. i believe that a broad movement to raise awareness among european public opinion of the external action of the countries of the european union in developing countries should not, however, exempt us from continuing to consider the more than one hundred million poor people living in europe. we must also be very careful not to fall into utilitarian speeches about the privileges deriving from the use of donor countries' policies.
in writing. - it is important to remember that the eu is the largest economic contributor of development aid in the world. despite the economic crisis, according to a recent eurobarometer survey, 85% of european citizens believe that developing countries should continue to be supported. four years after the adoption of the agenda for change, 2015 has been declared the european year of development and will be an ideal time for donors and development cooperation stakeholders to reflect on what has been achieved so far and, above all, what remains to be done. the european year for development will also be an important opportunity to raise awareness and sensitivity to development issues across europe.
in writing. - the report, presented by mr goerens, aims to designate 2015 as the 'european year of development'. despite the eu being the largest donor of development aid worldwide, its citizens often lack the information they need to appreciate the work it does. the report in question, which i supported with my vote, stresses the importance of raising public awareness of the eu's work in developing countries and emphasises the general objectives of the european year for development 2015, namely to stimulate the active interest of european citizens in development cooperation, as well as to promote a sense of responsibility for their participation in policy formulation and implementation.
in writing. - 2015 will be the european year of development with the aim of promoting public acceptance of development aid policy. having regard to the proposal for a european parliament and council decision on the european year of development, i have voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - respect for rights and development are central to the european agenda, which is why the decision to launch the european year of development for 2015 can only be welcomed. the year should lead to a general mobilisation of all national, private, subnational and international actors in order to promote development for the poor in the rest of the world and in europe and to propose new solutions and methods to counter these trends. i would stress that attention must first be given to intra-european development, with a view to improving living conditions and ensuring respect for the rights of all european citizens, so that new experiences and knowledge can also be developed and projected beyond european borders.
in writing. - the report is of particular importance because it concerns an innovative european programme which aims to contribute to the development of an independent european space surveillance and tracking capacity, with the aim of preventing and controlling the increasing risk of collision between space infrastructure and other space vehicles or debris. this is the first attempt of its kind at european level. the european commission proposes that this programme should start by pooling the resources and expertise available in the member states and providing services to users. the need for space surveillance is shared internationally and nationally, and is also recognised by industry as a whole. as the rapporteur himself has pointed out, this programme is also important for ensuring the long-term availability of european space resources such as the satellites of the galileo and copernicus programmes. finally, i agree with the rapporteur's proposal that the european space agency, or the current european body with expertise in space surveillance, should be included in the knowledge service by means of an agreement between the european space agency and the participating member states.
in writing. - in line with the ppe, i voted in favour of the report on the support programme for the space surveillance and tracking service (sst) because i consider it most appropriate to contribute to the development of this system to prevent and monitor the risk of collision between space infrastructure and other vehicles or space debris. beyond the recognition of sst at international and national level, it is also relevant to ensure the long-term availability of european space resources such as the satellites of the galileo and copernicus programmes. i think it is good to include the competences of esa, as the only qualified authority at european level in the field of osh: i am convinced that, although it is not possible for this agency to manage the programme, it can make a substantial contribution by providing the right support to the space surveillance and tracking service. in general, therefore, i agree with the rapporteur that the accelerator needs to be pushed further in order to define a legislative framework for the programme to introduce the general provisions and to specify the financial allocation of eur 70 million.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mrs andersdotter's report. the creation, through the reorganization of funds already allocated, of a european service for the monitoring of collisions of space objects and/or uncontrolled re-entries of carriers or satellites which put the safety of citizens at risk is urgent and necessary.
in writing. - the sst programme, although not one of the most ambitious and hence notorious european space programmes, is crucial to the success of all esa's present and future space missions. it is estimated that more than 700,000 hazardous debris is in orbit around the earth and that their potential to damage or destroy operational satellites is extremely high. the possibility of losing a mission due to the impact of space debris is considered the third highest risk, after the hazards arising from launch and distribution operations. the sst system allows the movement of these debris to be traced and thus predicted, limiting the risks to satellites and space missions. in this context, it is clear how important it is for the proper performance of the most important missions such as copernicus, galileo, etc. i voted in favour, as did the rapporteur, because i believe that increased participation by esa in the copernicus and egnos/galileo projects, including in economic terms, can ensure the smooth running of the programme without burdening the union budget.
in writing. - the proposed programme aims to contribute to the development of an independent european space surveillance and tracking capacity. this would aim to prevent and control the increasing risk of collision between space infrastructure and other vehicles. for these reasons, i vote in favour of the report.
in writing. - the proposed programme aims to contribute to the development of an independent european space surveillance and tracking (sst) capability in order to prevent and control the increasing risk of collision between space infrastructure and other space vehicles or debris. i think it is important to consider the possibility of including esa's knowledge by means of an agreement between esa and the participating member states. i also hope that the european parliament will consider the multiannual work programme before its entry into force by means of the delegated act procedure referred to in article 6.
in writing. - all of us, in our daily lives, without being aware of it, use space technologies. for example, when we use our mobile phones, when we make financial transactions, when we fly, or when we sit on the couch and watch the weather forecast, or when we search for the nearest restaurant in the car with the navigation system. technology is for everyone. space systems are essential in areas such as the environment, climate change, agriculture, transport, security. we cannot afford to interrupt services using these systems because that would have significant economic consequences. our planet is surrounded by space devices and the most serious threat to the functioning of satellites and space infrastructure today is precisely the risk of collision with other satellites or space debris. this explains why it is crucial to implement a surveillance and tracking system that prevents, or at least lowers, the risk of such an event.
in writing. - the need for a space surveillance and tracking (sst) programme is shared at international and national level and is recognised by public authorities and industry as a whole. the proposed programme aims to contribute to the development of an independent european sst capability, in order to prevent and control the increasing risk of collision between space infrastructure and other spacecraft or space debris. the sst is also very important for ensuring the long-term availability of european space assets such as the satellites of the galileo and copernicus programmes, which represent the first step towards sharing the resources and expertise available to member states to provide services to users.
in writing. - to be competitive in the aerospace sector, europe needs to become more independent in space surveillance and tracking in order to prevent and control the increasing risk of collision between space infrastructure and other vehicles or debris. i believe that sst (space surveillance and tracking) is important to ensure the long-term availability of european space resources such as the satellites of the galileo and copernicus programmes. for the first time, the eu would be acting in such a context in a completely autonomous way, and that is precisely why i support the rapporteur's initiative to consider the possibility of including the knowledge of the european space agency (esa) by means of an agreement between the esa and the participating member states. esa is the only qualified body at european level for osh. the scope of the services should also include the establishment of a public catalogue of orbital elements of space objects to improve the general knowledge on the subject and to allow for possible commercial applications, while remaining open to any additional services that the commission might propose in a second phase, so as not to preclude possible improvements in the future.
in writing. - the proposal aims to contribute to the development of the surveillance and tracking service (sst) in order to prevent and control the increasing risk of collision between space infrastructures and other space vehicles or space debris and is very important to ensure the long-term availability of european space assets such as the satellites of the galileo and copernicus programmes. in addition, considering the intention to include esa's knowledge by agreement between esa and the participating member states, the establishment of a public catalogue of orbital elements of space objects and further definition of the legislative framework of the programme, i voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - develop an independent european space surveillance and tracking capability that can ensure the monitoring of space debris and help prevent its collision with space infrastructure and other vehicles. this is an international need, which can therefore be implemented at european level and which must be based on the available resources of the european galileo and copernicus programmes and also of esa, although it is not a body directly linked to the european union. i agree that a public catalogue of orbital elements and space objects should be included in order to ensure a kind of constant mapping, to improve general knowledge of the subject and to allow for possible commercial applications.
in writing. - the adoption of this regulation, with an agreement already reached at first reading, is the first step towards the closure of the whole package presented by the european commission about a year ago to reorganise european legislation in the field of animal and plant health, plant reproductive material and official controls. significant improvements have been made to the initial proposal to better meet the needs of european citizens, consumers and farmers, and positive work is also under way on the other regulations in the package, with the exception of the regulation on plant reproductive material, whose approach was and remains unacceptable. i welcome the vote this evening, as we look forward to completing the work on the package, at least for this parliamentary term, with the votes of the next plenary in strasbourg.
in writing. - this report focuses on the management of expenditure related to the food chain, animal health and welfare, plant health and plant reproductive material. the regulation is part of the legislative package 'smarter regulation for safer food' and aims to simplify the legislative framework for food safety. i voted in favour of mrs le brun's report for three main reasons: firstly, i agree with the proposal to rationalise the cofinancing rates by creating three maximum rates. secondly, i believe that it is appropriate to introduce precise indicators in order to assess more effectively the effects of food safety policies. finally, i think it is appropriate to set up programmes for the investigation of harmful organisms in order to prevent the growing threats to plant health. in addition to what has been said, i support the rapporteur's position on the following points: budget and amount of grants, access to the crisis reserve, list of animal diseases and zoonoses, criteria and objectives of the actions and eligible costs.
in writing. - while recognising that the positions in the le brun report are improvements over the current legislative framework on food safety and expenditure management in the food chain; the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. i therefore abstained.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the adoption of the regulation on the management of expenditure in the food chain, for which i was rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the environment. this regulation rationalizes an overly fragmented sectoral financial framework and thus ensures a safer food chain for consumers through effective prevention and eradication of diseases and harmful organisms, while respecting animal health and welfare. i welcome the widening of the category of programmes potentially eligible for european financial support, by removing the discriminatory provision of a minimum threshold for grants, given the multiple nature of the programmes eligible for cofinancing. i also think it is important to have expanded the categories of expenditure eligible for funding to include, inter alia, compensation to operators for the costs of killing and slaughtering animals, the value of plants and plant products destroyed, the related transport and disposal costs and other specific measures to prevent the further spread of diseases and harmful organisms from the first suspicion of them. the concept of 'market value' of animals has also been clarified to avoid uncertainties of interpretation to the detriment of operators.
in writing. - i appreciate and vote in favour of this report, which on the whole corrects some of the criticisms made in the commission's already good proposal, in an attempt to rationalize an otherwise too complex framework. the safety of the food chain is extremely important. in recent years there have been many emergencies requiring intervention. the new proposal provides for eur 1 [nbsp ]891 936 million to address the sector's problems by focusing on crisis prevention. however, it introduces some rules which are, in my view, wrong and do not go in this direction, such as the minimum threshold of eur 50 [nbsp ]000 for operations covered by grants. i therefore agree with the rapporteur who has proposed that this point be deleted and that certain guarantees and financing be introduced to supplement the costs of extraordinary measures such as cattle slaughter or crop losses in the interests of food security. i would like to conclude by saying that the reorganization of the regulations in this area is a priority for a sector which is so important to society and so exposed to extremely high risks.
in writing. - the regulation contains the commission's proposal to set a threshold of eur 50 000 below which no subsidy may be granted. preventive measures (surveillance) are less costly than control measures; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. where a measure is submitted for a limited geographical area within a member state, this amount may not be reached even if there is a risk of spread. i therefore consider it necessary to abolish this threshold. i also think it is important to find a solution which will allow the food security budget to be strengthened if necessary, should large-scale agricultural crises occur. it is still necessary to allow for the new expenditure corresponding to the new food safety policy guidelines to be covered. it is therefore appropriate to supplement the costs relating in particular to the slaughter of animals, losses due to emergency vaccination, possible reinforcement of the current measures, processing and disposal of carcases, economic loss due to measures provided for in the framework of plant protection and lost value of destroyed plants.
in writing. - the regulation is part of the legislative package called 'smarter regulation for safer food', which aims to simplify the legislative framework on safety, as well as smarter management of expenditure on the food chain, animal health and welfare, plant health and plant reproductive material. in the light of the above, i have voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - in the context of the new multiannual financial framework 2014-2020, a total of eur 1[nbsp ]891,936 million has been allocated for expenditure related to the food chain, animal health and welfare, plant health and plant reproductive material. i agree with the text proposed and in particular with the aim of streamlining an otherwise too complex and fragmented financial framework, bringing it into line with the provisions of the new multiannual financial framework and in line with the lisbon treaty. i voted in favour of a common and simplified financial arrangement which i hope will bring benefits in the planning and financial management of programmes relating to the food chain, animal health and welfare, plant health and plant reproductive material. i believe it is essential to cover the costs of controls and the enforcement of all legislation relating to eradication programmes and emergency measures, plant health measures, the financing of official controls, pesticide residue levels in food and feed of plant or animal origin, the placing on the market of plant protection products and the sustainable use of pesticides.
in writing. - the new regulation will repeal and amend 11 previous acts in order to rationalise the legislation currently in force. the commission proposal proposes a total budget of eur 1 [nbsp ]892 million, but it is necessary to clearly define how these funds will be distributed among all the various expenditures. in addition, in view of the new mff 2014-2020, there is a risk that the shift of resources from the cap could lead to insufficient funding for the food security expenditure chapter. in addition, some funding is omitted in the context of eligible costs, which are also substantially taken over from the current framework. i therefore welcome the inclusion of the costs of animal slaughter, the losses due to emergency vaccination, the processing and disposal of carcasses and the economic loss suffered as a result of measures taken in the framework of plant protection and the lost value of destroyed plants.
in writing. - i have chosen to vote in favour of mr winkler's report on timber imports because i believe that the amendments proposed by the rapporteur are aimed at improving the licensing system for law enforcement, government and trade in the forestry sector in order to make it more efficient. it is a mechanism designed to tackle the problem of illegal logging and the trade associated with such practices: this system applies to certain types of wood and wood products from 'partner countries', i.e. countries that have entered into voluntary partnership agreements (vpas) with the european union, so that only legally obtained wood and wood products are imported into the eu. however, the central pillar of the proposal adopted by the commission is not the modification of the substantive characteristics of the flegt licensing system, but the alignment of the provisions on comitology contained in council regulation (ec) no 2173/2005 to the new regime of delegated and implementing acts provided for by the treaty of lisbon.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, which de facto sets out the changes in delegated and implementing acts for the import of wood from third countries following the entry into force of the treaties.
in writing. - council regulation (ec) no 2173/2005 establishes a forest law enforcement, government and trade (flegt) licensing scheme to combat illegal logging and trade. the regulation provides that partner countries (pas) are required to ensure, through controls and inspections, that timber products have been obtained from legally harvested domestically produced timber or legally imported timber from a partner country. i voted in favour because, like the rapporteur, i believe that the amendments to the original text are necessary in order to achieve a fairer regulation in line with the tfeu, since, if effectively implemented, this regulation could provide an incentive for countries to negotiate voluntary partnership agreements (vpas) with the eu. otherwise, it is very likely that interest in vaps will decline and the economic and environmental benefits will be reduced accordingly.
in writing. - the commission proposes to align the provisions on comitology contained in regulation (ec) no 2173/2005 with the new regime of delegated and implementing acts provided for by the lisbon treaty. i think that two amendments should be made to the commission's proposal. the first amendment is aimed at ensuring that the delegation of power to the commission is not conferred for an indefinite period but is limited to five years, while the second aims to set the time limit for parliament to object to a draft delegated act at two months.
in writing. - in march 2013, the european union banned the import of timber and timber products from any country in the world if they come from illegal logging, requiring traders and customs to check and punish those who trade in timber of undeclared and therefore controversial origin. one year later, many countries are still not following this lead. it is therefore necessary to insist that the rule be respected. in fact, in addition to the mere commercial question, there is a civil and social commitment to be pursued.
in writing. - council regulation (ec) no 2173/2005 establishes a licensing scheme for forest law enforcement, governance and trade (flegt) to tackle illegal logging and trade related to such practices. the proposal adopted by the commission is not intended to change the substantive characteristics of the flegt licensing system, but to align the provisions on comitology contained in council regulation (ec) no 2173/2005 with the new regime of delegated and implementing acts provided for by the treaty of lisbon, by conferring on the commission the power to adopt both implementing and delegated acts. in the light of the foregoing, i have voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - the present report arises from the growing need to amend the current legislation on clinical trials in the light of the considerable reduction in the number of clinical trials conducted in europe, which is often due to some of the provisions of the clinical trials directive. i voted in favour of the report on the epp-like trials because i believe that we should make progress in this area in order to advance medical science in order to protect patients as much as possible and at the same time to curb the heavy economic effects that a phase of stagnation could have. in this respect, the eu must aim at a pioneering role in promoting research and development of medicines for rare diseases: this will make it more attractive to pharmaceutical companies and will be at the forefront of patient safety and transparency worldwide, so as to ensure public trust and the validity of science. i therefore welcome the amendments tabled, as i believe they are moving in the right direction in order to improve the existing legislation and make it more robust in view of current needs and future prospects.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report which deals with a very sensitive subject in a balanced and practical way.
in writing. - the report is a test of our ability to apply the european set of values consistently in the face of the dynamics of the global production system, in a delicate balance between the inalienable rights of the individual and the possibility (i.e. the natural predisposition) of the market to self-regulate. on the one hand, we have been working on the european patent during this parliamentary term, and it would be inconceivable to ignore the damage done to the european pharmaceutical industry by legislation which urgently needs to be adapted. on the other hand, the transfer of experimental activities to third countries raises genuine ethical questions and can foster a certain subculture of conspiracy, hostile to the western model and the free market. the recommendations and amendments made by the rapporteur strike a balanced balance between a number of important points and solutions which can be shared: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union is able to take full advantage of the opportunities offered by the single market, from publicity and transparency measures for testing to the extension of european standards to testing in pvs, from the meeting of ethics committees from which a business culture of the european respiratory sector can emerge to public support for insurance costs which are a brake on advanced testing activities and therefore could ultimately also delay developments of great importance to the quality of life of europeans. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. - there is broad consensus among all stakeholders on the urgent need to reform existing legislation on clinical trials. in recent years there has been a marked decline in the number of clinical trials conducted in europe, due at least in part to some of the negative measures of the directive. i believe that the changes proposed here are necessary to improve discipline. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - directive 2001/20/ec marked a major breakthrough in the development of the standards for conducting clinical trials in the union and internationally. however, it appears that this directive has created difficulties in promoting clinical trials in several member states. the proposal for a regulation aims to ensure harmonisation of the existing legal framework, a reduction in approval times (tacit approval) and a reduction in red tape, while at the same time promoting scientific research and innovation. in addition, as the commission proposes the establishment of a publicly accessible eu clinical trial database (transparency of results), with the clinical trial report, penalties for late submission and the indefinite retention of the permanent file, i voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - i generally agree with the oecd's recommendation to divide clinical trials into three categories: the commission shall, by means of implementing acts, lay down the rules on the format and content of the information to be provided to the public. i voted in favour of the text, which is the result of an agreement which i particularly support, in particular, the provision for clinical trials in emergency situations to be authorized when it is impossible to obtain the consent of the subject or his representatives within the period of the therapy and, moreover, when the trial is specifically designed for the emergency situation. the trial must present a proportionate risk to a patient in the situation being tested compared to a standard treatment; in addition, it must have the potential to generate a direct clinical benefit. i also believe that it is essential to defend the rights of patients and vulnerable people to informed consent. the participation of certain groups of patients, such as minors or pregnant women, in a clinical trial should be subject to strict conditions in order to ensure a high level of protection.
in writing. - there is a broad consensus on the need to reform existing legislation on clinical trials, which has declined due to some of the provisions of the clinical trials directive. i agree that one of the main problems with the directive is its legal form, which should be replaced by a regulation in order to ensure greater consistency in its application. in addition, the simplification of bureaucratic procedures can play a key role in promoting experimentation in europe. i also believe that the question of ethics committees is of fundamental importance, as they have an important role to play in authorizing trials and ensuring the safety and well-being of patients. the establishment of a common european platform where ethics committees can discuss the modalities of authorization of clinical trials is therefore very welcome. finally, i believe that the lack of transparency in the results of clinical trials is at the root of the loss of public confidence in them. in this regard, improvements are therefore needed in this regard by encouraging the publication of the results of the trials and the publication of a full clinical trial report in the eu database.
in writing. - the concrete and balanced text addresses a number of issues such as the importance of coordination in the event of accidents, the independence of the regulatory authorities in the member states, periodic self-assessments with peer review and the review of the euratom treaty. that is why i have voted for it.
in writing. - following the very serious accident at fukushima, which raised serious doubts about the safety of energy from nuclear sources, the european union, which is probably the first in the world in terms of safety, also decided to review the regulations in this field. i voted in favour of this report because i welcome any effort to improve the already high european standards of safety in health and environmental matters. i also believe that ensuring more comprehensive legislation is also a duty towards the countries of the union which have decided to abandon the nuclear road because they are not convinced of its safety. nuclear energy, however, is one of the main sources of energy available to the union. so while the debate within countries remains the focus of attention, i am extremely positive about the willingness of the commission and parliament to make some changes to the legislation to ensure greater safety and greater participation of the populations concerned in nuclear decisions. however, i agree with the legal affairs committee that there should be no major changes to the case law on this subject, which appears to be dealt with in a more than satisfactory manner by the euratom treaty.
in writing. - the purpose of this directive is to maintain and promote the improvement of nuclear safety, leaving the member states with the necessary powers to define appropriate national regimes in this respect. it also covers vital questions of staff responsibility and training. i think it is very constructive and therefore i vote in favour.
in writing. - the purpose of this directive is to maintain and promote the improvement of nuclear safety, leaving the member states with the necessary powers to define appropriate national regimes in this respect. it also covers vital questions of staff responsibility and training. i think it is very constructive and therefore i vote in favour.
in writing. - whereas the commission has proposed that the nuclear safety directive 2009/71/euratom be revised in the following areas: safety procedures and frameworks, role and tools of nuclear regulatory authorities, transparency, control and verification, i voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - the current regulatory framework for nuclear safety in the community needs to be strengthened and the commission's proposal is moving in the right direction. for convenience and consistency i agree with the rapporteur that he has proposed to adopt the same terminology as that used by the international atomic energy agency (iaea). of course, the independence of the regulatory authorities must be fully guaranteed, as must the initiation of self-assessments and peer reviews. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that it is not able to meet the needs of the people of europe.
in writing. - i share the views expressed in the kekuš report analysing the proposal to amend directive 2011/96/eu on the common system of taxation applicable in the member states to parent companies and subsidiaries. i think it is essential to correct the shortcomings of the existing directive which are exploited every year to evade billions of euros in tax withholdings by transferring profits between companies and their subsidiaries located in different member states.
in writing. - i think it is necessary to introduce rules on taxation between parent companies and subsidiaries operating in different member states. this is the way to achieve the uniformity of law which gives greater certainty and security to legal relations. these are also important objectives in the tax field. i therefore vote in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - mr president, the stockholm programme represents an important step for all citizens, with concrete actions to achieve the european area of freedom, security and justice. there have been important advances: the european union has already taken a number of measures to protect children in the european union, such as the european protection order directive, the directive on the rights, assistance and protection of victims of crime, and the many measures for the protection of children in the european union. since the current internal security strategy will end in 2014, the commission should start preparing a new strategy for the period 2015-2019 which takes into account the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon and the integration of the charter of fundamental rights into union law. the tangible rights of european citizenship, the creation of a european judicial area to enable citizens to assert their rights everywhere in the union, the development of an internal security strategy of the union to ensure the protection of citizens and the fight against organised crime and terrorism must be given priority.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the mid-term review of the stockholm programme. the report gives a precise account of the initiatives taken and the work still to be done to create a common european area of freedom, security and justice. in particular, the implementation of the chapter of the stockholm programme on the protection of citizens' rights needs to be stepped up, especially with regard to the verification of the respect by member states, as required of candidate countries, of the fundamental rights enshrined in article 2 tfeu. accession to the european convention on human rights will only strengthen the protection of citizens' fundamental rights and freedoms. judicial cooperation at european level in the various fields and the development of a genuine european legal culture appear to be essential to achieving the objective of creating a single area of justice. finally, i am firmly convinced that, alongside the progress made in other areas, there is still much work to be done in relation to pre-trial detention, administrative detention and the detention of minors, where the rules in many european countries do not fully respect human rights, as is clearly shown in the report by the colleagues from the three parliamentary committees which drafted the text.
in writing. - the 'stockholm programme an open and secure europe serving and protecting citizens' was adopted in 2009 and aims to strengthen the union's area of freedom, security and justice. it aims to strengthen european citizenship and its rights, to build a european legal area by harmonising civil and criminal law, to build a secure europe by cooperating in criminal matters and police forces, to strengthen integrated border management and to develop a migration policy based on solidarity with migrants. i supported the report because it calls for more to be done. the state of implementation of the programme does not correspond to the objectives it contains. the council also adopted a resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia and the situation in the former yugoslavia. in the field of internal security, improvements are needed in certain areas such as cybercrime, the protection of critical infrastructure and the fight against corruption and money laundering. little has been done on legal immigration and the fair sharing of responsibility between countries in managing migration flows.
in writing. - i think that the transversal report proposed by my colleagues is acceptable and i therefore support its approval by parliament. the stockholm programme aimed to strengthen european citizenship and its rights, to build a secure europe through cooperation in criminal matters and between the police forces of the member states against transnational crime, to strengthen borders and to develop a migration policy based on solidarity with migrants and respect for the needs of the member states. i believe that this was a great step forward, but at the same time, as the rapporteurs have pointed out, much remains to be done to develop the great potential of this programme to its full potential. i therefore share the rapporteur's various and well-reasoned observations and proposals so that we can start 2015 off with a new leaf in the fields of internal security, judicial cooperation, borders and visas, and asylum and migration. i believe that the qualitative leap can be made through greater cooperation between the union's institutions, in order to create a fully-fledged and well-functioning area of freedom, security and justice.
in writing. - the report adopts a lax and permissive attitude on the question of immigration and free movement. it is proposed that the borders be opened up even more, not to mention the many problems involved. i think that the proposal should be revised and therefore i am voting against it.
in writing. - today we approved the mid-term review of the stockholm programme. the basic objectives are to facilitate the free movement of citizens and residents of the union and to take concrete action in the field of civil law. judicial cooperation is an important tool for achieving these objectives, allowing all the rights and obligations arising from a european area of justice to be respected and safeguarded. the stockholm programme is therefore in line with the eu's ambitions to promote as far as possible an adequate level of protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, but i believe that despite the progress made to date, the commitment still needs to be stepped up.
in writing. - when i first entered the european parliament, i strongly supported the stockholm programme, which set out the european union's priorities in the areas of justice, freedom and security for the period 2010-2014. there have been many successes, but in many areas there is still much to be done. i am thinking in particular of the promotion and protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms and of judicial cooperation in civil and criminal matters, areas for which adequate planning is urgently needed in the near future. until we achieve full harmonization in these areas, the fundamental freedoms of european citizens will always be confronted with insurmountable obstacles.
in writing. - having regard to the joint meeting of the committees - article 51 of the rules of procedure - on the mid-term review of the stockholm programme, i voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - the copenhagen dilemma must be solved, which fails to provide instruments to ensure optimum standards in the member states, and i think that the establishment of a committee of this kind can facilitate the solution of this problem. i also believe that the confidence of the european citizens must be restored, as the financial crisis is turning into a full-blown diplomatic crisis. as regards judicial cooperation in civil and criminal matters, i believe that we must continue along the path of mutual recognition of legal situations, judgments and documents, as this does not imply enormous changes at national level, while at the same time reducing the bureaucratic and financial burdens. finally, on the question of borders, i welcome the reform of the mandate of frontex and the agreement on eurosur, but i would like to stress that external border control is and remains a european problem, and not merely a national one, which is why any national egoism must be abandoned in favour of the creation of a solidarity instrument which does not impose an excessive burden on individual member states.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because i consider of fundamental importance the need to continuously enhance the effectiveness and coherence of the eu’s strategic export controls regime, ensuring a high level of security and adequate transparency. in particular i would like to underline that export controls, as a security-related trade instrument, remain, more than ever, at the forefront of international non-proliferation efforts.
in writing. - i am in favour of an agreement between the european parliament and the council on the regime for dual-use goods and that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i find the report acceptable and i announce a vote in favour. in global economies increasingly influenced by the ict sector, which is pervasive to the point of being the architecture on which all essential functions of not only the public sector but also the private sector (credit, logistics, trade, etc.) are based, it was inevitable that the dual use problem of these technologies would have a major impact. recent developments confirm the position of parliament and the union. from the nsa scandal to civil rights abuses in the middle east to forms of police surveillance in the people's republic of china, we are facing a scenario where such technologies can be used in contravention of international conventions and the common sense of our fellow citizens. in the meantime, we note that agreements are increasingly being made between multinational companies and governments using such technologies in the sense indicated above. the community regime solution can be an effective response, especially where parliament, the commission and the council are committed to developing legislative mechanisms and automata capable of overcoming the problem of 'delay' associated with updates of annexes containing products and technologies subject to the control system.
in writing. - this post-lisbon alignment proposal can effectively contribute to the simplification of the procedures of the eu export control regime by introducing a delegated act procedure for periodic updates of annex i and amendments to annex ii. i am also aware of the large majority in the committee on international trade which approved the final text as a result of the negotiations, and i fully support the text.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report which offers a balanced, practical and positive approach to the problem for all european citizens.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mr liese on the amendment of directive 2003/87/ec establishing a system for the trading of greenhouse gas emission allowances in the field of international air transport. the proposal adopted today is a temporary solution, pending international agreement on the delicate issue of reducing co2 emissions from aviation at icao on a single global measure to be applied from 2020. only internationally agreed solutions implemented collectively will be able to contribute to an effective reduction of carbon dioxide emissions in our skies and remove the threat of unnecessary trade disputes between regional blocs and global aviation giants, as threatened by several parties. the eu is once again confirming its leadership role in the fight against climate change, but it is now necessary that our third country partners and the major economic operators in the aviation sector also contribute to this common objective to defend the future of the planet. it is therefore hoped that the icao negotiations will, after this vote by the european parliament, find new impetus for the definition of common solutions.
in writing. - i supported the proposal because its objective is to promote the icao negotiation towards an agreement on a single global measure to reduce aviation emissions that should apply from 2020. the ets-aviation proposal aims to apply the ets to european regional airspace rather than to all flights arriving at and departing from airports located there. this is a temporary solution pending the adoption of a global measure. the icao general assembly adopted a resolution on climate change, which commits to a single global market measure for international aviation emissions by 2016 and to its operationalization by 2020. in the absence of agreement, the ets would be re-implemented for all flights and operators would have to surrender their allowances by 30 april 2014. this outcome would have been likely to be seriously counterproductive to the success of the icao negotiations. this compromise is directed at the industries concerned as well as at consumers. this is an important step towards the future implementation of an international agreement for the application of a global measure for the whole aviation sector.
in writing. - europe has always paid close attention to the protection of the environment. the aviation sector, because of its complexity, is the least regulated sector in this field to date. as a result, its emissions risk undermining all efforts in other areas. the need to impose an emissions trading system has been known for a long time, but it often clashes with the interests of airlines and the unfair behaviour of third countries. i therefore vote in favour of this report, which, by introducing the system at the level of 'european airspace', guarantees greater coverage of emission allowances and a fairer redistribution of burdens between european and non-european carriers. finally, i agree with the rapporteur that it is not appropriate to consider an extension of the suspension of time limits as a solution. i accept that regional (european) legislation alone is not the final solution but, pending a global approach to the issue (we hope to have answers from icao in 2016), this project is demonstrative as well as practical.
in writing. - the report on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive amends directive 2003/87/ec and establishes a system for greenhouse gas emission allowance trading within the community. i think that we should continue to take action to counter the greenhouse effect, which is highly damaging to everyone. so i vote in favour of it.
in writing. - while i fully support the commission's proposal, a number of amendments were necessary, particularly to strengthen european ambition in the field of the environment and equal treatment with regard to other areas. it was also important to point out that some member states are reluctant to implement the legislation, while third countries refuse to surrender allowances for flights within europe, which is unacceptable.
in writing. - i have always been a strong supporter of electronic money and i can see myself in mr zalba's report, for which i am voting in favour. there is broad agreement on the value of electronic payments in relation to the single market and the fight against tax evasion and the black economy. among the wide range of studies on the subject, i point to a 2013 european-wide benchmarking analysis by bankitalia, which reveals how income and the spread of card payment access points are actually the factors reducing the demand for cash. the zalba report is therefore focused when it addresses the issue of rentals from pos, operator or credit institutions in three- and four-channel schemes, which impose excessive fees on consumers and unsustainable charges on retailers for the use of pos services, in effect encouraging a return to cash. the use of electronic payment also presupposes a reasonable degree of fraud protection on the part of the consumer and certain levels of income and financial literacy. if it is more difficult to intervene on income, certainly the innovations in the regulation are a powerful incentive to a more lively and therefore wider and safer market.
in writing. - the limitation of credit and debit card costs will benefit consumers and retailers. i have chosen to support the proposal because it provides for more favourable rates for european citizens when paying by credit or debit card and standardisation of the rules for online transactions. this is an important step towards the harmonisation of payment services, which creates a level playing field for this market in the european union, promoting its competitiveness and innovation. today, each member state has different and unclear laws governing online card payments, thus creating a fragmented payments market costing €130 billion a year. the new legislation aims instead to establish a level playing field which will help to defragment this market, bringing great benefits to both consumers and retailers. the payment services directive also aims to make it easier and safer to use online payment services. the booming world of e-commerce will finally be subject to strict european supervision rules to protect consumers from fraud and other possible abuses.
in writing. - i voted in favour because i consider this proposal for a regulation to be a genuinely necessary one in order to improve the situation of the internal market and consumers and to allow for a greater spread of electronic payments as envisaged in the europe 2020 strategy and the green paper. interbank fees which are charged to merchants as a fair cost which they must pay for a service which is safer than cash and which guarantees a larger user base, are in reality often passed on to the final consumer who is thus forced to pay for a service from which another person benefits. the european commission has already proposed a number of measures to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states on the use of credit cards and debit cards.
in writing. - among the many things the report deals with, i welcome the first amendment. national measures risk creating significant obstacles to the completion of the internal market in the area of payments by card, internet or mobile card-based devices. there would be a risk of hindering the freedom to provide services. these measures are a burden on business and are unfairly imposed on citizens. i therefore think i must vote in favour.
in writing. - cashless transactions play a crucial role in the functioning of economies as they are fast, secure and innovative, but the achievement of an integrated eu market is hampered by the existence of multilateral interbank fees. i have supported this proposal for a regulation because i believe that it is necessary to limit the fees that banks charge retailers for processing credit and debit card payments. this taxation costs european retailers around eur 10 billion each year and retailers raise the prices of the goods or services they sell to support these costs. but by limiting the fees banks charge for transitions over time, users will benefit from lower prices.
in writing. - the improvement of the internal market for payments is an important step towards the overall completion of the european internal market. the development of a card acceptance network should therefore be promoted, with ceilings on interbank fees for domestic and cross-border transactions. at the same time, i agree that it is essential to create the appropriate instruments to ensure the proper functioning of the market.
in writing. - according to data released by the ecb in 2012, the number of credit card payments has quadrupled since 2000. the growth rate, although less spectacular, was recorded for electronic transactions (e.g. payments by bank transfer), the expansion of the pos and atm networks. the old paper bank cheque is being used less and less. these figures have been included in the extensive consultations and impact assessments underlying the proposal for a directive which is the subject of today's report, and which i shall be voting in favour of. the text analyses a number of developments by correcting distortions and legislative gaps which have left room for unfair practices to the detriment of consumers. i refer to forecasts such as those in articles 3, on the abuse of the exemption for limited networks, 55 on tariffs, 92) on the effectiveness of sanctions, and the repeal of the old article 3), which has led to the proliferation of fake spin-offs aimed at applying exorbitant user fees, with the aggravating factor in some cases of explicitly targeting a vulnerable user, identified through specific profiling activities on a detailed geographical basis. this ambitious reform removes serious obstacles to innovation in a particularly dynamic sector with a high potential for the application of new technologies, which is the subject of eu policy papers.
in writing. - strongly supporting the need to encourage the use of electronic money, i voted in favour of this report which introduces indications in favour of an increasingly competitive and secure electronic payments market. the need to increase the use of payments with new technological tools provides significant benefits for consumers, merchants and public funds by effectively combating counterfeiting and evasion. the objective of this report is to create an internal market for electronic payments which does not discriminate between credit/debit circuits in order to ensure the entry of new players into the market. with the consequent increase in user convenience, it is also hoped that these payment methods will be progressively used more by consumers with the associated benefits. the key aspects of the text are to ensure a level playing field between all categories of payment service providers and to ensure an increasingly secure system, and i therefore fully agree with the rapporteur's position.
in writing. - the development of the electronic payments market is a step in the right direction with the digitalisation of the economy and markets, which is also being strongly advocated by a number of stakeholders. moreover, the absence of such a market would bring several disadvantages to market operators and consumers, who would be burdened with enormous financial burdens.
in writing. - today's vote is a significant step forward towards the single telecommunications market and a further step towards the practical realisation of the free movement of european citizens who will finally be free to use their mobile phones without changing operator and tariff in any country of the european union. all additional charges for international roaming within the eu will be zeroed by december 2015. telephone calls, text messages and internet browsing will be free of charge for all european citizens within any other member state of the union. in addition, electronic signatures and certificates will be better protected by a more secure online environment through the mutual recognition of electronic identification systems by member states.
in writing. - the world economy is transforming into an internet-based economy and the role of ict (telecommunication infrastructure company) as a key element for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth needs to be recognised. i therefore voted in favour of this report which introduces a number of new benefits for european consumers.
in writing. - today the european parliament has broken down one of the most symbolic barriers still present in europe in a society which, despite a continuing economic crisis, has sought to look to the future and adapt to the rapid changes in electronic communications. the elimination of roaming charges by 2015 is a significant step towards the creation of a single telecommunications market in europe, an important step towards the effective completion of a genuine internal eu single market. the move towards a single european tariff is therefore a small but significant step in demonstrating that the european union is not just an economic and monetary union and that our participation in europe can bring real added value to citizens through concrete measures that improve and simplify their everyday lives. i also think that the provisions adopted to strengthen the principle of net neutrality, including the prohibition of blocking everyday online services such as skype for economic reasons, are significant. we hope that the council and therefore the governments will be able to confirm definitively the introduction of these important measures for the citizens of europe as soon as possible.
in writing. - first of all, let me say that berec has done well in its institutional tasks, particularly in relation to the measure under consideration today. i also agree with the report, especially where it proposes some important and reinforcing clarifications of the public and social value of the subject in the coordinated text. in this sense, i welcome the forecasts to ensure that services are actually available to citizens, for example in terms of access to technologies that are now integrated into everyday life such as skype, in the face of the tendency shown by some operators to surreptitiously shift demand towards more expensive services. also good is the drastic perimeter of the requirements necessary for the interruption of web communication services: in a liberal form of government, given the right to freedom and confidentiality of communications, it is right that such protocols should be triggered on a case-by-case basis by specific measures of the competent civil or criminal justice body or by documented security and public safety requirements. finally, i see the deadline for free intra-eu roaming as a logical step forward from the previous capping regulation and as one of the cornerstones of the single market, comparable in importance to the first principles of the acquis communautaire, dating back to maastricht.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the draft regulation because it abolishes roaming charges for calls, sms and data downloads by the end of 2015 and strengthens net neutrality. this is a major step towards strengthening the single telecommunications market. the proposal also includes provisions on the expansion of radio spectrum which will allow 4g and 5g coverage to be extended to the whole of europe. by 2017, 85% of the world's population will have 3g coverage, 50% will be covered by 4g, and global data traffic will grow 15 times compared to today. it is therefore clear that radio spectrum is a key resource for the internal market and the future competitiveness of the european union. the new regulation also provides for additional safeguards to maintain the openness of the internet by ensuring that all users can access it, and to strengthen it as a key factor in competitiveness, economic growth, social development and innovation. the telecommunications market is expected to create as many as 5 million new jobs in europe over the next ten years.
in writing. - finally, the european parliament has taken a clear position on roaming and net neutrality. the proposal for a regulation is much more complex than that, but i shall simply stress these two aspects. on the first point, i do not understand the european commission's intentions: the so-called roaming iii regulation, which provides, inter alia, for competition only in the roaming sector and allows the addition of another operator to the same sim card only for calls made and received when abroad, came into force less than a year ago. so they asked the telephone companies for investments which less than a year later turn out to be worthless, and that puzzles me. i am rather in favour of abolishing roaming charges to better integrate the internal market. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the whole of the european union, including the european union's external borders. i understand the technical issues that are necessary to allow access to the entire network, but we cannot distort the internet into an elitist project. the commission will continue to work on the development of the network, on the improvement of the cloud, but without stopping the development of more specialised innovations.
in writing. - the single market for electronic communications is of paramount importance for a better digital economy. in order to allow europe to fully exploit the growth, competitiveness and job creation potential of the digital single market, the role of telecommunications needs to be promoted. the importance of this market and the proposed measures call for a positive vote.
in writing. - the european single market for electronic communications is at the heart of the digital economy. i believe that the role of telecommunications in ensuring innovation and connectivity in all sectors of the economy needs to be promoted. that is why i voted in favour of this report, which supports the opening up of the internet at competitive prices to all individuals and businesses, buyers and sellers, suppliers and consumers. i agree with the rapporteur's proposal and believe that roaming charges, i.e. the additional costs of using a mobile phone to call, send sms or access the internet in another eu country, should be abolished. i hope that the next european parliament will continue the work done in this legislature, so that we can abolish roaming charges across the eu by 15 december 2015.
in writing. - today's vote expresses the will to create a single telecommunications market. the european project is to abolish roaming charges by 1 july 2016. telephone companies will not be allowed to charge higher rates for calls made within europe and will be prohibited from charging a special rate for calls received in roaming. this is the europe we like, which protects consumers, takes account of the needs of citizens and guarantees new rights for consumers, harmonised throughout the community, offering more transparency in contracts and advantages for traders thanks to a simplification of the legislation which they will be able to take advantage of to operate in the 28 member states.
in writing. - finally, the report puts in black and white what many had hoped for: as from 15 december 2015, 'roaming providers shall not apply any surcharge over national mobile communications tariffs to roaming customers in all member states for the provision of regulated roaming calls, regulated sms/mms roaming or regulated data roaming services, and shall not apply any general tariff to enable the use of terminal equipment or services abroad. "i would say that this is definitely a win for everyone, starting with the citizens, who will not have to pay a fortune when they are abroad. i would add that this is also in a sense a victory for europe, for a european union which for once seems to be in the interests of the people and not of the big multinationals. these are the kinds of initiatives that the european union should always take, and we are prepared to applaud and thank it for them. i am therefore pleased that this is the starting point for such an important and significant measure.
in writing. - more than 200 telephone operators follow different rules and offer different rates to their customers, a fragmented market of 510 million european citizens. i voted in favour of the new package of new rules which will have a significant impact on the telecommunications market. i support the abolition of roaming charges from 15 december 2015 and the fact that internet providers will no longer be able to block or slow down the services of their competitors. protecting the right to neutral access to the internet means protecting the internet itself with its characteristics of openness and innovation. in this case, legal certainty is guaranteed by defining the rights of final consumers and the obligations of telecommunications operators which result from them. it therefore remains essential that the provision of specialised services is based on strict guarantees in order to safeguard the quality and neutrality of network access. i also believe that early withdrawal charges are unfair and arbitrary and are imposed by traders to force consumers into a contract.
in writing. - the abolition of roaming for voice, sms and data services is a major milestone in the completion of the internal market and has a strong symbolic value, as it will remove a significant financial burden on european citizens. in this sense, the principle of openness and freedom of access to the internet, a fundamental pillar for the proper development and completion of the european market, becomes fundamental. i also support and agree with the emphasis on the freedom to provide electronic communications throughout the union, but as this is a very complex subject, great care must be taken in the implementation of this system. as regards the proposals on wholesale access products and quality assured service, a general consultation is likely to be needed to better understand how to proceed on the subject.
in writing. - the european parliament has repeatedly stressed the importance of the security of electronic services. there is currently no comprehensive union cross-border and cross-sector framework ensuring secure, reliable and user-friendly electronic transactions, including electronic identification, authentication and trust services. the existing union legislation, namely directive 1999/93/ec on a community framework for electronic signatures, is limited to electronic signatures only. the adoption of rules to ensure the mutual recognition of electronic identification and authentication across the union is one of the key actions of the roadmap for stability and economic growth. in this context, while welcoming the commission's proposal and welcoming the efforts to establish a legal framework at union level in this area, i nevertheless believe that the objectives and content of the proposed regulation should be further clarified. in my view, the commission's proposal, in its present form, is too vaguely defined to be adequately assessed by the legislator. with regard to electronic identification schemes, i agree with the rapporteur that it is desirable to achieve technical interoperability between member states without significantly altering the national solutions chosen by individual countries, depending on their specific characteristics.
in writing. - i found the report balanced and concrete, not to mention that the potential benefits of this measure are enormous. online trade could become more reliable and an undertaking could participate electronically in a public procurement procedure initiated by a member state or sign contracts electronically with entities located in other member states. i therefore voted in favour of the text.
in writing. - when it comes to promoting innovation, we cannot forget the business generated daily on the internet. of course, e-commerce is not the only area to invest in, but allowing physical barriers to be removed undoubtedly rewards the most competitive firms. there are two areas that are still unresolved and apparently need regulatory intervention because the market either cannot or will not find the solutions on its own, and those are delivery services and online payment services. we have already dealt with the former recently, while this proposal for a regulation aims to update the existing directive and bring it up to date. the proposal achieves both objectives effectively and in a timely manner, by strengthening the internal market with the legal instrument chosen and safeguarding the interests of consumers on the one hand and of businesses on the other. for these reasons i have helped to get this proposal approved.
in writing. - existing european legislation is not able to ensure secure, reliable and user-friendly electronic transactions, including electronic identification, authentication and trust services. the existing european legislation must therefore be amended in this direction. i vote in favour.
in writing. - since the proposal does not resolve in a decisive and radical way the problem of familiarity between controller and controlled, i have decided to abstain.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of mr karim's report because i believe that the proposed amendments make significant changes to the regulation presented by the european commission. in this particular context, where the financial crisis we are experiencing has raised doubts about the proper functioning of the european audit regime, especially with regard to public interest audits, a more robust audit process and a more dynamic audit market are a necessary step towards strengthening investor protection in the context of the publication of financial statements by companies. for these reasons i think i can agree with the amendments tabled by my colleague, and i particularly welcome the amendments relating to the call for tenders and joint auditing, the request to encourage audit committees to take a more active role in decisions concerning non-audit service providers, the request to provide the european group of auditors' supervisory bodies with better tools to manage the tasks assigned to it and, finally, the proposal to establish a regular dialogue forum to discuss developments observed in the markets.
in writing. - i voted in favour of opening up the eu audit market to new firms to improve the quality, transparency and avoidance of conflicts of interest. i believe that in order to improve the quality of auditing, eu auditors should publish audit reports in line with international standards. public-interest entities such as banks, insurance companies and listed companies will have to provide shareholders and investors with detailed information on what the auditor has actually done and provide a comprehensive guarantee of his work.
in writing. - the 2008 financial crisis raised doubts about the proper functioning of the european audit regime, especially with regard to public-interest entities. the weaknesses in the banking sector are clearly attributable to insufficient supervision and inadequate regulatory safeguards. whether and to what extent better audit rules could have averted the crisis is debatable, but a more robust audit process and a more dynamic audit market are undoubtedly a better guarantee of control. for the purposes of this report, due consideration has been given to issues relating to improving the quality of audit services and competition in the audit market and to the approximation of the rules of practice in the eu. the attention paid to the costs for firms and investors, the users of audit services, who must strike a balance between costs and benefits, is also appreciated. in some cases, however, the proposals represent an unreasonable burden on firms and introduce side-costs with uncertain benefits. the quality of auditing needs to be at the top of any reform, as stakeholders and investors need to have confidence in the system to continue investing in companies.
in writing. - i share and support the objectives underlying the commission's proposal and support the choice to pursue a maximum level of harmonisation for public interest entities (pis) through the adoption of the regulatory instrument. highly harmonised rules on independence and the prevention of conflicts of interest for the audits of pis are fundamental elements for a proper statutory audit. i also support the obligation to rotate audit firms regularly and greater cooperation between the competent authorities and between the competent authorities and the european securities and markets authority (esma), which should be the backbone of supervision at european level and for which i would have preferred a stronger role.
in writing. - as there are very serious doubts as to whether the proposal in question can adequately guarantee the independence and autonomy necessary for the proper performance of the audit task, i abstained.
in writing. - measures have been taken to stabilise the world and european union financial system which they did not consider to be an important element, that of the auditors. the role and impact of banks, hedge funds, rating agencies, supervisory authorities or central banks have been analysed very often, but accountants have not been considered. i think it is important, however, to analyse all the components of the financial system in the light of a historic crisis for the european union and the west in particular. i therefore welcome the directive proposed by the european commission and the amendments to the text by the rapporteur, mr karim. i welcome the work being done to improve the internal market for statutory audits, so as to enable small and mediumsized enterprises to develop, and at the same time to encourage the entry of new operators. as i have already done with mr karim's other report, i shall vote in favour of this one.
in writing. - it is desirable that voluntary audits should be excluded from the application of the audit provisions as currently provided for, because the commission proposal would involve a higher cost and an additional administrative burden for small and mediumsized enterprises. at a very particular moment, when our companies are doing everything possible to get out of the crisis, it is not conceivable to give them an additional economic burden to bear. furthermore, while additional access to capital may help smaller audit firms to close the gap with major international networks, the removal of the majority of voting rights requirements for statutory auditors, which allows a third party to hold such a majority, risks undermining the independence of the profession.
in writing. - the report proposes to cut 98.1% of the duties on products from ukraine and that is why i did not support it.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of this report because i am in favour of the fact that the legislative proposal under consideration can be passed without amendments and without further amendments, given the urgency of the situation in ukraine. the difficult political situation of recent months, the considerable pressure exerted by putin on the crimean territory and the outcome of the referendum on the annexation of crimea to the russian federation mean that the new government in kiev needs strong and immediate assistance from europe to counter external pressures and overcome economic and financial difficulties. for these reasons i agree with the rapporteur that ukraine should be given prompt help through 'unilateral trade preferences' by temporarily and unilaterally reducing trade barriers to imports of ukrainian goods into the european union, thus helping ukrainian enterprises to increase the volume of their imports and diversify their export destinations. the measures will be valid until the eu and ukraine sign and provisionally apply the comprehensive and deep free trade area, a major step forward for the two partners with a view to future agreements.
in writing. - i voted against because this unilateral measure, which according to the technocrats in brussels should help the economy of ukraine by saving its exporters eur 487 million a year, takes no account at all of the likely negative repercussions on the sectors concerned in the european union countries, and in particular in italy, both in the agricultural and industrial fields. the commission has also taken into account the fact that the ukrainian authorities have not yet taken any action to address the concerns raised by the commission in the context of the investigation.
in writing. - the proposal seeks to grant preferential treatment to ukraine which, in addition to being unjustified, raises problems of discrimination with other non-eu trading partners. i vote against.
in writing. - given the difficult political situation in ukraine, i agree to provide the new government with strong and immediate assistance to counter external pressures and overcome economic and financial difficulties. i therefore support the commission's proposal to eliminate about 98% of the existing customs duties on imports of iron and steel, agricultural products and machinery from ukraine. the measure is expected to save ukrainian exporters eur 487 million per year. i think this is a useful and reasonable proposal because it will help ukrainian companies to increase the volume of their exports and to diversify their import destinations. this measure should not alarm european producers and consumers, who will be protected: the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's new rules on the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
in writing. - that is the way brussels is trying to buy ukraine, by unilaterally removing almost all the duties or quotas on ukrainian goods that we import into the union. the effects of this rash, or at least premature, measure will perhaps be felt in a few months' time, when perhaps some of our companies will be in crisis as a result of competition from ukrainian products on the market. the european union should reflect before taking such initiatives, which are wrong in time, manner and substance: the situation in the former soviet republic is still far from being defined and stabilized. more or less legitimate street riots have in fact overturned the outcome of regular elections, and it is still unclear who is in power today in kiev. i had organized a conference with ukrainian politicians and trade unionists in strasbourg last month to have an internal debate on the difficult situation in the country. what has emerged, for example, is the presence of important fringes that explicitly refer to nazi ideology, which i do not think is one of the values on which europe should be founded. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report and for the work he has done.
in writing. - i support the strong political and economic support that the commission intends to give to ukraine, which is expressed in a reasonable and effective proposal, temporarily and unilaterally reducing trade barriers to imports of ukrainian goods into the eu to the extent agreed bilaterally during the negotiations on the eu-ukraine comprehensive and enhanced free trade area. this will help ukrainian enterprises to increase their export volumes and diversify export destinations, allowing kiev to save several hundred million eur in the coming months, improve the country's balance of payments situation and restore economic and financial stability by alleviating the risk of currency devaluation in the country.
in writing. - the report, which i did not support, proposes a seat for the european union in the united nations security council and insists that the high representative should draw up a common position on this subject in the european council.
in writing. - eu external action is probably the policy area where there is the greatest room for improvement. the eu has consistently failed the leadership test in the face of recent crises and has weakened overall, just where the obama administration's objective realignment would have allowed for a growing european role, at least in the chessboards where we are engaged with csdp operations. it would be naive to attribute these failures solely to the pro tempore hr/vp's leadership or ability to introduce effective policies or strategies. it is rather a systemic problem, which, as the rapporteur rightly points out, is due to the non-compliance with the principle of cfsp as laid down in article 208 tfeu. the report sets out a series of measures in a comprehensive approach to promote the principles of consistency, effectiveness and economy of external action. i share the philosophy of the three pillars: the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. i therefore approve the report with one caveat: the scattered ways in which the member states have dealt with the crises of recent years, from the arab spring to mali to lampedusa, call into question the principle of loyalty and mutual solidarity in external action as set out in the article of the treaty of lisbon.
in writing. - i supported the report because it highlights the importance of effective coordination and greater coherence in the european union's external action, but above all it stresses the fact that the lisbon treaty offers the union the framework for a more coherent, united and comprehensive approach to effectively pursue its external relations. despite the innovations of the lisbon treaty, unfortunately no progress has yet been made in the coherence of external action in areas such as development, trade, energy, environment and migration and other global issues. the proposal considers that the concept of a global approach should be understood as a coordinated activity of all the relevant institutions (the eeas and the relevant services of the commission but also the parliament and the council) and recalls that the treaty of lisbon established the eeas and the high representative with the triple function of providing homogeneity, coherence, visibility and effectiveness to the eu's external action. finally, the report reiterates that the potential of all three roles has not been fully exploited, calls for the essential coordinating role of the high representative to be strengthened and for better forecasting of the financial needs for implementing eu strategies.
in writing. - i welcome the motion for a resolution which aims to specify and supplement the concept of a global approach and to define its implications for the coherence of the european union's external action. in view of the considerable strategic changes taking place in other parts of the world and the emergence of a multipolar international scene, i find the calls made in this report to achieve greater institutional coherence, financial coherence, coherence in practice and the fruitful development of partnerships in the policies of the union to be welcome. coordinated action by all relevant institutions must address the institutional and procedural gaps that have hampered the eu's coherent external action and damaged the union's credibility as a global actor and guarantor of security. mediation and dialogue, as well as respect for human rights and the eradication of poverty, must remain the cornerstones of european external action. the link between development and prevention must be strengthened, as the rapporteur rightly calls for, and at the same time the sharing of information must be regular and transparent. finally, i welcome the rapporteur's request for the european union to have a seat on the un security council.
in writing. - i doubt that such an approach would be conducive to a stronger international presence and strength of the eu in the various international scenarios. i also believe that each state should be able to manage its international policy freely on certain issues. for these reasons i shall vote against.
in writing. - the comprehensive approach to the eu's external action is a goal which the union must achieve as soon as possible if it is to maintain a long-term and decisive international political role. the various european instruments for external action, from development aid to civil and military missions in the csdp, need to be supported and a general strategic framework within which to act must be ensured, addressing the root causes of regional instability in certain areas and, more generally, the root causes undermining international peace. i share the rapporteur's view that the horn of africa is a laboratory which has shown great results, thanks to the launch of three different csdp missions, the fight against poverty and the establishment of relations with local authorities. i regret that the eu has not been able to act in a similar and better way in the sahel region, despite the extensive macro-strategic planning that preceded european action, but i am convinced that this is still the way forward to assert the eu's global actorness in the field of international security.
in writing. - the report contains explicit references to roma-friendly policies. that is why i did not intend to grant discharge.
in writing. - i consider the commission to be one of the fundamental institutions of our european union. the role it plays in the lives of european citizens can be enormous, for good or for ill. that is why the sound management of its annual accounts, of how the money at its disposal is spent and invested, must be guaranteed and absolutely transparent. i am voting in favour of this report, in order to grant discharge to the commission and the executive agencies, as i consider that the work of the court of auditors is valuable and impactful and that the fact that the annual accounts, in all relevant respects, faithfully present the financial position of the union, the results of its operations, cash flows and changes in net assets for the year ended 31 december 2012 can only be positive. much remains to be done to improve the overall management of the accounts of the commission and the executive agencies, especially in the areas that have the most impact on our lives every day. i think that the rapporteur's remarks are well-founded and well-reasoned.
in writing. - having regard to the proposal for a european parliament resolution with observations forming an integral part of the decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2012, section iii - commission and executive agencies, i voted in favour of the proposal,
in writing. - the report is unclear and contains some criticisms which have led me to abstain.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the following motion for a resolution of the european parliament because i consider the work carried out by the court of auditors in the analysis of compliance with the accounts for the financial year 2012 to be well-conducted and well-documented. at the same time i welcome the proposals and recommendations for each special report made by the court, as i believe that the contents of the reports are well analysed. the final objective of these reports, which i share, is to comply with the principle of sound financial management, and the commission, which is responsible for the budget and the management of the various programmes, must implement the budget in cooperation with the member states. i believe that much more can and must be done in this respect, and i hope that in the future there will be greater cooperation between the various institutions and the court of auditors. finally, i believe that the court of auditors' special reports provide information on matters of interest to the implementation of the funds and are very useful to parliament in its role as discharge authority.
in writing. - i have supported the granting of discharge because the report did not raise any criticisms or controversial points.
in writing. - i welcome the granting of discharge to the commission in respect of the implementation of the budget of the 8th, 9th and 10th european development funds and the closure of the accounts relating to the implementation of the funds' budget for the financial year 2012, and therefore i am voting in favour of the following report by my colleague. i think the european development funds are very important, as the main financial instrument of the union for development cooperation with the acp states (africa, caribbean and pacific) and for eradicating poverty and promoting growth. the european union also provides funding to non-governmental organisations in the humanitarian aid sector and to europeaid. i appreciate that the final annual accounts of the funds present a true and fair view, in all relevant respects, of the financial position of the edfs as at december 2012 and of the results of operations and cash flows for the year. the commission has also ensured that all the recommendations made by the court of auditors in its 2009 and 2010 annual reports on the implementation of the edfs have been implemented at least in part, and i can only be pleased about this.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the sonik report with the comments which form an integral part of the decision on discharge to the european council and the council. since the council has not provided the european parliament with the internal audit documents and has not attended the scheduled meetings, thus failing to provide the necessary full documentation, i have voted against the granting of discharge.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report rejecting the 2012 discharge proposal to the european council and the council, because i am again not satisfied with the answers received from the two institutions to the legitimate questions put by parliament during the process of examining the accounting documents. although some improvements are acknowledged, i regret that for the fourth year in a row parliament is forced not to grant discharge and to call on the european council and the council to work more closely with parliament in the interests of greater transparency. i also stress that the budgets should be separated (as they already are for all other institutions), thus ensuring greater clarity at the audit stage.
in writing. - this is an important step towards a europe which speaks directly to workers, guaranteeing mobility and above all adequate social security cover if they decide to move within our community territory. i would remind you that the social protection of workers in respect of pensions is guaranteed by compulsory social security schemes, supplemented by supplementary pension schemes linked to an employment contract, which are becoming increasingly important in the member states. the directive seeks to facilitate the mobility of workers between member states and at the same time aims to improve the acquisition and safeguarding of supplementary pension rights. for a europe that stands with the workers the
in writing. - although the report on the european external action service does not present any problems of note, it refers to an institution which is always in difficulty with regard to its expenditure. i did not therefore intend to grant discharge.
in writing. - i give my vote in favour of the following report, to the effect that the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy is to be given discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european external action service for the financial year 2012. i believe that a newly created institution like the eeas, in its first year of operation and with many technical challenges to overcome, has done a concrete and valuable job. it is also positive that the payments for the year ended 31 december 2012 for administrative and other expenditure of the institutions and bodies are free from material error, as declared by the court of auditors. i also appreciate the efforts made with regard to the staff employed by the eeas to reduce the imbalance in its administration. finally, i support the efforts of the eeas to prepare in the best possible way for the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework, and i welcome the cooperation between the commission's directorate-general for development and cooperation, the diplomatic services of the member states and the eeas itself.
in writing. - i voted against the discharge for the european external action service because it is a body which has no political value and no usefulness, because europe, for various reasons, does not speak a common language, not even in foreign policy. the positions of the member states are often very different and the eeas is certainly not a useful summary, but unfortunately it is simply a waste of time. hundreds of millions of euros are lost every year between the headquarters (in brussels) and the delegations around the world, and this is intolerable, especially when we consider the very little added value that this service brings. i would not be opposed to having no joint representations if that meant closing down unnecessary and very expensive national offices abroad. however, we must be very careful here too, because i would not like the interests of some countries to be at stake. however, what is certain is that the current situation is hardly sustainable, with double waste and no profit.
in writing. - i voted against this proposal to amend regulation (ec) no 1760/2000, despite the agreement reached in the trilogues with the commission and the council, because it involves unacceptable backward steps in the identification of bovine animals and the optional labelling of meat, and i regret that this house has decided to approve it. optional labelling is a guarantee for many european producers to avoid fictitious and false information and to ensure that consumers have the most detailed knowledge possible of the many characteristics of the products they consume, including the breed, sex and age of the animal, used feed, all the elements that european consumers increasingly ask us to know in order to make an informed and informed purchase, and that we should have ensured. today's decision is against transparency, differentiation and quality of beef and against the protection of consumers' health.
in writing. - following the bovine spongiform encephalopathy crisis in 2007, the eu has increasingly placed emphasis on food safety as a conditio sine qua non to protect european consumers, adopting stricter rules for the identification and traceability of bovine animals. while i am aware of the need to protect citizens first and foremost and consider it appropriate to harmonise national legislation on traceability, i have chosen to vote against this report because the proposed system would be detrimental to the information to be provided to consumers and would encourage unfair competition from foreign meat, adding enormous damage to the already badly affected beef cattle sector in italy.
in writing. - i voted against a text that pleases the lobbies of the 'anonymity industry' who want to abolish the voluntary labelling of beef against the interests of consumers and responsible producers.
in writing. - the report has the merit of responding to the food safety concerns of europeans, but it is of course cross-cutting and deals with other issues of no less importance. for example, a proper labelling regulation is a key tool in tackling illegal practices that have not yet been eradicated, such as the administration of anabolic drugs (regular seizures and investigations by member states' health authorities) or the breach of minimum animal welfare conditions, on which we took a decision in 2012. i would not personally be against a very strong approach to extending the electronic identification system to all european farms, allowing a reasonable transitional period calibrated by farm categories, which has been adopted for a set of regulations with a much greater impact on producers. however, the new measures should produce technological convergence effects and significant cost reductions in the short term. i am, however, in favour of strategies based on incentives and motivated cooperation between the groups concerned. the commission's proposed report could allow for a revision in the way i would like. as regards the content of our hic et nunc examination, i shall nevertheless vote in favour.
in writing. - i have chosen to support this proposal for a regulation because it aims to ensure the clarity and applicability of legislation on the identification and traceability of bovine animals in order to achieve an optimal level of food safety in the eu. food safety is one of the main concerns of european citizens. european legislation must therefore ensure optimum protection for them, by means of provisions updated and strengthened in the light of the new needs identified. the proposal will strengthen consumer safety in the beef and veal sector. the electronic identification of bovine animals makes it possible to obtain more reliable data and thus to strengthen the traceability system and food safety. it also makes it possible to speed up the registration of bovine animals, to automate certain operations and to ensure more efficient management of herds. it was necessary to adapt the current legislation, in particular to recognise electronic identification as an official means of identifying bovine animals. however, given the wide diversity of the situation of european bovine herds, electronic identification will remain optional for farmers, unless the member state concerned decides to make it compulsory in its territory.
in writing. - as consumer protection is one of the priorities of my parliamentary work, i quite agree with mrs auconie's report because i think that some of the proposals contained in it can really help to increase consumer confidence in beef farmers. however, i believe that the deletion of three articles of regulation (ec) no 1760/2000 (articles 16, 17 and 18) as provided for in amendment no 52 is a major mistake and i therefore voted against this amendment which cancels out part of the work presented in the text. the abolition of voluntary labelling, in my view, would undermine the information to be provided to consumers and encourage unfair competition from foreign meat, adding enormous damage to the already badly affected beef cattle sector. overall, however, i believe that the use of the best technology in a sector as important as livestock farming can help to raise the high standards of food safety required by the european union. i therefore approve the proposal and vote in favour of it, with the sole exception of amendment no 52, whose adoption by parliament gives me great concern for the future of livestock farming and for the guarantees for consumers.
in writing. - i voted against the proposal to change the rules on the voluntary labelling system for beef. by using the electronic identification system, operators would no longer be required to provide information useful to consumers for the purpose of an informed, informed and transparent purchase, such as the breed and sex of the animal, the feed used and the age of the bovine. i believe that electronic identification of cattle could be an effective system to ensure better transparency, but that this tool should be introduced gradually, through a transitional period of ten years, which gives farmers the opportunity to adapt to this new system.
in writing. - we have been asked today to comment on the report by mrs auconie on the electronic identification of cattle. food safety is undoubtedly one of the main concerns of the citizens of the european union, which must be able to ensure optimal management not only of the farming processes but also of the processing and marketing processes. the text put to the vote included the proposal to abolish the optional labelling of beef. in order to defend and protect the interests of european and italian consumers, i voted against this proposal, maintaining the current legislation.
in writing. - i voted against any proposal to repeal voluntary beef labelling and replace it with a generic reference to compliance with horizontal legislation on labelling (regulation (ec) no 1169/2001) because this would create a regulatory vacuum for operators, with the consequence of seeing different voluntary beef labelling systems proliferate without adequate and rigorous control mechanisms, and also resulting in a state of complete uncertainty for consumers and operators themselves. in italy, many operators have invested in and are successfully using this important tool to provide other useful information (such as the breed and sex of the animal, the feed used and the age of the bovine, etc.) that consumers are interested in for the purpose of a conscious, informed and transparent purchase. we must reward those who have worked in this direction and not mortify the efforts made so far.
in writing. - once again, a line has been adopted that is contrary to consumer protection and transparency: the reasons behind the abolition of voluntary labelling for beef are not understood. this was an opportunity to guarantee the origin, provenance and quality of the meat, a discretionary choice to preserve quality breeding and production. instead of making this system compulsory, it has chosen, on the contrary, to eliminate it completely, going in my view in a completely wrong direction. i am in favour of rules governing the electronic identification of cattle, as this will give us more reliable and certain data. in this case too, the method used seems reasonable to me, giving a certain discretion to farmers and member states in the management of this measure. the commission is therefore calling for greater transparency and security in the identification of bovine animals, but is also dividing up the labelling of meat: i think that is a rather distorted approach, which does not really guarantee the european consumer.
in writing. - having regard to the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 1760/2000 as regards the electronic identification of bovine animals, the simplification of labelling and the updating of the powers of the commission, and taking into account that food safety is one of the main concerns of european citizens, i voted against the proposal.
in writing. - the proposal to eliminate the current provisions on optional labelling for the electronic identification of bovine animals and beef and replace them with a generic reference to compliance with labelling legislation creates a regulatory vacuum for operators. the consequence of such forecasts is the increase in different beef labelling systems, without adequate and rigorous control mechanisms, which leads to total uncertainty for consumers and operators themselves. the economic impact of these forecasts on operators in italy who have invested in complying with this important instrument and have successfully used it, would affect consumer rights above all. the current system is designed to provide other useful information (such as the breed and sex of the animal, the feed used and the age of the bovine) for an informed, transparent and informed purchase. for these reasons i voted against the proposal to change the rules on the voluntary labelling system for beef. i believe that the amendment of the provisions on voluntary labelling does not enhance the work of those who have worked for the transparency, differentiation and quality of beef.
in writing. - food safety is one of the most pressing issues facing european citizens, and european legislation must ensure optimum protection by means of constantly updated and effective measures to meet the specific needs encountered in this field. in this sense, the electronic identification of bovine animals allows for more reliable data and ensures a secure traceability system for citizens. it is also right that the commission can adopt certain delegated acts, but it must be borne in mind that this power can be revoked at any time by the co-legislators and must therefore be used with caution and discretion.
in writing. - i have sought to support the granting of a discharge to the court of justice, since the deutsh report did not raise any criticisms or controversial points.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the 2012 discharge procedure of the court of justice because the report shows that, thanks to some technological and organisational advances, the management of the 2012 budget was virtuous and in line with the transparency policies imposed by the eu. parliament called on the court of justice to consider rationalising the cost of translation, which, although essential for the work required, has a very high budgetary impact (the court of justice is the european institution with the largest number of translators, accounting for 47% of the staff). in this connection, it seems useful to compare the translation costs per page of the different institutions in order to draw the best conclusions. it is pleasing to note that the number of pending cases has decreased slightly but, as a negative note, the number of closed cases has also decreased slightly. the undersigned, like parliament, welcomes the work of the court of justice and the 2012 discharge but calls on the court to continue to step up its efforts to provide an ever better service to european citizens.
in writing. - i have sought to support the granting of discharge to the court of auditors, since the deutsch report did not raise any criticisms or controversial points.
in writing. - i voted in favour of granting the 2012 discharge to the court of auditors on the basis of the report submitted by the independent external audit firm pricewaterhousecoopers sarl, according to which 'the financial statements present a true and fair view of the financial situation of the european court of auditors as well as of the financial result and cash flows for the year ended'. it is essential for the work of the court of auditors that the report on its activities should contain indications of transparent and good administration. i welcome the fact that discharge can be granted without too many reservations for the 2012 financial year. in particular, i am pleased that the average time taken to complete a report has been reduced from 25 to 20, although it has not reached the 18 month target for special reports, and that the construction of the k3 building has been completed on time and at cost. the main concerns are the overrepresentation of some member states at management level and the possibility of the president's three-year term of office being renewed more than once, but taking these secondary concerns into account, i think we can be satisfied with the work of the court of auditors.
in writing. - i do not share the views expressed in the sonik report on the european economic and social committee, and i therefore voted against the discharge.
in writing. - following the report by the committee on budgetary control, i fully agree to grant the discharge for 2012 to the economic and social committee, as its work in terms of financial administration and control is almost impeccable. in addition to sound financial management, i believe that the eesc can be taken as an example of good management for many other european institutions. in fact, it appears from the report that in 2012 the institution had already made public the cvs of its managers in favour of greater transparency, had used entirely energy from renewable sources and, by virtue of an agreement with the committee of the regions, had reduced translation costs by 1%, a cooperation which i hope will ensure greater savings in the future and can also be undertaken by other institutions given the high translation costs borne by the union.
in writing. - i do not share the views expressed in the sonik report on the committee of the regions, which is why i voted against the discharge.
in writing. - i voted in favour of granting the 2012 discharge to the committee of the regions because the report presented here shows that the committee has worked in a fair and transparent manner and has implemented a responsible management of the budget. the reduction in the use of external translations from 5.8% to 4.5% and the total use of energy from renewable sources are positive developments. i congratulate the committee on the consistent quality of the annual activity report, in order to provide an annual overall impact report which is an important tool for evaluating its work. i also welcome the fact that a comprehensive table of all the human resources available to the committee is available, which ensures the transparency required by parliament.
in writing. - i wanted to support the granting of a discharge to the european ombudsman, as the sonik report did not raise any criticisms or controversial points.
in writing. - i am in favour of granting the european ombudsman discharge in respect of the implementation of the ombudsman's budget for the financial year 2010 and therefore i am voting in favour of this report. i particularly appreciate the fact that the court of auditors, in its annual report 2012, noted that it had not identified any significant weaknesses in the audited aspects relating to human resources and procurement as regards the european ombudsman. i am very pleased that the rate of implementation of the overall appropriations has improved and that there have been convincing improvements in financial planning to ensure more efficient budget implementation. the payments relating to the administrative and other expenditure of the institutions and bodies for the year ended 31 december 2012 are also free from material error as a whole. the ombudsman's annual management plan for 2012, which includes key performance indicators to measure the results achieved by his office in meeting its objectives, is also commendable and welcome. finally, i appreciate the ombudsman's commitment to the european foundation for quality management in order to improve the quality of his work.
in writing. - i have sought to support the granting of discharge to the european data protection supervisor, as the sonik report did not reveal any criticisms or controversial points, nor any errors in his administration.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of the report which seeks to grant the european data protection supervisor discharge in respect of the implementation of the 2012 budget because i am convinced that, in budgetary terms, the work carried out has been correct and appreciable. in particular, i welcome the court of auditors' conclusions that the payments for the year ended 31 december 2012 concerning administrative and other expenditure are, as a whole, free from material error and that the supervisory and control systems examined for administrative expenditure have been effective. significant weaknesses in the audited aspects of human resources and procurement were also not identified by the court of auditors. there have been workable and effective improvements in the management of allowances, and i welcome the court of auditors' conclusion that the measures taken have been effective. finally, i welcome the fact that the guarantor intends to continue improving its supervision and control system in a timely manner.
in writing. - the report provides a critical view of the current situation of agencies which, in some cases, require consolidation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, which sets out the performance, financial management and control of the european union agencies in a general framework, because its horizontal approach makes it very useful for taking stock of the work of the union and its seconded bodies, which enjoy greater autonomy. the high importance of the tasks carried out by the agencies and their direct impact on the daily lives of citizens has required a steady increase in the number of seconded agencies. they were created with the main purpose of performing technical, scientific or supervisory tasks to assist the eu institutions in the formulation and implementation of eu policies. as they are mostly autonomous entities, discharge procedures are very useful for monitoring how the agencies have operated during the year in a number of areas that are strictly governed by union policies. the 2012 discharge reports distinguish between very virtuous agencies and others that are less so. in particular, always referring to the general picture, it emerged that in many cases transparency is not adequately guaranteed and therefore there are different calls to limit this lack.
in writing. - i voted against the discharge because the report, which is excellent in its critical apparatus, highlights some problematic aspects which need to be examined in greater depth.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of the motion for a discharge concerning this agency because i believe that progress has been made compared with the previous year in terms of financial and budgetary management, through the development of detailed guidelines for the annual budgeting process which contain a clear allocation of responsibilities and internal deadlines. however, over-appropriation in terms of buildings and ancillary expenditure, cash flow inconsistent with strict treasury management and 20 budgetary transfers in 2012 are not positive and require more planning and attention by the agency. weaknesses were also found in the transparency and equal treatment of candidates in the procurement and recruitment procedures, as well as in the prevention and management of conflicts of interest and transparency. further improvements are also needed in planning and monitoring, performance evaluation and career development, infrastructure management, logistics, safety, internal market monitoring and cooperation with the national regulatory authority. despite the shortcomings, however, i welcome the action plan presented by the agency to improve the controls of these processes.
in writing. - i have supported the granting of discharge, as the report did not raise any criticisms or controversial points.
in writing. - i vote in favour of the following report, which calls for the decision on the discharge to be deferred to the administrative director of the body of european regulators for electronic communications for the implementation of the budget and also for the closure of the accounts for the financial year 2012 to be deferred. unfortunately, there are many factors which have convinced me to vote in favour of the postponement, and the rapporteur has made them clear in his analysis based on the statements of the court of auditors. the deficiencies are significant in almost all areas analysed, starting with the legality and regularity of transactions, financial and budgetary management, commitments and carry-overs, procurement and recruitment procedures, and the prevention and management of conflicts of interest and transparency. there are also data on internal audit which cannot be considered satisfactory and i therefore consider the rapporteur's request to be reasonable. although i regret the results, i am confident that in the future the agency, through more careful and correct financial and budgetary management, will be able to obtain discharge and closure of accounts.
in writing. - i do not share the views expressed in the report and have therefore voted against the discharge.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of this motion for a resolution because i believe that the translation centre has done a good job in terms of budgetary control and management and that it therefore deserves to be recognised by my vote. i welcome the fact that the court of auditors has stated that it has obtained reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the centre's annual accounts for the financial year 2012 and that the other financial and budgetary management operations have been legal and regular. the court of auditors found no particulars as regards the level of carry-overs in 2012, while the principle of annuality was respected and the budget was implemented in a timely manner. i welcome the fact that the level and nature of the transfers have remained within the limits of the financial rules and that the centre has demonstrated sound financial planning. there have also been no problems with the procurement and recruitment procedures, and i think the rapporteur's request to make the cvs of the members of the cda available to the public is justified.
in writing. - i do not share the views expressed in the report and have therefore voted against the discharge.
in writing. - i was very pleased to vote in favour of granting the 2012 discharge to the european centre for the development of vocational training, as i was very pleased with the way the court of auditors presented the centre's financial operations, i.e. as legitimate and regular. in these economically bleak times, the work of the centre is essential to ensure the much-needed economic recovery. in this respect, i was pleased to note that the expenditure on transfers was reduced by more than 25% compared to the previous year (to 55 transfers in 2012 from 77 in 2011) and that the high carry-over of committed appropriations is mainly due to reasons beyond the control of the centre, such as delays in the work carried out by the greek authorities on the centre's premises. overall, we are satisfied with the work done by the centre in financial terms. it is hoped that this virtuosity will also be transferred to vocational training and development tasks, ensuring a high level of vocational training which is essential to overcome the recession.
in writing. i didn't mean to give the european police academy a discharge.
in writing. - i voted in favour of granting the 2012 discharge to the european police college as the court of auditors has described its financial management as reliable, legitimate and correct in all its operations. however, i have some concerns about the internal planning at the academy, considering the climate of future uncertainty (the recently failed merger with europol and the uncertain relocation of the headquarters) as one of the major causes of these shortcomings. i therefore join the call to the commission to provide clarity for the future and to enable the academy to work with a long- and medium-term perspective. i regret that three of the four corrective actions requested in the previous report are still pending and only one is considered to be in progress, but overall the efforts made by the academy can be appreciated also considering the climate of uncertainty in which it has been forced to work lately.
in writing. - i have supported the granting of discharge, as the report did not raise any criticisms or controversial points.
in writing. - i voted in favour of granting the 2012 discharge to the european aviation safety agency as the court of auditors found the accounts reliable and the underlying transactions to be legitimate and regular. the proper functioning of the agency, also from a financial point of view, is very important also in the future. with the implementation of the single european sky, the agency will play a central role in air safety and air traffic management. economic stability and the training of its officials must therefore be a certainty. in this connection, i join the committee on budgetary control in calling on the agency to publish as soon as possible the cvs and the declarations of interests of all senior management and the director-general, in order to ensure greater transparency.
in writing. - i do not share the views expressed in the report and have therefore voted against the discharge.
in writing. - i welcome the motion for a resolution on the 2012 discharge of the european asylum support office. i believe that the rapporteur's remarks are intended to improve the functioning of the office and that in budgetary terms they are an incentive to improve what has already been done. i share the rapporteur's concern about the high level of carryovers which is contrary to the principle of annuality of the budget, and the existence of a carryover which is not covered by a contract and is therefore irregular. as regards the transfers, i can only be satisfied that they have remained within the limits of the financial rules. the procurement and recruitment procedures were free of irregularities, while as regards transparency, the cvs and declarations of interests of the members of the adb, senior management and the executive director are not yet available and should be made public as soon as possible. finally, i believe that the office should rapidly establish a physical inventory and that the results and impact of its activities should be communicated to citizens in a way that is accessible via the web.
in writing. - i do not share the views expressed in the report and have therefore voted against the discharge.
in writing. - i voted in favour of granting the 2012 discharge to the european banking authority because, as the court of auditors has pointed out, the management of the budget is generally sound and correct. the rapporteur, however, identified some points on which clarification was deemed necessary, such as the issue of allowances for employees' children attending primary and secondary schools (funding not provided for in the staff regulations), recruitment procedures and the increased transparency required with the publication of cvs and declarations of interests of the authority's executives. the authority is also reiteratedly invited to improve its cooperation with other supervisory institutions and to consider a continuous rationalisation of resources which is likely to be necessary with the increasing workload required of the agency in the near future.
in writing. - i do not share the views expressed in the report and have therefore voted against the discharge.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of this motion for a resolution because i believe that the european centre for disease prevention and control has done a good job, from a budgetary point of view, in general, and that this work should be recognised and rewarded, although i think it is good to point out some things that have not gone well, so that this resolution will be an incentive to do better next year. i particularly appreciate the fact that the court of auditors has not made any observations on the transfers, the procurement procedures and the recruitment procedures. the employment rate has even improved compared to 2011, and i consider this a very positive element. moreover, as the activities carried out are multiannual in nature, the high level of appropriations is not due to delays in the implementation of the work programme and payments have therefore been planned and executed in line with operational needs. the only criticism i feel i can make is about transparency: cvs of the members of the adb and the consultative forum shall be made public.
in writing. - i do not share the views expressed in the report and have therefore voted against the discharge.
in writing. - i voted in favour of granting the 2012 discharge to the european chemicals agency as the report presented by the court of auditors showed that the financial management of the agency is reasonably reliable and that the underlying operations are legitimate and regular. the only two negative comments relate to the agency's management of the lack of cvs and declarations of interests of certain managers in a publicly visible database and to an internal control issue for the loss of work equipment entrusted to the agency, for which it is invited to implement a greater management of the inventory in the future and to provide the necessary explanations before submitting the request for discharge for the financial year 2013.
in writing. - i do not share the views expressed in the report and have therefore voted against the discharge.
in writing. - i voted in favour of granting the 2012 discharge to the european environment agency because its administration is sound, fully in line with the guidance provided by the court of auditors and its reports are free from significant errors. i welcome the fact that all the indications concerning the previous year's dumping have been addressed and resolved. i hope that this willingness of the agency to cooperate with the court of auditors will continue in the years to come and that in this regard more information will be provided on the extremely high mission expenses entered in the 2012 budget and that transparency will be improved by making the cvs and declarations of interests of the executives public using the agency's website, which should also be used to provide more information to the public about the work of the agency.
in writing. - i do not share the views expressed in the report and have therefore voted against the discharge.
in writing. - i voted in favour of granting the 2012 discharge to the european fisheries control agency on the basis of the report presented by the court of auditors which underlines the good financial management of the agency in all its activities. i welcome the news that the problems raised during the previous year's discharge have been addressed and resolved. i therefore call on the agency to continue to carry out its important task by continuing to ensure sound and transparent financial management.
in writing. - although the report does not contain any specific criticisms, i voted against the discharge.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report which gives the european food safety authority discharge for 2012 as it describes the extremely efficient operation and management of both financial and human resources. i was particularly pleased to note that the number of transfers for the year in question has fallen considerably, remaining within the limit allowed by the union and thus showing good financial planning. the recommendations made by the court of auditors for the previous year are being addressed and the agency is taking great care to avoid conflicts of interest, even if the procedures are a bit too complicated and cumbersome. it therefore calls for them to be streamlined and made more transparent by further improving the control of operations which, given the agency's large exposure, must always be carried out in the utmost impartiality. finally, i am pleased that 70% of the staff at the agency are employed in scientific and operational tasks, which shows how serious and dedicated this body is to its important work.
in writing. - i do not share the views expressed in the report and have therefore voted against the discharge.
in writing. - i am in favour of granting the 2012 discharge to the institute for gender equality as, following the analysis carried out by the court of auditors, it appears that the institute is managing its finances more than well. however, i believe it is necessary to ask the institute to update its recruitment guidelines to address the shortcomings identified by the court of auditors and to identify satisfactory solutions to the problems identified in this respect. i am satisfied with the way the institute is run overall, and that is why i voted in favour. i welcome the progress made by the institute in completing the establishment plan, which contributes to its effective functioning, as demonstrated by the fact that in 2012, among other things, the institute produced two reports for the presidencies on 'gender equality climate change' and 'violence against women victim support', completed the development of the gender equality index, launched seven studies and developed an online database on training resources on gender issues.
in writing. - i do not share the views expressed in the report and have therefore voted against the discharge.
in writing. - i believe that this european union agency can play a key role in economic recovery, job creation and sustainable growth in europe and that, as one of the three economic and financial supervisory authorities set up to deal with the economic and financial crisis of recent years, coordination at european level must be increased and improved, with the help and active participation of all the institutions and member states of the union. i would also like to stress and recall the fundamental role played by the european parliament in the creation of this agency. as regards the content of the report, i can only look positively at what has been done in particular for the prevention and management of conflicts of interest and transparency. the authority has adopted its own conflict of interest policies and rules and has created an ad hoc page on this topic on its website. however, i believe that a further step towards greater transparency is needed, by publishing cvs on the website and communicating the results and impact of activities carried out through the network.
in writing. - i have decided not to vote for the discharge because the report highlights the lack of legitimacy and regularity in the budget of the institute.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of this resolution because i believe that the work done by the institute in terms of the budget and the audits carried out by the court of auditors have been well conducted and deserve my confidence and support. although the court of auditors found that the quality of the audit certificates is inadequate in many cases, the court of auditors stated that the transactions underlying the annual accounts for the financial year 2012 are legal and regular in all relevant respects. i also welcome the fact that there has been no comment from the court on transfers, procurement and recruitment procedures and that the institute already has framework rules on conflicts of interest. i think the rapporteur's request for the publication of the declarations of interests of the members of the cda is both agreeable and fair. finally, i believe that there is still a lot to be done in terms of implementing the ias recommendations and internal controls. but parliament has done well in encouraging the institute to move forward with a sense of urgency to resolve the problems.
in writing. - i do not share the views expressed in the report and have therefore voted against the discharge.
in writing. - i voted in favour of granting the 2012 discharge to the european medicines agency on the basis of the good report presented by the court of auditors which, in addition to describing a correct and regular management of the budgets, praises its sound financial planning. i was particularly pleased with the level of transparency achieved by the agency, which also coincides with the organisation, for the second year in a row, of a public seminar on conflicts of interest, aimed at striking the right balance between ensuring the impartiality and independence of the experts working with the agency and ensuring the best possible scientific expertise. the agency's field of action is very important for public health and since the agency itself is funded both by the union and by pharmaceutical companies it is, to say the least, fundamental that it acts in the utmost transparency avoiding any kind of conflict of interest.
in writing. - i do not share the position of the report, although it is balanced, and i have therefore voted against the discharge.
in writing. - i have expressed my opinion in favour of granting the discharge for 2012 to the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction, as i welcome the conclusions of the court of auditors that it has obtained reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the centre's annual accounts for the financial year 2012 and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions in the centre's annual accounts for the financial year 2012. however, it is very unhappy about the waste of money (around eur 200[nbsp ]000) due to the unused space of the former offices of the observatory and calls for a timely remedy.
in writing. - i do not share the views expressed in the report and have therefore voted against the discharge.
in writing. - although the court of auditors found a budgetary irregularity of approximately eur 800[nbsp ]000 the reasons given by the agency are acceptable and the will shown to prevent a recurrence of this irregularity is convincing. on the other hand, financial management appears to be sound despite the increasing workload of the agency. for these reasons, i voted in favour of granting the 2012 discharge to the agency, while calling on it not to repeat budgetary irregularities and transparency in recruitment as happened in the past. in this respect, the use of the web to make public the cvs of the board of directors and the related declarations of interest is considered to be essential. underlining the key role of the agency as the guarantor of maritime safety in europe and the fact that its competences have been strengthened following the adoption of its new basic regulation in february 2013, i agree with the need to provide the agency with the financial, material and human resources it needs to successfully carry out its tasks, while demanding that it always uses them correctly and that its work is constantly monitored.
in writing. - i do not share the views expressed in the report and have therefore voted against the discharge.
in writing. - i can only vote in favour of this report: the work carried out by the agency in question in relation to the budget has been substantial, accurate and has been successfully completed within the agreed timeframe. the necessary measures have been taken to remedy the lack of transparency in the recruitment procedures, the budget implementation rate is 100%, no comments have been submitted by the court of auditors on carryovers, procurement procedures and recruitment procedures, and the rapporteur compliments the agency for the timely implementation of its budget and for its sound financial planning. in conclusion, no critical recommendation has been left outstanding by the ias, the commission's internal audit service. the only points where something should be done are the one on the publication of cvs and declarations of interest of the members of the cda, which are not yet available to the public, and the one on the communication of the results and the impact of the agency's activities on european citizens. for all these reasons, i am voting strongly in favour and i appreciate the work done by the agency.
in writing. - although the report is balanced, i did not vote in favour of granting discharge to the european railway agency because it continues to maintain, unjustifiably, two seats.
in writing. - i voted in favour of granting the european railway agency discharge for 2012 because the annual report presented by the court of auditors shows that the financial management is sound and virtuous in many respects. it is clear that in recent years the agency has been implementing a rationalisation of resources which is in line with the recommendations made by parliament in the past. however, as for parliament, i am against the use of two locations (lille and valenciennes), and i would ask the agency to choose to rationalize this unnecessary expenditure by choosing a single location which will become the reference point for a more efficient and safer european railway system. as with many other european institutions, maximum transparency is recommended through the use of the web to make the cvs of the members of the management board public and an efficient internal audit system, which is still relatively lacking for the agency in question. in conclusion, the prospect of further strengthening the agency's powers will require that it be provided with the financial, material and human resources needed to enable it to carry out its tasks successfully. it is therefore essential that its work, including its financial work, be impeccable.
in writing. - i do not share the views expressed in the report and have therefore voted against the discharge.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of this report because i believe that the role played by the european parliament in the establishment of the european securities and markets authority is remarkable and decisive and that, as it is still in the early stages, greater coordination at european level must be necessary. i believe that the promotion of financial stability and security through the safe operation of european stock markets is essential to economic recovery, job creation and sustainable growth, and that this is something that we should all share and support further. i therefore welcome the granting of discharge to the executive director of the authority and the approval of the closure of the accounts, with the consequent publication of the decisions in the official journal of the european union. i particularly appreciate the adoption and implementation by the authority of the basic requirements for all internal control rules and i join the rapporteur's call for curricula vitae and declarations of interests to be made available to the public, as well as the request to communicate the results and impact of the authority's activities on european citizens in a way that is accessible mainly through its website, in the interests of transparency and good information.
in writing. - i do not share the views expressed in the report analysing the discharge to the european training foundation and therefore did not support it in my vote.
in writing. - i voted in favour of granting the discharge for the european training foundation for the year 2012 as i am satisfied that the court of auditors has declared the transactions underlying the foundation's annual accounts for the financial year 2012 to be legal and regular and that its financial position as at 31 december 2012 is clearly represented. i recognise that the work of the foundation is extremely important in helping to improve the development of human capital. in this respect, i welcome the achievement of the objectives of the work programme, as demonstrated by the increase in results in 2012 and detailed in the annual activity report. i am particularly pleased with the dedication shown in tackling the important issues of youth employment and the renewed focus on vocational education and training, the skills dimension for small and mediumsized enterprises and migration processes.
in writing. - i do not share the views expressed in the report and have therefore voted against the discharge.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of this report because i consider the continuing contribution of this agency to the promotion of high standards of safety and health at work in the union to be considerable and i appreciate the activities carried out in 2012, such as, among others, the one related to the risks associated with green workplaces and the launch of the campaign for healthy workplaces. i believe that safety and health issues should be shared across the board by supporting, through a fair financial contribution, those who are involved and who work hard every day to ensure that they are protected. i am positive about the agency's financial performance in 2012, especially with regard to the level and nature of the transfers made, which remained within the limits of the financial rules and were the result of sound financial planning, procurement and recruitment procedures, and for which no comments were made during internal audits. finally, i believe that the agency can further improve its work by communicating more effectively, especially through the website, the results and impact of its work on european citizens.
in writing. - i have supported the granting of discharge, as the report did not raise any criticisms or controversial points.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of this report because i believe that the statements made by the euratom supply agency, in accordance with the opinion of the court of auditors, on the reliability of the annual accounts for the financial year 2012, provide reasonable assurances and merit my vote. i consider the role of this agency to be very important and i appreciate the work of its officials in ensuring adequate supplies of nuclear fuels to the member states by implementing a policy based on the principle of equal access to sources of supply. the rapporteur's request for clarification from the european commission as to why it is still directly financing most of the agency's expenditure, despite the fact that the agency's statute provides for financial autonomy, seems to me reasonable and well-founded. finally, i welcome the budgetary control efforts undertaken by the agency during the financial year 2012, which resulted in a positive budget implementation rate.
in writing. - i do not share the views expressed in the report and have therefore voted against the discharge.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of this report because i consider the contribution of the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions to be significant in promoting knowledge about living and working conditions at a time when those conditions continue to deteriorate in the member states of the european union. i welcome the foundation's prompt response to the shift in policy priorities due to the economic crisis, with the launch of new projects linked to priority themes such as the social impact of the crisis, recovery and job creation and sustainability of the public sector. i welcome the fact that in 2012 the level and nature of the transfers remained within the limits of the financial rules, and that therefore the foundation's programming was sound and well coordinated. i welcome the establishment of a system for monitoring and reporting potential conflicts of interest, as well as the debate on a comprehensive strategy on them. finally, the commission's internal audit system has identified several strengths in its research, and i welcome this.
in writing. - i do not share the views expressed in the report and have therefore voted against the discharge.
in writing. - i voted in favour of granting eurojust discharge for 2012 as the information reported by the court of auditors appears sufficiently reassuring as regards eurojust's financial and operational management, presenting faithfully, in all relevant respects, the financial situation as at 31 december 2012 and the results of its operations as well as the cash flows for the financial year ended on that date, and stating that the operations underlying eurojust's annual accounts for the financial year 2012 are legal and regular in all relevant respects. however, i remain concerned about the recruitment procedures which are still confusing and unclear. eurojust is therefore called upon to clarify this matter as quickly as possible and to ensure greater transparency. i am also concerned about the failure to respect the ceilings provided for in the framework contract for security management, and i hope that in the coming years these shortcomings will be justified and, above all, avoided.
in writing. - i do not share the views expressed in the report and have therefore voted against the discharge.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the 2012 discharge for the european police office, despite the fact that the annual report was not the most encouraging, because i recognise the work done by the office in favour of greater regularity in financial and operational management, which can be seen in the 20 recommendations for the past years that have already been addressed or are close to achieving this objective. another important issue, which has caused a large part of the budgetary imbalances, is undoubtedly due to the new task assigned to the office in june 2012 to manage the european cybercrime centre, which entailed the execution of significant budgetary commitments towards the end of the year and affected the amounts carried over to 2013. i join in calling for the publication as soon as possible of the cvs and declarations of interests of all managers, in favour of greater transparency, which must also be applied at all stages of staff selection.
in writing. - i do not share the views expressed in the report and have therefore voted against the discharge.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report and i welcome the granting of discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european union agency for fundamental rights and the approval of the closure of the accounts for the financial year 2012. the agency has done remarkable work from a financial point of view, especially on the issues of carryovers and transfers, by respecting the principle of annuality, by implementing its budget in a timely manner and by providing evidence of sound financial planning. in terms of transparency, i welcome the presence of declarations of interest and curricula vitae on the agency's website, as well as the procurement and recruitment procedures, for which no comments were made in the court of auditors' annual audit report. as regards conflicts of interest, i note that the agency will review its policy on prevention and management on the basis of the commission's guidelines and i hope that in the future it will be able to update the discharge authority in a timely manner. finally, i consider it remarkable that the ias recommendations, including the one described as 'important', have been implemented through an action plan submitted by the agency to the commission.
in writing. - i do not share the views expressed in the report and have therefore voted against the discharge.
in writing. - i vote in favour of the following report and support the discharge to be given to the executive director of the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders and the closure of the accounts for the financial year 2012. i believe that frontex should have a central role in the external policies of the european union and that its purpose, namely the coordination of the patrolling of the external air, sea and land borders of the eu states and the implementation of agreements with neighbouring countries for the readmission of non-eu migrants rejected along the borders, should have the right economic, political and moral support from the european institutions and the member states. i appreciate what the agency has done with regard to conflicts of interest, by developing a detailed disciplinary procedure, as well as the lack of comments by the court of auditors on procurement procedures. i consider the closure by the agency of two recommendations considered 'very important' by the commission's audit service to be extremely positive, and i am confident about the action plan developed to address the remaining outstanding recommendations.
in writing. - i do not share the views expressed in the report and have therefore voted against the discharge.
in writing. - despite the relatively high commitment appropriations carried over, i voted in favour of granting the 2012 discharge for the european gnss as these increased expenditure are due to the move to the new premises in prague and the opening of the galileo security monitoring centre, and do not denounce a malfunctioning of the authority but a continuous and correct work with a clear planning for the future. therefore, the court of auditors has stated that it has obtained reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2012 and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions, and i can only be happy about that. the only relevant complaint concerns the recruitment procedures for staff, which are not very transparent, as well as the cvs of the managers and their declarations of interest which have not been made public, but overall the work of the gnss can be described as correct and exemplary.
in writing. - the report contains excellent critical points which have led me to vote against the granting of discharge.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of this report to grant discharge to the executive director of the joint undertaking and to approve the closure of the accounts for the financial year 2012. i consider the comments made by the rapporteur useful for proper compliance with the provisions of the financial regulation, as i appreciate the court of auditors' finding on the accuracy of the annual accounts of the joint undertaking in all relevant respects and its assessment of the soundness of the results of operations and cash flows for the year ended by artemis. i am pleased to note that the joint undertaking has intensified its efforts during 2012 to establish and implement effective financial, accounting and management control procedures, and at the same time i welcome the european commission's proposal, as part of the implementation of horizon 2020, to combine embedded it systems (artemis) and nano-electricity (eniac) into a single initiative called ecsel. finally, i am very pleased with the shape ecsel will take in the future: the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and to monitor the implementation of the new rules.
in writing. - i do not share the views expressed in the report and have therefore voted against the discharge.
in writing. - i voted in favour of granting the 2012 discharge to the clean sky joint undertaking as i am very pleased that the joint undertaking's annual accounts have received an unqualified opinion from the court of auditors as regards the legality and regularity of the transactions on which they are based. following a high-profile judgment in 2011, i hope that the joint undertaking will continue its efforts to ensure sound financial management. the rapporteur, however, notes that the cash flow is not in line with the principle of balanced budgets and, given the importance and visibility of the joint venture, hopes that action will be taken as soon as possible.
in writing. - the report highlights the shortcomings in the management of the joint undertaking. i do not intend to vote in favour of the discharge because of the criticisms made by the text.
in writing. - i welcome the report by mr rübig on the discharge to be given to the director of the eniac joint undertaking and the clearance of the accounts for the financial year 2012. i believe that the requests made by the rapporteur are a healthy incentive to improve, from the financial point of view, what has already been done well, and that cooperation between parliament, the court of auditors and the joint undertaking, as has been done in this case, can be productive and productive and can serve as an example for the future. i particularly welcome the requests to improve the prevention and management of conflicts of interest, and to make available on the joint undertaking's website its policy and procedures for the prevention and management of conflicts of interest and the related implementing rules, as well as the list of members of the governing boards and their cvs. finally, i welcome the establishment of an internal audit capability, the finalisation and validation of the recovery plan following a disaster and the validation by an accountant of the financial and accounting systems.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr rubig's report on the fuel and hydrogen cell joint venture, because i think it is a worthwhile project.
in writing. - as regards the fuel and hydrogen cells joint undertaking, i am satisfied with the quality of the annual accounts and with the fact that it has received an unqualified opinion as to the legality and regularity of the transactions on which the accounts are based. i also welcome the rapporteur's call for the enterprise to continue its efforts to ensure sound financial management and to continue to respect budgetary principles. as regards internal control systems, i welcome the finalisation of the business continuity plan and the disaster recovery plan, and i therefore join the rapporteur in supporting the improvements proposed by the court of auditors to the monitoring and reporting system for the protection, dissemination and transfer of research results. more generally, i agree with the request made by my colleague to the court of auditors to carry out a thorough analysis of the joint undertakings, taking account of the amounts involved and the risks they may entail.
in writing. - the report contains a number of very interesting criticisms which have led me to vote against the granting of discharge.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the 2012 discharge for the innovative medicines initiative joint undertaking because i believe that the benefits it will bring to european citizens over its 10 years of implementation (2007-2017) will be worth more than the €1 billion allocated by the union to the entire joint undertaking. in this respect, i express my satisfaction with the sound financial management described by the court of auditors which, for the second consecutive year, has expressed an opinion on the legality and regularity of the transactions underlying the accounts of the joint undertaking, considering that the evidence obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for its statement of assurance.
in writing. - i have supported the granting of discharge because the report did not raise any criticisms or controversial points.
in writing. - i vote in favour of this report to approve the closure of the accounts and to grant the executive director of the joint undertaking discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2012. i consider that the assurances obtained by the court of auditors regarding the reliability of the annual accounts of the joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy are positive and satisfactory, as are the legality and regularity of the operations carried out by it in budgetary terms. as regards the control of compliance with quality assurance requirements, i am satisfied that a system has been set up to carry out an audit procedure at contractor level, although i think that much can still be done to improve internal control systems. in this regard, i welcome the request of the rapporteur to improve the level of transparency by publishing the curricula vitae of the members of the governing board and the executive director of the joint undertaking and to make the policy and procedures for the prevention and management of conflicts of interest and the related implementing rules available on its website.
in writing. - i have supported the granting of discharge because the report did not raise any criticisms or controversial points.
in writing. - the european union devotes a large part of its budget each year to subsidising joint ventures in the common interest. the sesar joint undertaking is part of the wider framework for the establishment of the single european sky and clean sky is therefore a priority for the union. i voted in favour of the 2012 discharge procedure because, as the court of auditors has pointed out, the budget is in line with the limits imposed and its operations appear sufficiently transparent, except for the mere access to cvs and declarations of interests of the members of the board of directors and the executive director, which the committee believes should be visible to the public in favour of greater transparency in order to avoid conflicts of interest. the sesar project will soon enter its constitutive phase. i therefore argue that it should be monitored with increasing attention by the european commission and the member states to ensure that it is completed on time and that the large funds made available (eur 2.1 billion) are properly used.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this proposal because i believe it is important that member states get appropriate instruments to ensure the effective exercise of the union’s rights in international trade agreements. in my opinion this is a highly important piece of legislation which will streamline the eu’s ability to act quickly and more efficiently, with measures to enforce its trading rights coming from dispute settlement decisions. i believe that in a global context where the number of retaliatory trade actions is increasing the mere existence of this recommended regulation will present a credible threat and will hopefully dissuade our trading partners from not respecting the rules of the game.
in writing. - the sender report, which provides an analysis of the protection of the eu's financial interests and the fight against fraud, is balanced and does not present criticisms, and i therefore intend to support it with my vote.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because the overall cost to the union and its citizens of fraudulent financial practices is still too high. i therefore agree with the committee on budgetary control that efforts must be stepped up, both at european and national level, to combat this all too widespread practice which costs the union some eur 1 000 billion and each citizen some eur 2 000 000 every year. the reform of the way olaf operates provides for some improvements in this area, but these are not sufficient without a more integrated and uniform system across the member states. one of the major problems in this area is the diversity of legislation within the union. ensuring that the european bodies designated to fight fraud (olaf, eurojust and the future european public prosecutor's office) have more comparable and reliable data will in future make it possible to tackle this huge problem efficiently. the text identifies a number of areas on which the fight against fraud must be based, such as excise duty evasion, simplification and greater uniformity of vat between member states and greater transparency in public administrations to eliminate corruption once and for all, which costs citizens billions of euros every year.
in writing. - more effective action against fraud is needed at european level. fraud against the eu budget increased slightly in 2012 compared to 2011. on the expenditure side, fraud affected a total of eur 315 million of eu funds, equivalent to 0.25% of the expenditure budget, compared with eur 295 million the previous year. the proposals which have been put forward in recent years, such as the one adopted by the commission on strengthening the protection of the euro and other currencies against counterfeiting through criminal law, and in particular the one on the creation of the european public prosecutor's office, can tackle fraudsters across europe. the member states must now demonstrate their commitment to combating fraud against the eu budget. in short, we need more determination because every penny we raise can be spent for the benefit of the entire community.
in writing. - strengthening the eu's anti-fraud mechanisms is a key objective of the co-legislators, especially at a time when public attention is focused on what the union is doing in economic and financial matters. i regret that own resources are no longer the main source of revenue for the eu budget but only 20% of it and that the correct collection of vat and customs duties also has a direct impact on european taxpayers. a very important result was the final approval of the reform of the provisions governing the functioning of olaf as a european control instrument, which is now also used as a support instrument abroad, as is happening in the ukrainian case. finally, i welcome the commission's initiatives to strengthen the overall effectiveness of the fight against fraud by means of innovative sanctions measures which complement prevention and detection efforts. i also share the view that anti-fraud clauses in international agreements and administrative cooperation agreements as well as in the field of public procurement can contribute to significant progress in the defence of the union's financial interests and the fight against corruption.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because i strongly believe that both internal political developments in iran and the interim agreement on the nuclear issue have opened a great window of opportunity both for reforms within iran and an improvement in its external relations with the eu. most of all i am particularly satisfied because with this text we call for a more independent eu policy towards iran. we also urged the council to start a discussion on the relief of the nuclear-related sanctions. in addition i believe that iran should be involved in the discussions for finding a solution for the syrian crisis. on the other hand, i consider it important that, besides the nuclear deal, various topics including human rights and regional security need to be discussed between the eu and iran. in this resolution we express our grave concern regarding the human rights situation in iran, in particular the widespread allegations of torture, unfair trials and the high number of executions in 2013 and 2014.
in writing. - i did not support the resolution tabled by the gue group because it does not propose solutions and approaches that are acceptable to the problem of managing eu-iran relations.
in writing. - i believe that the iranian nuclear issue is a very sensitive one and that people who are competent in this field, such as those who have been chosen to conduct the negotiations within the "e3/eu+3" formula, can achieve, with patience, constancy and tenacity, historic results. i therefore vote in favour of the afet recommendation, which aims to raise the awareness of the council, the commission and the european external action service on a number of issues, including the fundamental nuclear issue, but also the prospects for eu-iran relations, the disputes in the middle east region and human rights. i particularly welcome the calls for the opening of an eu delegation in tehran by the end of 2014 to consolidate bilateral relations, the proposal to develop sectoral cooperation, for example in the fight against drugs, and iran's involvement in the syrian crisis, for the stabilisation of the middle east and in view of the withdrawal of us troops from afghanistan. finally, i share the call for greater respect for human rights in the shia country, supporting human rights defenders and civil society organisations.
in writing. - the reports coming from iran on human rights violations and the situation of ethnic minorities are of great concern. torture, executions without due process and impunity for the perpetrators are unacceptable practices. the european parliament resolution, which i supported, condemns any form of restriction on the freedoms and rights of iranian citizens and calls for a constructive dialogue between the union and iran so that it can embark on the road of democratic reforms. while iran is an important trading partner and a central pillar of the middle east region and the union's enhanced dialogue and improved relations could bring great benefits both economically and in terms of stabilising the region, the timeliness of such a relationship will depend largely on the implementation of iran's commitments on the nuclear issue and the effectiveness of the protection of human rights.
in writing. - iran is one of the most sensitive points on the world geopolitical chessboard and europe must draw the logical consequences. if the regime is softening its foreign policy under rouhani compared to his predecessor ahmadinejad, one should not be fooled by the friendly sirens and think that everything is fine. the democratic situation in iran is still in a very bad state and europe must intervene, at least by calling on the relevant international organizations and the iraqi government to secure the last remaining refugee camp in iraq after the massacres in ashraf, namely camp liberty, as we have been asking vice-president ashton for months. europe should also promote an appeal to the member states, which i have already made to italian minister mogherini, to take responsibility for the iranian refugees at camp liberty, who risk their lives every day, and to demand the release of the seven hostages still held by iraqi special forces following the latest tragic attack on the camp.
in writing. - on the nuclear issue, the provisional geneva agreement led by the e3/eu+3 is a very important step and continues towards a peaceful solution of the issue, the only alternative to be considered. as regards eu-iran relations, it also depends on the progress made by iran in the context of the joint action plan and its willingness to cooperate constructively. iran has made progress on human rights, but many human rights defenders are still in prison along with political prisoners, trade unionists and activists, and the iranian authorities should commit to and ensure further efforts towards their release and full respect for human rights in the country. in this sense, iran could also play a key role in the resolution of the syrian conflict, as a major regional actor.
mr president, i would like to say that i think it is a reasonable request that all members should be provided with an accurate translation. i doubt that all the colleagues will read it all the way through.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think that among the things we will remember as the most important of the european union's activities in recent years will undoubtedly be the commitment to reducing co2 emissions and the effort to diversify energy sources, and i believe that the policy we define which must lead to a decarbonised economy, but also to mobility in this direction, will be one of the objectives which will characterize the results and the - not very many, indeed - successes of the european union's activities in recent years. i therefore believe that this directive is also moving in a positive direction and is one of the many measures we have implemented, sometimes with difficulty, sometimes with a little struggle within parliament, to make this battle waged by the european union a reality, even by being ahead of other areas of the world, even by discounting - let us say - this leadership and paying a price for these courageous choices. i think this is also very important, and i think it ties into another of our goals: the commission's proposal is to implement an energy policy which will free us from dependence on a few sources and a few countries, which is very turbulent, as the dramatic political events of the past few days and weeks have shown. these are two important objectives which we find in this directive and in the effort which accompanied it, made up of many technical requirements, but also a long-term vision for the creation of infrastructure. you can't diversify sources, go to sources with less environmental impact if you don't have a network infrastructure. it is therefore right that the european union should ask the member states to provide these frameworks and an infrastructure policy for these new energy sources, for these new types of energy. but i also think it is important to accompany all this - and here again a sad note of our policy, that of budgetary choices - it is important to accompany these frameworks, these indications and these constraints, because we are giving here timetables and indications - with a capacity to provide ourselves with resources of our own and resources that can be derived from the financial instruments, which we have repeatedly indicated in this parliament, mr president. so finding resources for investment, alongside the research resources that are there, can mean that states can say: we are asking you to make bold and innovative choices, but we are accompanying these indications with the instruments that come from the union and that the union makes available to the member states so that they can achieve these objectives which are of the whole european union.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 15 april 2014. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the report by jörg leichtfried, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 96/53/ec of 25 july 1996 laying down for certain road vehicles circulating within the community the maximum authorised dimensions in national and international traffic and the maximum authorised weights in international traffic (com(2013)0195 – c7-0102/2013 – 2013/0105(cod)) (a7-0256/2014).
the rapporteur. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the agri-food industry in the european union is the second most important sector, with a total output of the food chain of some 750 billion euros a year, employing over 48 million people, from primary production to retail trade and catering. official controls in the food chain are essential to ensure a high level of health protection and the proper implementation of the legislation governing the agri-food chain. they also help to maintain the high reputation of european products in the international context. the european union's ability to export to third countries is also based on high safety standards which add value. the legislative proposal for which i am the rapporteur is part of the legislative package published on 6 may and is based on the principle of checks commensurate with the risk and aims to create a single and harmonised framework of procedures and checks. i thank all my colleagues, and especially mr schnellhardt, for their intensive and constructive cooperation. the work done in recent months has enabled us, through over a thousand amendments, to make the text clearer so as not to leave room for different national interpretations which have often been the cause of uneven application by the competent authorities. the text to be voted on tomorrow introduces the principle of minimum frequency of inspections in all sectors of the food chain to avoid disparities between member states. in the milk sector, some countries carry out checks every ten years, while others carry them out annually. only by harmonizing the frequency of checks can we restore consumer confidence, especially after the various scandals, not least the one concerning horse meat. this has included the creation of reference centres for the authenticity and integrity of the food chain. official controls should be independent and unannounced in order to safeguard their effectiveness at the time of verification. thanks to the cooperation of all the political groups, article 15 on meat production explicitly incorporates haccp and hygiene procedures. the auxiliary staff may assist the veterinarian during official inspections, but the responsibility remains with the veterinarian. many countries have reduced the budget for controls and it has therefore become necessary to keep the payment of fees compulsory, but with some flexibility for member states. the collection of the fees will help, together with the financial resources of the states, to carry out the checks which - i stress - are fundamental for food safety. the commission's proposal provided for exemption of smes from the payment of the compulsory tariffs, but the criteria identified appeared too broad and would have exempted about 90% of the companies, making it unsustainable for the competent authorities to carry out the checks. the exemption for micro-enterprises, with more restrictive parameters, should be maintained and some of the amendments tabled in plenary are in this direction. finally, i welcome the report which the committee on the environment has rejected and i hope that it will be voted on by a large majority tomorrow.
the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am firmly convinced that the structure of the new regulatory framework proposed by the commission will ensure greater efficiency and consistency in the conduct of controls in all sectors of the agri-food chain in the european union. although controls on plant reproductive material and plant health controls are by nature different from those provided for in the livestock sector, the fundamental objective is to achieve better harmonisation and simplification across all sectors and to create a common regulatory framework in the organisation of official controls along the entire agri-food chain. i think that the text adopted by our committee on energy, research and technology is a good compromise. we must not forget that seeds and plants are the crucial, if not the vital, starting point of this supply chain and are therefore an integral part of the new regulation on official controls. the european seed guidelines include specific rules on official controls. in this respect, it is essential that there should be an appropriate level of control for all categories of seeds so that farmers can find high quality seeds on the market and use them, thereby supporting the agricultural production system from the ground up. i believe, however, that these controls should also be lightened for small farms.
i would like to thank the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs from both the committee on agriculture and the committee on the environment, as well as my former colleague, francesca barracciu, who has been following this dossier for the socialist and democratic group before me. the document on animal health which is being discussed in the house today has broad and cross-cutting support on the most significant points. we have managed to meet the information needs of citizens and consumers, farmers and trade associations by eliminating burdensome obligations and requirements and by allowing derogations based on the specific characteristics of individual countries, while at the same time excluding them from those areas - such as the transport of animals - which are most at risk for the spread of diseases and by enhancing the training and prevention role that trade associations can play. for the member states we have differentiated the rules between compulsory and voluntary programmes for the eradication of diseases, in the clear sense of subsidiarity. we have also been able to strengthen the references to animal welfare and antimicrobial resistance, which are creating increasing difficulties in the fight against animal diseases, and to ensure the european parliament's co-decision role in relation to a proposal from the commission which is too self-referential. the balance that has been struck must be defended and the elements which have been proposed in several amendments but which do not fall within the scope of this regulation are not acceptable, even though we recognize the freedom of members and groups to take a different line. in particular, as regards cloning, in line with the decision of the committee on agriculture, while leaving a vote, we are against it because it is not relevant to the subject of this regulation. i also think that the eight-hour limit in the transport sector should not be included here. this new regulation brings together a number of sources of legislation and we hope to give effect to the principles by delegating to other acts. we are convinced that a great step forward is being made and we expect the council to adopt its position which we will convey to the future parliament.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to health, there is never too much attention. although it is an animal health proposal, its scope has a tangible impact on public health as a whole: in fact, about 70 percent of infectious diseases are common to animals and humans. prevention can be seen as the keyword for effective management of animal diseases. it can be achieved, for example, through the adoption and dissemination of good animal husbandry practices and through the responsible use of veterinary medicinal products. prevention, however, is not always sufficient to prevent the emergence of certain diseases, especially in the wildlife sector. their movements and interactions follow the laws of nature and therefore cannot be controlled. it is in this context that monitoring measures play a vital role and it is here that i would like to emphasize the positive role played by hunters and their hunting associations. the hunter is one of the most immediate warning signals we have on the territory and, above all, at no cost to the community. hunters are often the first to come across infected wildlife and are immediately reported to the competent authorities who in turn activate the required enforcement measures. their knowledge is proven by a series of meticulous courses and examinations, which also have to be passed in the field of animal health. knowledge is then supplemented by experience handed down from generation to generation. finally, it is misleading to say that live hunting calls should be banned because they are a vehicle for diseases that cannot be monitored. on the contrary, the use of poultry traps could indeed be a valuable tool for monitoring the health of wild birds, as happened during the avian influenza epidemic. we are going beyond the banal prohibitionist slogans and making intelligent collaboration our goal.
member of the commission. - madam president, honourable members, i have listened carefully to the debate with great interest. of course, there is the usual debate about whether we should control more or control less. i think that the commission’s proposal and also many of the amendments submitted are a reasonable compromise. first of all, may i say that we did draw lessons from the horsemeat scandal. i think it is unfair to state that the commission did not do anything. in fact, we introduced a number of measures, including a food fraud network within the member states, an it system to report fraud, we have increased the penalties, we have more sampling plans and we have also set up a food fraud section within sanco. the horsemeat scandal is of course just one incident which happened because of fraudulent labelling and which affected an entire market of 500 million. and this is the problem: that it is a single market and therefore anything which evades the rules of importation as regards food safety affects the entire market, which is why i agree with those members of parliament who have said that we must be more vigilant on imports. at the same time, we maintain the so-called open system, because we have signed the international plant protection convention and also have obligations under the wto which oblige the contracting parties to base their phytosanitary legislation on identified pest risks to plant health. incidentally, concerning the comment made regarding the russian ban on pigmeat, and animal health, the members of parliament will be pleased to know that last monday the commission initiated the first step against russia in the wto. i think anyone who has joined the wto has to accept their obligations, including the obligations of regionalisation. if two wild boar infected with african swine fever cross over from belarus into poland, only that infected area should be affected, not the entire polish territory or, even worse, the entire eu territory. so i think that, because of this, it was right and proper to initiate proceedings against russia through the wto arbitration procedure. the question which has been raised by some meps is: should fees linked to official controls be mandatory or should we leave this question entirely in the hands of the member states? there are two reasons why we at the commission think that this choice should not be offered. first of all, to achieve harmonisation and thus create a level playing field across member states, i think that the competent authorities should be required to take the same costs into account. that is to say, the fees should be based on the costs, both direct and indirect, rather than being a tax. the fees should only be intended to recover the cost of the control and nothing more. i also think that, if member states are entitled to consider the costs they want, this would allow the perpetration of divergent and potentially distortive practices. operators in the richer member states could be advantaged, as these member states would either not impose fees or impose lower fees while operators in less rich member states would pay relatively more. apart from which, as i said, micro-enterprises – which amount to 80% of operators – will be excluded from these fees. i agree with those who say that animal welfare is important but it should not be included in this legislation. i think that the commission has already shown its commitment in this regard. not only have we taken the first preparatory steps for a general animal welfare law, but it was this commission which prohibited the marketing of animal-tested cosmetics in the european union. we have also enforced the legislation regarding pregnant sows and laying hens’ cages, and only recently we launched for the first time our cloning proposal. should there be more amr in this proposal? i think there should be more amr, but not in this proposal. we have already launched an action plan in this regard and one should also say that the proposal that we have before us is only one element of the eu’s fight against antibiotic resistance. we have a proposal now which is forthcoming on veterinary medicines which will be a crucial part of it, that is to say, that we should not abuse antibiotics even in animal health, thus endangering, as some meps have said, human health also. 25 000 people in the eu die every year because of infections which are resistant to antibiotics. at the same time, i would advise against certain amendments to this proposal which, as some have said, are outside its scope and stray into the regulation of veterinary medicines. i hope that rapid progress can be made in the next parliament towards a second-reading agreement at the earliest possible opportunity.
the rapporteur. - madam president, i thank all the members who have spoken. the report is moving in the right direction towards obtaining safe food. as the commissioner said, fees are crucial to the sustainability of controls. i join my colleagues in supporting the importance of the frequency of checks and their independence, especially in high-risk sectors. i would like to stress that there are other amendments, along with my own, to exempt small and mediumsized enterprises. i hope very much that the council will welcome the text which will be adopted tomorrow by the house, which has been involved with us for several months, and that parliament's position will become a good basis for discussion. i would like to take this opportunity to thank the competent authorities in the various countries of the european union for giving me a broader view of the complex legislation and its application in the various territories. allow me to express my sincere thanks to the competent italian authorities, in particular to the director-general of the ministry of health, dr silvio borrello, and his staff who, in collaboration with the greek presidency, are working diligently on the proposal. i hope that the control system, as outlined, will allow for the creation of new technical and professional figures for animal welfare and for the inspection of products of animal origin, who will be able to contribute to the achievement of the objectives of the regulation.
the rapporteur. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, transparency by the european institutions in their dialogue with civil society is a fundamental principle enshrined in the treaties. for european democracy to function properly, and to avoid the power of the few over the interests of the many, the activities of interest groups wishing to make their voices heard in the legislative process must be transparent and follow strict and rigorous rules of conduct. the amendments to the interinstitutional agreement, which parliament negotiated with the commission, are a step in this direction. but it is only a partial step forward, especially in relation to parliament's request for the establishment of a compulsory register. we are aware that there is no legal basis in the treaties, but there is a flexibility clause which makes it possible to make the union's powers consistent with its objectives, and parliament is strongly calling for it to be used in the next legislature if there is no revision of the treaties. parliament also asked the council to join the register. even within the limits of a voluntary mechanism based on incentives, the new agreement does contain some progress compared to the past and the resolution preceding the text of the agreement underlines and clarifies these. the registrant will have to declare all clients for whom he/she lobbies, clearly linking each activity with each client. the rules of the code of conduct are made more stringent to limit non-compliance or abuse as much as possible. we have endeavoured to clarify the role of former members, requiring that they do not use the benefits of their status if they are engaged in activities covered by the scope of the register. the incentives for registration - this is important - are also and above all conceived in the resolution as disincentives for those who do not register in relation to the currently very wide freedom of action allowed to lobbyists. the european commission is being asked to be as ambitious and as strict as parliament has decided to be. the question of the role of law firms is further clarified by distinguishing between legal aid activities and those covered by the register. it is good that some associations of law firms of lawyers want to accept this principle, and we must continue to work on it. another important issue that has emerged is that of the municipalities. i would point out that mayors and representatives of those institutions will not have to register, but permanent representative offices will have to do so. it may be useful to clarify and clarify this in the guidelines that follow. as regards the amendments - some of which will be accepted - there is the question of the legislative footprint. i would like to express my opinion on this: i think that a mandatory mechanism would risk having a counterproductive effect and thus encouraging lobbying to get one's name registered in the approved reports. we can consider the proposal for another amendment, a voluntary mechanism, on which i am ready to hear the suggestions that will emerge in the debate. on the whole, however, i believe that, within the limits of the existing treaties and a difficult negotiation, parliament has made a step forward and that the new register will strengthen transparency and thus the rights of all citizens.
member of the commission. - madam president, first of all let me again clarify the question of the regions in europe. the regions in europe will not be expected to register in the future, and the status quo will therefore be upheld in regard to them. it is true that this registration is not yet mandatory, but i believe that we have strengthened significantly the incentives to join the transparency register, and the commission will assess the results of this approach in due course. on law firms, i can say that there are consultations with the council of bars and law societies of europe, which reveal that they are open to enter into discussions with the institutions in order to find a workable compromise so that lawyers can sign up to the register. on the question of the assistance we give to ngos, which will be recorded in this transparency register, yes, we do have strict financial controls on what eu funds they use and how they use them, and whether they use them according to the intention for which they were given. i do not think that there is jurisdiction to see what they get from other sources, unless of course it affects their independence of judgment and the impartiality of the judgment itself. i look forward to more cooperation in this regard on something which is of interest to european citizens, and i think that this proposal will clearly result in improving the register further.
the rapporteur. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i think that the debate has shown a broad unity in parliament on a number of important points. firstly, there is the problem of an anomalous, asymmetrical situation, compared with the current weight and strength of lobbying in the european parliament, which is liable to jeopardize the balanced development of democracy in europe. the question of transparency is therefore fundamental. secondly, we deplore the absence of a compulsory register, and we are all united on this point. we are aware, of course, that the present legal basis does not allow this, but we point out a concrete way of building this legal basis and we call on the commission to pursue it with determination and speed. finally, as long as we remain within the framework of an optional register, i would like to stress to my colleagues the importance of the question of incentives as disincentives - this is a fundamental element. it is therefore important to give clear instructions to the bureau of parliament on how to reduce the margin of manoeuvre for those who do not register, and this is not to further encourage and facilitate the lobbying of those who do register. this is a discriminatory point which the report clarifies and interprets in the right way. as far as law firms are concerned, i think that article 10 of the amended agreement makes very clear the difference not in the status of lawyers but in the activity they carry out. so i think that all the activities of law firms which fall within the scope of lobbying must lead to registration and those who do not register must not enjoy the incentives and thus fall within the system of disincentives which we want to build in parliament. i think we can work together on these points and i think we can also be open to a number of amendments which aim to improve our report even further.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this week marks the end of the current legislature, after five intense and difficult years. we have had to face an unprecedented crisis which has brought the economies of many european countries to their knees. the union's response has certainly not been up to the task, as is shown by the growing anti-european sentiment everywhere. episodes like burned flags and torn stars should make you think: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european parliament is still too small and cannot decide on anything independently, not even on its own seat. i was one of the first to speak out on this subject, which many of my colleagues regarded as mere propaganda. today, fortunately, they have changed their minds, but at the time they voted according to the indications of the leaders of their groups, two parties, the people's party and the socialists, which decide everything here. i hope that in the next parliament there will be more voices able to balance this absurd overreach.
member of the commission. - mr president, i wish to thank the rapporteurs and to send best wishes to jean-luc dehaene for a quick recovery. the tone of your report and your resolution is, of course, highly critical. i can understand the frustration felt in this house when confronted with a ‘take it or leave it’ proposal with regard to the volumes, which clearly also indicates that the capacity of the budget as an investment tool is not fully recognised, that the value added is overshadowed by the ‘juste retour’ and discussions about national allocations, and that there is no real improvement on the revenue side. that is true. the only justification – or to put it better, explanation – as almost all the speakers have said, is that the context was highly unfavourable, with an unprecedented crisis, austerity at home, exposure to the rescue packages, competing in the perception of taxpayers (especially in net contributor countries) with delivery to the european budget. this is the context. this is a budget born in the deepest crisis since the beginning of european integration. but, when confronted with a choice between this far from perfect budget and annual budgets, i think the choice was rational in the interest of predictability. predictability is a value in itself, with so many unknowns surrounding europe at the present time, and it is certainly highly appreciated now in eastern europe in particular, with so many unknowns beyond the eastern border. looking on the brighter side of this imperfect budget, we have the connecting europe facility, we have a better and deeper understanding of how important it is to create cross-border connections via this facility, especially in energy, with this precondition for energy solidarity and security. we have some improvements in allocations for erasmus and research and development. nobody is stopping us from applying financial instruments on a larger scale. so there is also a modest improvement in the budget. the ‘final mile’ showed a real improvement, with the assistance of parliament. here i am referring to the frontloading of youth employment, the cosme programme, the global margin for payments and the 2013 amending budget, which was also essential to reduce the unpleasant legacy of unpaid bills for the new financial perspective. last but not least, mr kalfin, there is the high-level group on own resources as a part of this exercise, so i think that, while much of your diagnosis is right, there is a modest improvement as to the substance of this financial perspective and some expectations for the future. now we have to implement it, which is not an easy job given the constraints we feel in 2014 and which will continue in 2015. as for the conclusions, as usual this is one more illustration that the interests of the status quo are normally better politically defended than the interests of change. this is usually the case. my final conclusion is that there must never again be a crisis on such a scale as to undermine a feeling of european identity and change the negotiations into a kind of extreme sport.
the agenda includes, for joint debate, the report by gunnar hökmark, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council establishing a framework for the recovery and resolution of credit institutions and investment firms and amending council directives 77/91/eec and 82/891/ec, directives 2001/24/ec, 2002/47/ec, 2004/25/ec, 2005/56/ec, 2007/36/ec and 2011/35/ec and regulation (eu) no 1093/2010 (com (2012) 0280 - c7-0136/2012 - 2012/0150 (cod)) (a7-0196/2013), and the recommendation for the second reading by the committee on economic and monetary affairs on the position of the council at first reading with a view to the adoption of a directive of the european parliament and of the council on deposit-guarantee schemes (represented by mr peter simon) (c7-0095/2014 - c7-0054/2014 (cod)) (rdoc.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, as this is the last part-session of the current parliament in strasbourg, i think it is right to take a general look at the banking and financial regulation we have tried to put in place. can we say we're satisfied? yes and no. there are lights, which were very well highlighted in the speeches this morning by my colleagues and i will not repeat them, but also some shadows. the monitoring is positive, the work done by the rapporteurs on the crisis resolution mechanism, on deposit guarantees, the attempt in general to defend citizens and taxpayers is positive. but the time is often too long to decide and to apply the rules. i regret that we have not been able to bring the project of separating investment banks from commercial banks to fruition during this parliamentary term. this should be one of the main objectives of the next legislature. i think we need to limit even more the tendency of banks to be gigantic, their tendency to take on debt. we need more effective banking governance to control what the top of the banks do. we must distinguish better between large and small banks, especially cooperatives, which are rooted in the territory. the main objective of regulation should be to ensure the safety and soundness of the financial system in the public interest. as benjamin franklin said, "an ounce of prevention is better than a pound of cure".
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it is said that in a crisis we are obliged to rescue the banks, otherwise the whole economy would collapse. true, but only because we have reached a point of no return where banks have become too big to fail. the money of citizens and taxpayers has already been used massively in recent years and now shareholders and creditors will also have to pay. we have insisted on banking union because we did not have the courage to take the necessary action long before all this. mr president, i am referring to a clear and unambiguous separation of the banks, on the model of the american glass-steagall act of 1933. history should teach us something, and we had a clear and concrete example of what had to be done to get out of this crisis. banks had to go back to being banks, that is, to collect and manage people's savings and investments and to run the real economy. the financial institutions, on the other hand, who want to take risks and speculate in the markets, can do so, but not with our money and our guarantees.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank parliament once again, and in particular the rapporteurs and the shadow rapporteurs of the imco committee, for the work they have done on the package on product safety and market surveillance. i have appreciated the energy and attention which parliament has devoted to this very important dossier for the proper functioning of the internal market in products. the package, which bears my signature and that of commissioner mimica, is a fundamental step towards improving the application of product legislation in the internal market, mainly for two reasons. first, because it ensures the effective protection of all the public interests that our rules are intended to safeguard: the health and safety of consumers and professional users and the environment. secondly, because compliance with eu legislation guarantees the conditions of fair competition which are indispensable to prevent honest and lawful undertakings from being subjected to unfair competition by non-standard products. i shall concentrate my remarks on the regulation on market surveillance, while commissioner mimica will deal with those on the safety of consumer products. i would like to inform the rapporteur, mrs pietikäinen, that the commission welcomes many of the amendments proposed by the european parliament, because they are in the right direction and in line with the spirit of the proposal. i am referring, for example, to the introduction of a clearer distinction between non-compliant products and products presenting a risk. we also support the introduction of guiding principles to increase the effectiveness of market surveillance controls and the general objective of strengthening surveillance in the field. finally, we look with interest at the proposed obligations for internet service providers, while noting that their exact wording must remain fully consistent with european e-commerce legislation. we have some reservations, however, about certain other amendments, in particular the proposal that the commission should assess the resources and programmes of the national market surveillance authorities. the latter would cause an excessive bureaucratic burden and an intrusion into the administrative organization of the member states. parliament also called for the commission to establish a pan-european database on all types of accidents. it is true that accurate accident and incident statistics would help to set priorities for market surveillance, but the collection of relevant data is by no means an easy task and a cost-benefit analysis would be required before deciding on this proposal. finally, parliament proposed a number of principles for determining the administrative sanctions to be imposed on those responsible for infringements. the commission broadly shares and supports the spirit of these amendments. in this connection, as announced in our communication of 22 january, we are considering the advisability of a legislative proposal to harmonise economic sanctions throughout the internal market for industrial products. i must point out, however, that the obligation to publish a blacklist of economic operators who have repeatedly infringed the provisions of the regulation would be difficult to implement. before concluding, i would like to make one last comment on the other part of the package, the part concerning product safety, in particular the obligation to indicate the origin of the product. as you know, i attach great importance to this element of the package and i thank the rapporteur, mrs schaldemose, for her statements in this debate and for supporting the commission's position. i agree that the indication of the origin of products would make it easier for the authorities and consumers to find information on the supply chain. this is important for traceability and, consequently, for ensuring product safety and conformity. it also serves to improve confidence in the single market, because transparency of market conditions and greater consumer choice can only benefit operators who act responsibly. for these reasons, i appreciated the support received from the imco committee and the work done by the rapporteur, mrs schaldemose, and the shadow rapporteurs. i also recall that parliament has spoken on several occasions and i thank it in favour of the indication of origin: through the resolutions of december 2010 and february 2011, the schaldemose report and the inta and imco committees, which had already called for the adoption of traceability labelling to determine the country of origin of products. in addition, as recently as last january, parliament expressed its regret at the withdrawal of the so-called 'made in' proposal. the indication of origin was included in the current package in response also to parliament's calls: the commission has thus gone from words to deeds. we hope that parliament will continue to support us, and we are counting on it today in favour of article 7 of the rules of procedure, as requested by mrs schaldemose.
member of the commission. - mr president, let me begin by thanking parliament and, in particular, the rapporteurs, ms schaldemose and ms pietikäinen, for their fast and fruitful work and overall support for the product safety and market surveillance package. it is clear that we share a common goal: enhanced consumer safety and better functioning of the internal market, based on four clear principles and priorities: a simpler legal framework fit for its purpose; flawless identification and traceability of products; clear responsibilities of economic operators; and effective enforcement by authorities. both the commission’s proposals and the amendments by the committee on the internal market and consumer protection aim to reinforce the key elements of this important legislation. i will focus my intervention on the regulation on consumer product safety, as vice-president tajani has already commented on the market surveillance proposal. let me underline that the commission can support most of the internal market committee’s amendments. for example, we could support the introduction of an explicit reference to the precautionary principle, which has for a long time been a guiding principle for eu decision-making. we also understand parliament’s concerns about products that appeal to children, and we support the opportunity to address this in the context of the safety assessment of non-harmonised products. we also welcome your general support for the mandatory origin-making proposal. in this regard, i am confident that the council will soon be in a position to enter into trialogues on the entire package. however, the commission does have concerns about certain other amendments. firstly, the proposed ‘eu safety tested’ label. the commission is not convinced that an additional safety marking on products – even a voluntary one – would add value for european consumers or reinforce their safety. rather, it may increase confusion, contradict certain parts of eu legislation on ce marking and, potentially, bring the application of testing with no extra benefits. secondly, our concerns are related to trademark protection. indeed, europe needs to take effective measures against intellectual property rights violations. however, this should remain a subject of specific eu legislation and should not be mixed up with product safety regulation. thirdly, our joint objective is to simplify the current rules. this means laying down a common set of obligations for economic operators across sectors, strictly in line with the existing framework for the marketing of products. any amendments that introduce additional obligations for non-harmonised consumer goods could jeopardise this objective. finally, the commission acknowledges that stricter rules on penalties could contribute to the effectiveness of market surveillance. however, the proposed ceiling for administrative penalties and a possible blacklist could be counterproductive. with these points in mind, i want to conclude by confirming the commission’s readiness to work closely with parliament and the council to reach agreement on the two regulations as soon as possible. on a separate note, i would like to thank mr weidenholzer and his shadow rapporteurs for their intensive work on the report on consumer utilities. i welcome the final agreement reached. it recognises that consumer protection is already well embodied in eu legislation for the sectors identified, but it also gives us useful guidelines for addressing the remaining challenges. in this regard, let me remind you of some ongoing activities of the commission. firstly, the connected continent proposal that you strongly supported aiming to strengthen end users’ rights concerning many of the key issues identified in your report. secondly, our work with stakeholders on the reliability of comparison tools, price transparency and clear billing, especially in the energy sector. thirdly, our ongoing study on consumer vulnerability patterns in key sectors and our constant efforts to make sure the existing consumer protection legislation is effectively implemented. finally, the commission is continuing its intense work with consumers’ organisations, both at eu and national level. i am confident that all these actions will also contribute to better protection of consumers in the utility markets.
the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the union is based on two fundamental principles: democracy and freedom. in order to exercise these rights, we must defend the right of citizens to know. only knowledge gives full and informed choice in politics as in commerce. it is time to resolve the rift between importing and manufacturing countries which is increasing poverty throughout the union. those who vote against the regulation and against article 7 will have the responsibility of sanctioning unacceptable inequalities within the union and between european consumers and those of other world powers and will condemn our manufacturing companies to remain in inferior conditions in the global market. the european parliament should not be an accomplice to those governments which want a europe which is incapable of guaranteeing europeans the same rights as those which have long been applied in other countries, governments which derive power from the conflict between those who import and those who produce. after 25 years in this parliament, i strongly condemn the council's attitude, which risks alienating citizens from the european union.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union will soon be subject to the judgment of its citizens, and to do so with a good chance of overcoming the prevailing scepticism it will have to present a rather full beef stock of good results, that is, results directly useful to the citizens. these proposals are aimed at giving citizenship a value by strengthening consumer safety, guaranteeing product quality and combating counterfeiting of products which are now also harmful to health - we are thinking of children and vulnerable consumers. i believe that the whole package is aimed at empowering citizens, informing them, ensuring their safety and their maturity. i thank mr schaldemose and the other rapporteurs for the important work they have done. i would also like to say a word about the 'made in' aspect, which is still being contested by some. this new instrument of origin and designation of origin is also in the interests of security, and it has two aspects, two objectives and two results: the consumer, whose right to information must be respected, and the companies, those virtuous companies which produce well, respecting quality and safety, are not a good for this or that country, but for the whole economy of the european continent.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it should be obvious to a parent like me, the father of a ten-year-old boy, to know where the toy i am letting him play with was made and what materials it is made of. these indications should obviously be on the label. the t-shirt i make my fifteen-month-old daughter wear must state on the label where it was made and with what products because if it contains toxic substances i - as a father, even before as a politician - must know where to claim. i am therefore surprised that there are still people in europe who, in the name of the profit of the multinationals who may be paying for their election campaigns, argue that the consumer must ignore them. the consumer must know and we are here to defend our citizens and our workers. if anyone - and i am referring to mrs merkel's friends - is interested in defending those who produce in china, let him go and get elected in china, let him become a chinese member of parliament and not a member of the european parliament, because he should be defending the rights of european workers, producers and consumers. i therefore call for the elections to be held on 25 may, because we are thinking of another europe, based on work, respect, health, respect for workers and consumers and not profit. i hope that there are a few fewer lobbyists in this parliament, a few fewer supporters of the euro - the euro is a wrong and criminal currency that will be buried by the vote of the europeans - and someone who is more interested in the rights and safety of our children than in the enrichment of some multinational company that produces elsewhere and comes to sell its crap from our parts.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, as you know, the issue of rights is very important for all european citizens. in this case, it is about consumer rights. consumers must be able to choose freely where to direct their attention and what products to consume, and awareness is the only way to ensure that people are placed in the best possible conditions. product traceability is about that, not defending them in the abstract, but giving them all the pieces of knowledge they need to be able to decide where and how to allocate their resources. the work done by mr schaldemose and the other rapporteurs is excellent and i think that article 7 is at the heart of it because it sums up the idea i am proposing. rights are very important in modern societies, particularly the rights of the individual as a worker, but also as a citizen or consumer. that is why they deserve the attention that this report devotes to them.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i cannot understand how it is possible that there are still people who are opposed to designation of origin, to the so-called 'made in'. this parliament has already expressed itself overwhelmingly on this subject, but the council and the commission have not taken up our requests, which are those of european citizens and consumers who want to be informed about what they are buying. i wonder what the reasons are for those who do not want to indicate clearly the origin of a product and i really do not understand them. i think it is in everyone's interest to have the widest guarantees in terms of safety and quality and i do not think that this is a heavy bureaucratic burden, as some people from the 'no' front, which is nothing but the northern front, claim. these are the countries which have opposed a rule which protects our products and our producers from the very beginning. the absurd thing is that many of our international competitors have such rules, while europe is here arguing whether this is the right report to include such a provision in.
it's a blue-card question. i'm not sure what it is. mr president, to mr schmidt who says that these rules will increase the costs for small businesses, i ask him if he is aware of how many thousands of small businesses are failing because of the importation of unlabeled products from china, pakistan and that are produced by companies that exploit children or that use chemicals, additives and colours for processing that are banned in europe. mr schmidt says that a regulation like this on labelling and compulsory 'made in' would increase costs for small european firms. but mr schmidt knows that in the regions of southern italy, such as my own - apulia, calabria, campania, abruzzo, molise and basilicata - hundreds of textile, footwear and clothing companies fail every day or do not open new toy factories simply because they face unfair competition. between rising costs and the failure of companies, which do you prefer, mr president?
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the european liberal democrats have already supported this measure in a different form but with the same substance when it was discussed in the committee on international trade. they'll do it again today. i am pleased to note that, compared with the council, parliament is closer to consumers, who need to know the origin of a product, and to those entrepreneurs who are rewarded for not having relocated and started investing outside the borders of the european union, as many others have done. i am sorry to say that the council, and in particular some countries, but in sum many governments, do not believe in this element of product origin marking which would bring the european union much closer to india, china, japan, the united states, mexico, australia, all these other large trading regions which already have mandatory origin marking. we live in a world with tribalised people and increasingly international products. the origin marking of a product can, in the end, reverse this process, make the origin of the product clearer and our citizens more aware and mature.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have been fighting for years for rules on the indication of origin. european citizens and businesses want clear and precise rules on 'made in'. we must ensure that consumers know what they are buying and that companies can protect themselves against counterfeiting and unfair competition. parliament has already expressed its views on this issue in the 2005 proposal for a regulation, which was withdrawn, in the proposal for a regulation on textiles and in a number of resolutions. it is time to act and adopt rules on indication of origin. enough of this unjustified veto by the nordic countries in the council. the battle for "made in" has become a battle for democracy. if the citizens ask for it, if the businesses want it, if we know it will improve the lives of consumers and support our businesses, there can be no plausible excuse for voting against it. we complain about the growth of populist movements. the solution is never anti-politics, but good politics, capable of listening to citizens and businesses and of giving effective answers to their needs. we are therefore setting an example of good policy and supporting the indication of origin and the 'made in'.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, there is no doubt that the dossier we have dealt with today is an innovative and essential tool for safeguarding the safety and quality of products. the companies will certainly benefit from this. we are convinced, however, that soundness and transparency can be distinguished from the mandatory marking of the origin of the product. other important countries are doing this, and it is an essential step in the process of internationalisation which guarantees safety and quality. finally, we believe that article 7, the one on 'made in', is a fundamental step which must be preserved. the fight against counterfeiting and criminal systems can certainly rely today on a rapid, simple and effective legislative instrument, which guarantees consumer protection and combines this requirement with that of product quality, traceability and safety.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, is europe the one that wants to indicate the size of the beans, to decide on the size or orientation of the zucchini and then is afraid to have the designation of origin indicated on every product? we are very concerned about abstentionism and disaffection towards voting in the european elections, but if europe does not guarantee consumers correct information on the origin of products, which also implies the way in which they are produced, if europe is afraid to defend our companies - crushed and bent, as happens every day in the south of italy - from unfair competition from products from china or pakistan, where children and pregnant women work 14 hours a day, what is europe? we have defended our companies and our workers from time to time by voting in favour of this measure and defending article 7.
in writing. we are going to vote today on the proposal for a regulation on the safety of consumer products. part of the so-called product safety and market surveillance package, the text aims to increase transparency and traceability within the european common market, to make the conditions under which european companies operate more homogeneous with those of their respective non-eu trading partners, and to strengthen consumer protection and safety. in this context, the so-called 'made in' provision, which provides for the indication of the country of origin among the information to be provided to consumers for all non-food products intended for them, is of fundamental importance. after lengthy debates, the idea of a trademark of origin has been revived, with extremely positive consequences for european consumers and businesses. the former will be able to know where the goods they decide to buy were produced and the latter will finally be able to see their products protected and their excellence properly recognised. it will take a strong commitment from all sides to maintain this approach in the next negotiating phases.
madam president, i would like to move this oral amendment, which is purely technical, to add to paragraph 22 the words: ‘which are eligible for registration and expected to register’. this is just a clarification to bring the paragraph into line with the other paragraphs.
that concludes the voting.
i have to say, madam president, i voted for the ferreira report because i think that with this report we are taking an important step forward in the regulation of banking in europe. i am particularly pleased that we have succeeded in securing the role of small and mediumsized banks in europe. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the financial markets are not affected by the crisis, and i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i think it's important for our local banking system, which is a crucial strength for the economy in many parts of europe.
madam president, i should like to stress first of all the vote in favour of this measure by the lega nord delegation and the undersigned. i would like to take this opportunity, however, as i did at the opening of the last part-session in brussels, to draw the attention of this honourable presidency to the situation of more than 20 uncensored persons imprisoned in italian prisons for a crime of opinion. it is necessary for this presidency to have an explanation from the italian government as to why 20 decent, uncensored people and their families are anxiously awaiting their release after being arrested in veneto for raising a flag of freedom. this is a europe which is concerned with the freedom of all, but not that of europeans.
in writing. - the establishment of a single bank resolution authority for the countries participating in the single supervisory mechanism and at the same time a single resolution fund is an important step towards transferring the management of banking crises from the national to the european level. i believe that this changeover, which follows the centralisation of supervisory powers at the ecb, is fundamental to safeguarding our common market and our single currency. the crisis, with its devastating and protracted effects, has demonstrated certain weaknesses in our financial system and has seriously called into question its sustainability and, in some ways, the sustainability of the european union as a whole. it is a long and complex process it will take eight years to complete but it can really be a pillar for the europe of the future.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mrs ferreira's report, in line with the ppe. the proposed regulation aims to create a banking union in the eu to increase financial stability and ensure that the eu economy can rely on a functioning financial sector. the regulation establishes a single resolution mechanism (srm) which will apply to the euro area member states and other member states that have chosen to participate in it in order to complete the banking union. the purpose of the srm is to apply identical rules to all banks and to provide effective procedures to deal with bank failures while minimising the cost to taxpayers and the economy. the srm will complement the single supervisory mechanism (ssm), under which the ecb takes ultimate responsibility for the supervision of all banks in the euro area. the commission also proposed a european parliament and council directive to create a framework for the reorganisation and resolution of credit institutions and investment firms. this will mean that member states, whether or not they choose to participate in the srm, will have to apply the same rules on prudential and resolution requirements for banks.
in writing. - i did not support the ferreira report which analyses the proposal for the creation of a single crisis resolution mechanism for the banking union. the legislation under discussion is part of the european banking union, which i have many reservations about, because i do not believe it will help europe to emerge from the economic crisis in which it has been for too many years.
in writing. - i supported the proposal because it aims to create a single bank resolution authority for the countries that join the single supervisory mechanism. the purpose of the single mechanism is to apply the same set of rules to all credit institutions in the participating member states, thus providing effective procedures to deal with banking crises and minimising the costs to taxpayers and the economy. a single resolution fund for banks in crisis is also being set up together with the board, which will be financed by contributions of 1% of the value of its deposits. it is expected that, at the end of a transitional period of 10 years, the fund will be able to count on approximately eur 55 million. the regulation aims to shift crisis management powers to the european level. the resolution fund will reach its planned level of resources over a transitional period of eight years, during which time the resources paid by banks in the same member state will gradually become mutualisable (i.e. usable for any banking crisis), until complete mutualisation is achieved.
in writing. - i think this is a late and insufficient measure, considering what has happened in recent years and the crisis situation in which we are still found. in a single currency logic, which proved to be a controversial and problematic choice, more should have been done to avoid the fragmentation of the union's financial market. does it still make sense to intervene with these kinds of measures today? should we not reconsider the choice of a single currency? we are also talking about a fund that will have 55 billion in 2024, at full capacity: during the 2008-12 crisis, banks were bailed out by governments with almost 600 billion in payments and 4,300 billion in guarantees.
in writing. - after months of heavy handedness and a final 16-hour negotiation that ended at dawn, we can say that parliament has made some important points. we have reduced the time taken to complete the single european resolution fund to eight years. we will have started from 1 january 2015 the merging of 40% of national resources into the single fund; this will have to rise to 60% in the following year and to 70% by january 2017. so by 2017, the single resolution fund will be 'close to full operation', reaching the figure of 55 billion. the bail-in will not apply to deposits up to €100,000. but parliament also got protection for at least three months for an account temporarily holding more than €100,000, such as in the case of a house sale. the role of parliament was also decisive in improving a mechanism which could have been and which we would have liked to have been more courageous, but which nevertheless represents a fundamental guarantee for european taxpayers who will no longer have to bear the costs of any banking crises.
in writing. - this is an essential element of the banking union. the proposal aims to preserve the integrity of the member states participating in the single supervisory mechanism (ssm) by introducing a single resolution mechanism (srm) to deal with failing banks. the srm will allow uniform rules to be applied to any bank in difficulty in a participating member state and will allow for effective progress towards the resolution of bank failures in a way that minimises the cost to the taxpayer and the real economy. the structure of the srm ensures that the decision-making process is streamlined and fast. the tasks of the srm shall be shared between the commission and the national resolution authorities.
in writing. - the proposal for a regulation was submitted by the european commission in july 2013. it aims to create a single bank resolution authority for the countries that join the single supervisory mechanism. a single resolution fund is also set up alongside the board, funded by the banks themselves, to cover the costs of resolution. the regulation thus aims to shift the powers of supervision to the ecb and the powers of crisis management to the european level, in order to avoid that the exercise of supervision powers at supranational level is not matched by resolution powers and crisis costs at the same level. the resolution fund will reach its planned level of resources over a transitional period of eight years (starting on 1 january 2016), during which the resources paid by banks in the same member state will gradually become mutualizable (i.e. usable for any banking crisis, regardless of the country of incorporation of the failing bank) until full mutualization.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report today because i think it is appropriate to define more clearly the concept of 'public utility services' at community level, since the member states have different interpretations of what services are covered by public utility service providers. the aim is to harmonize the laws of the member states, since these are services which are fundamental to the life and social and cultural participation of citizens in european society, and it is essential to optimise legislation so that prices do not rise and contract conditions are simple, thus protecting the consumer and preserving jobs in this sector. to this end, a high level of quality and safety must be guaranteed, services of general interest must be offered in such a way as to meet the needs of users as precisely as possible, affordability must be ensured and equal treatment must be ensured, taking into account the diversity of geographical, social and cultural situations and safeguarding the rights of users. the report analyses the factors which impede universal access to public utilities and suggests how to take consumer needs into account, particularly in four main areas: the commission has also adopted a proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european network of national telecommunications operators.
in writing. - i found the own-initiative report on which i voted to be balanced and free of particular criticisms. i believe that it analyses in a comprehensive way the relationship between consumers and companies providing services, including energy services, and for these reasons i have decided to support it.
in writing. - public services must be efficient because we have a right to them as citizens and therefore as taxpayers. these must meet general needs which are often not met in the private sector or are not affordable to all for economic reasons. to achieve efficiency, it is not enough to ensure that the system works, and the member states must ensure that the service is of high quality. today's vote is intended to ensure that services of general interest are tailored as precisely as possible to the needs of users, taking account of geographical and cultural differences. the latter aspect is particularly relevant at a time of crisis such as the present one, when many citizens are in difficulty and vulnerabilities are increasing.
in writing. - this report deals with the position of consumers in relation to the use of public utilities, i.e. essential services such as energy, telecommunications, public transport and the post office. much emphasis is placed on the energy market, which is still too fragmented in europe and for which it is still not possible to benefit adequately from the competition that should exist between different suppliers who can operate on several markets. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. as regards postal and telecommunications, it must be admitted that there have been major developments compared with the past, if we consider the whole european dimension: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right of initiative. finally, i appreciate that, as regards public transport, there is a clear reference in this text to the needs of people with mobility difficulties or disabilities: i have spoken on this subject many times, and there is still a lot to be done.
in writing. - the report on consumer protection in public utilities aims to facilitate citizens' access to services in the fields of energy, telecommunications, transport and postal services. i voted in favour of the report because it comprehensively regulates access to and provision of these services after the consumer had not benefited from the liberalisations. as these are services which are essential to the life and social and cultural participation of citizens in society, the consumer has no choice whether to use the service or not, he can only choose the supplier. this often creates a relationship of over- and under-command between the service provider on the one hand and the consumer on the other.
in writing. - public utilities are services which are fundamental to the life and social and cultural participation of citizens in european society, but the possibility of choosing only the supplier can create a relationship of subordination of the consumer to the latter. this text also seeks to remedy the negative effects of the lack of liberalization of the sector, combined with the dismantling of existing public structures, which has been to the detriment of european citizens.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the technical requirements for inland waterway vessels, in line with the ppe. directive 2006/87/ec lays down the criteria and technical requirements for the issuing of navigation certificates valid for all inland waterways in the union. the commission is thus seeking to ensure the highest possible level of safety for inland navigation. the commission's objective is to further harmonise the technical requirements for inland waterway vessels and to intensify cooperation between the actors involved in order to increase efficiency and legal clarity in a sector mainly composed of smes. the inland waterway fleet is extremely sustainable due to its long life cycle. i agree with the rapporteur that further environmental benefits in terms of air pollutants could be achieved if the propulsion of the fleet were gradually renewed and adapted to new technologies. at the same time, i believe that a structured policy with realistic short and medium-term objectives would be the winning strategy for a sector with great potential. the certainty of the legal framework is undoubtedly the first step in encouraging investment and thus ensuring the sustainable development of the inland waterway market.
in writing. - while i share some of the views expressed in the wortmann-kool report on the technical requirements for inland waterway vessels, i must point out that the text is more focused on the needs of the countries of central europe than on our own territories and overly emphasizes the need to renew river vessels for greater environmental efficiency, which would bring additional costs to companies already in serious difficulty because of the protracted crisis. for these reasons i have decided to abstain.
in writing. - the commission proposes to further harmonise the technical requirements for inland waterway vessels. i believe that the efforts made to use the technical expertise of the ccnr should be supported, but it remains to be examined whether the current proposal is fully in line with the new framework for cooperation between the commission services and the ccnr on technical standards. the technical annexes have not been amended, as the aim of the proposal is to create a framework which will allow the development of a unified body of standards which can be used by the eu, the ccnr and, subsequently, other international organisations. amending the technical requirements would create further confusion and legal uncertainty and would be counterproductive to the purpose of the proposal. in addition, the development or revision of technical requirements for inland waterway vessels requires technical expertise and extensive coordination between the ccnr, eu member states and third countries.
in writing. - the european shipping industry, in particular inland waterway transport, is made up of a large number of small and mediumsized enterprises, both in manufacturing and in transport. it was therefore necessary to find a common ground in european legislation on this subject and to harmonise the rules in this area. the text on technical requirements for inland waterway vessels provides legal clarity on the principles governing this sector, and i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. - further harmonisation of technical requirements for inland waterway vessels and increased cooperation between the river commissions, the united nations economic commission for europe and the commission are two key objectives which will improve the efficiency and clarity of inland waterway legislation. i also appreciate that the report emphasizes the additional environmental benefits, particularly with regard to the gradual renewal of the fleet's propulsion.
in writing. - fraud linked to false declarations of origin of goods results in annual losses of eur 100 million per year in the eu-27. the proposal aims to protect consumers and the internal market, and to simplify and speed up the mechanisms for combating customs fraud. unnecessary and repetitive bureaucracy must be abolished in favour of strengthening and securing the internal market and the products circulating within it, thus ensuring a high level of consumer protection. achieving tangible results requires legal certainty and effective prevention and detection mechanisms at national and eu level, as well as close cooperation between these levels.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that it is appropriate to encourage mutual assistance between the administrative authorities of the member states and cooperation with the commission to ensure the correct application of customs and agricultural legislation. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on the free movement of goods are respected. in the light of the impact assessment carried out by the commission, it appears that customs officials have no means of verifying the veracity of the information declared on the goods to be transported. there is de facto abuse of the transit procedure which is monitored by documentary checks and visual inspections, which are however limited in scope. fraud linked to false declarations of origin or false descriptions of transported goods results in considerable annual losses for the eu. moreover, the increased level of fraud undermines consumer safety: effective prevention and detection mechanisms at national and eu level are therefore indispensable. the imco committee's proposal aims to speed up the mechanisms for combating customs fraud and avoiding excessive bureaucracy, to increase the security of the internal market and of the products circulating within it, and to ensure, at the same time, a high level of consumer protection.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the de campos report because i agree with its content and i believe that the customs rules for agricultural products should be updated, also to limit fraud.
in writing. - fraud linked to false declarations of origin leads to annual losses of eur 100 million per year in the eu-27, and this figure is only for confirmed cases. this new proposal aims to simplify and speed up the mechanisms for combating customs fraud and to avoid unnecessary and repetitive red tape. i vote in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 515/97 on mutual assistance between the administrative authorities of the member states and cooperation between the latter and the commission to ensure the correct application of the law on customs and agricultural matters. the current regulation has a number of loopholes which, taken together, create a significant problem, namely fraud linked to false declarations of origin, which result in losses of eur 100 million per year for the eu. the proposal from the committee on the internal market and consumer protection aims to simplify and speed up the mechanisms for combating customs fraud and to avoid unnecessary and repetitive red tape, to increase the security of the internal market and of the products circulating within it and to ensure, at the same time, a high level of consumer protection.
in writing. - todayʼs vote seeks to close loopholes in current laws on customs and agricultural trade. with its application, customs officers will be better able to track goods moving in europe. this will bring eu citizens closer to three goals: to combat customs fraud and avoid unnecessary bureaucratic measures, to strengthen the security of the internal market and the products circulating within it, while providing consumers with a high level of protection.
in writing. - i am of course in favour of all measures which can serve to eliminate, or at least to limit, fraud linked to a false declaration of origin at customs. customs officials often have no means of verifying that the declared origin of the goods actually corresponds to the itinerary of the container in question and cooperation between the various authorities in this field is still too weak. this is a huge problem, with significant economic damage: in 2011 alone, member states reported losses of around eur 107.7 million due to misrepresentation of goods carried, and these are cases of fraud detected, suggesting a much wider range of illegality. the proposal under consideration should make checks simpler, but at the same time more effective, also making use of the new technologies at our disposal. those who commit these types of crimes harm not only consumers, misleading them about the true origin of a product, but also honest producers and distributors who operate by the rules and who find themselves competing in a distorted market.
in writing. - the agricultural customs legislation is designed to tackle the problem of fraud in the customs and agriculture sectors, and to control and record data in defence of the eu's agricultural trade interests. the text just voted amends the 1997 regulation and adapts it to the current requirements of agricultural customs legislation by creating new computerised registers in which sensitive data will be stored and protected, and which will be directly accessible to olaf and the economic operators concerned. the administrative authorities of the member states are also urged to cooperate more closely in accordance with the principle of mutual assistance for the enforcement of community law.
in writing. - the report by mr correia de campos (doc. i agree with the rapporteur that the proposal to amend the current regulation on mutual assistance between the administrative authorities of the member states and cooperation between them and the commission to ensure the correct application of customs and agricultural legislation is necessary. under the current regulation, customs officials have no means of verifying that the declared origin of the goods corresponds to the itinerary of the container in question. fraud linked to false declarations of origin leads to annual losses of eur 100 million per year. the proposal from the committee on the internal market and consumer protection aims to simplify and speed up the mechanisms for combating customs fraud and to avoid unnecessary and repetitive red tape, to increase the security of the internal market and of the products circulating within it and to ensure, at the same time, a high level of consumer protection. the increased scale of fraud requires effective prevention and detection mechanisms at national and eu level, and close cooperation between these levels in order to achieve tangible results.
in writing. - the strengthening of mutual assistance between the administrative authorities of the member states and of cooperation between them and the commission in the field of customs and agricultural legislation is a fundamental point of the european internal market, especially since the current legislation provides a number of loopholes which affect its real effectiveness, since customs officials have no means of verifying that the declared origin of goods corresponds to reality, risking to disadvantage consumers. i also agree that the commission authorities in charge of investigations may have access to the relevant documents by making a direct request to economic operators. the proposal also brings the legislation into line with the lisbon treaty on the protection of personal data.
in writing. - i voted today in favour of the report on the amended proposal for a european parliament and council directive providing for an information procedure in the field of technical regulations and rules on information society services. in view of the need to codify existing texts without making substantial changes, and taking into account the opinion of the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission and that of the european economic and social committee and in line with the position of the juri committee, i agree to the adoption at first reading of the proposal in question.
in writing. - i find mr speroni's report to be agreeable and well thought out, and i therefore intend to support it by voting in favour of it.
in writing. - the amendment in question is intended to be limited to a simple codification without any substantial changes to the legislation. i think that as a first approach to the subject it is positive. i vote in favour of this.
in writing. - the report by mr nitras concerns croatia's accession to the 1990 convention on the elimination of double taxation in connection with the adjustment of profits of associated enterprises (the so-called 'arbitration convention'). the purpose of the convention is to promote crossborder activities in the internal market by providing the legal basis for the elimination of double taxation in the case of adjustments to the profits of associated enterprises by establishing, inter alia, an arbitration procedure allowing enterprises to request a revision of the adjustment to the profits of associated enterprises and dispute settlement mechanisms in the case of double taxation between enterprises of different member states. the european parliament has also called for the eu to take action to ensure that the eu's citizens are not left behind in the process of democratization. as regards the date of application of the arbitration procedures of the convention, in accordance with the principles contained in the convention, the council should take into account the time needed for the competent authorities to establish appropriate procedures for the effective implementation of the convention.
in writing. - i share the views expressed in the nitras report, which analyses croatia's accession to the 1990 convention on the elimination of double taxation. i do not think there are any particular criticisms, and i therefore intend to support it with my vote.
in writing. - croatia's accession to the convention is a key step in the integration of the balkan country with other european economies, as it defines the legal framework for the elimination of double taxation in the case of adjustment of profits of associated enterprises, also establishing an arbitration procedure allowing enterprises to request a revision of the adjustment of profits of associated enterprises and dispute resolution mechanisms in the case of double taxation between enterprises of different member states. the rapporteur is not entirely wrong in pointing out all the problems connected with the possible retroactivity of the entry into force.
in writing. - today i voted in favour of the report on the commission proposal to establish the shift2rail joint undertaking as an important component of the innovation investment package under horizon 2020. that report highlights the need to further strengthen governance in this area to ensure that it is open, transparent, effective and efficient, and thereby ensures that a wide range of stakeholders have the opportunity to play an active role in their specific areas. i believe it is essential to respect the principles agreed during the negotiations on horizon 2020 regarding public-private partnerships and the objectives to be achieved. the proposed amendments on the governance of shift2rail mainly aim to implement the new policy approach to itcs defined during the horizon 2020 negotiations and are aimed at improving transparency and openness within its governance structure. at the same time, it is necessary to strengthen the participation of the partners in shift2rail through the proposals on a competitive basis suggested by the rapporteur.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the barea report analysing the state of play of the shift2rail joint undertaking, which is part of the investment for innovation package under horizon 2020 and which deals with research and innovation in the railway sector. the text is supportive and balanced.
in writing. - i supported the commission's proposal to establish the shift2rail joint undertaking as an important component of the innovation investment package under horizon 2020. i share the rapporteur's proposed changes to shift2rail's governance which aim to implement the new policy approach to ict, defined during the horizon 2020 negotiations, and commit to improving transparency and openness within its governance structure. i believe that openness and transparency should not be limited to the internal operations and governance procedures of the joint undertaking, and for this reason i support the rapporteur's amendments which aim to strengthen these principles also with regard to the participation of partners in shift2rail, through calls for proposals on a competitive basis.
in writing. - the newly adopted report, establishing the shift2rail joint undertaking, welcomes the commission's proposal to establish the joint undertaking as an important component of the innovation investment package under horizon 2020. the 2020 objectives should ensure open, transparent and effective governance by enabling stakeholders to play an active role through public-private partnerships.
in writing. - the shift2rail joint undertaking can become an important component of the innovation investment package under horizon 2020. i believe that openness and transparency in the governance of this joint undertaking are essential to ensure that all stakeholders are able to play an active role in the achievement of its objectives and to enable the effective management of the joint undertaking.
in writing. - between 2008 and 2011 in europe we lost about 121 000 jobs in the electronics and technology sector. the case of the 1,146 workers at vdc technologies and cervino technologies in anagni is part of this scenario of an employment crisis, mainly due to aggressive competition from companies in emerging countries, china in the first place. i welcome the decision to grant the italian authorities eur 3 million from the globalisation adjustment fund to take concrete measures to facilitate the reintegration of these workers. i would add, however, that it would be a mistake to regard these corporate disputes as episodes linked to the economic crisis. the problem of unfair competition, if not ruthless competition by our standards, is and will increasingly be a key factor in europe's growth. let us take it seriously in the industrial compact.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the application egf/2012/007 it/vdc technologies to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund as this instrument was created to provide additional support to workers who are affected by the consequences of major changes in the structure of world trade. on 5 march 2014, the commission adopted a proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf for a total amount of eur 3 010 985 in favour of italy to support the reintegration into the labour market of redundant workers from vdc technologies and one of its suppliers (manufacturers of televisions, monitors, displays and air conditioning systems) linked to the major structural changes in world trade flows due to globalisation. in the face of increasing globalisation and the strong pressure of the chinese product market, italy has been hit hard in economic and employment terms with a decline in gdp and job losses. the mobilisation of this fund, as agreed by the commission, will therefore be used to co-finance a package of measures for the reintegration of workers, including vocational guidance and skills assessment, training, services to individuals, support for entrepreneurship, recruitment bonuses and participation allowances.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund to help the 1 164 workers of vdc technologies s.p.a. and cervino technologies s.r.l., who are suffering from the economic crisis in the sector caused by increased competition from third countries, particularly china.
in writing. - the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) helps workers who have been made redundant to find new employment. i supported the commission proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf for italy, for a total amount of eur 3[nbsp ]010[nbsp ]985 to support the reintegration into the labour market of vdc technologies redundancies. the italian television producer had to close its plant in frosinone due to strong competition from china and this led to the dismissal of 1[nbsp ]218 employees of vdc technologies and 54 of cervino technologies. i hope that this measure will also be approved by the eu council so that these workers can benefit from community support for their reintegration into the world of work.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the text to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund for the company vdc technologies spa of frosinone. this application calls for the mobilisation of the egf in the amount of eur 3[nbsp ]010[nbsp ]985 for 1[nbsp ]164 redundancies. as a company manufacturing computers and electronics and optical products, it was found that this sector suffered from competition from third countries such as china and therefore suffered from serious economic problems. the problem is therefore identified within the context of global trade flows and the economic crisis, which is why it is right to mobilise the egf to protect the companies concerned and the workers who have lost their jobs.
in writing. - in line with the objectives of the european globalisation adjustment fund, including providing additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major changes in the structure of world trade. i voted in favour of this report in order to express my support for the commission proposal for a decision of 4 march 2014 on the mobilisation of the egf for a total amount of eur 1 964 407 for spain to support the reintegration into the labour market of the workers of grupo santana and the 15 downstream suppliers and producers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade due to globalisation. the request by the spanish authorities arises from the fact that the growth of car production in the eu is small compared to that of its main competitors (e.g. china) with a consequent decrease in the eu market share in this sector accompanied by a significant loss of jobs. in this connection, a coordinated package of personalised services and active labour market measures was promoted in spain to reintegrate 285 workers into the labour market.
in writing. - i share the views expressed in the daerden report and have therefore voted in favour of the report and the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund in favour of the santana group workers in spain.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the text to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund in favour of three companies, the santana group and 15 suppliers of linares in spain. this application calls for the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 1 964 407 for 330 redundancies. as a company manufacturing motor vehicles, it was found that this sector suffered from competition from third countries such as china and therefore suffered from serious economic problems. the problem is therefore identified within the context of global trade flows and the economic crisis, which is why it is right to mobilise the egf to protect the companies concerned and the workers who have lost their jobs.
in writing. - in addition to their primary function of protecting depositors, deposit guarantee schemes are also of great importance for the stability of the financial system, particularly in times of crisis. in an area of such importance for the proper functioning of the internal market, it is necessary to eliminate the wide differences in the financial allocations of guarantee schemes in the member states, to provide depositors with clear and comprehensible information on their level of protection and all relevant information in the event of insolvency. that is why i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. - the events of 2007 and 2008 have shown that the existing dgs system has not worked in terms of maintaining depositors' confidence and financial stability. directive 2009/14/ec was adopted as an emergency measure to maintain depositors' confidence by increasing the coverage level from eur 20 000 to eur 100 000 by the end of 2010 and contained a clause providing for a comprehensive review of all aspects of dgss. the main elements are: • simplification and harmonisation, in particular as regards the coverage and payment arrangements; • further reduction of the deadline for payment by depositors; • a credible dgs; • mutual lending between dgss. an agreement was reached in december 2013. the council adopted its position at first reading on 3 march 2014 confirming the agreement of 17 december 2013
in writing. - deposit guarantee schemes are of central importance for the stability of the financial system, since if depositors decided to withdraw their deposits at the same time, there would be a risk of the collapse of an institution, but also of the spread of distrust to other credit institutions and other states. i welcome the fact that after lengthy negotiations, some specific points have been agreed, such as the provision by the member states to credit institutions affiliated to deposit guarantee schemes of a deposit guarantee fund corresponding to at least 0.8 per cent of the deposits covered by the scheme. the principle of risk-based contributions is also enshrined. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules.
madam president, with this directive on alternative fuels infrastructure we are taking an important step forward because we have reached a balanced compromise that marries a non-ideological environmental culture capable of combining sustainability with development, growth, the market and business. these are ambitious but realistic and achievable objectives. objectives for all the different types of alternative fuels, objectives closely linked to the priority ten-t network, on which we have worked a lot and which we have set ourselves as a reference point for the development of the infrastructure network. it is a directive which gives a clear direction to the market and which will enable car manufacturers, shipbuilders, energy producers and distributors and manufacturers of technical and technological components to have a certain framework in which to invest. with this work, we have broken the vicious circle that has characterized the alternative fuels sector until today. there is no infrastructure, and therefore there is no market. we have decided to break this vicious circle by starting with infrastructure investment, we call on the member states to take responsibility, but we are convinced that the burden on public investment will be relative because it will be possible, with a certain legislative framework, to involve the private sector in these investments. i would like to dedicate the last few seconds of my time to my shadow rapporteurs, with whom i have worked very fruitfully and whom i really thank for their spirit of cooperation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mr fidanza on alternative fuels infrastructure, along the lines of the ppe. the report examines the commission's proposal to end oil dependence and accelerate the decarbonisation of the transport system by setting a set of minimum requirements for developing an alternative fuels infrastructure, including common technical specifications. this will also diversify and improve the security of the eu's energy supply. at the same time, the proposed directive should support economic growth, strengthen the competitiveness of european industry and reduce greenhouse gas emissions in the transport sector. i agree with the rapporteur in pointing out certain technological and commercial shortcomings which are somewhat slowing down the evolution of the alternative fuels market, including the lack of adequate infrastructure, the lack of common technical specifications necessary to ensure the interoperability and pan-european mobility of vehicles using alternative fuels. i welcome the amendments tabled by the rapporteur to supplement the provisions of the commission proposal and broaden its objectives with the ultimate aim of creating an effective strategy to attract private investment for infrastructure development, thus giving impetus to the use of alternative fuels.
in writing. - although the fidanza report is balanced and well thought out, i think it is still too early to want to force member states to invest in the electric car sector in terms of infrastructure, since there is still no scientific evidence to show that there are real benefits for industry and consumers in terms of both economic and transport facilitation, and for these reasons i have decided to abstain.
in writing. - i certainly support the report, which touches on a crucial point for the declared decarbonisation targets of the economy announced by the commission for 2030. while in many sectors, starting with energy, the share of fossils in the mix is clearly lagging behind, partly as a result of ambitious renewable energy programmes in the member states (think of the wind energy initiative announced by germany), on the mobility side, many developments have been hampered by insufficient infrastructure or by weak market penetration of technologies that are already widely available and have been in use for some time. just think of individual mobility or rubber logistics, which in many countries is significantly hampered by a weak or non-existent supply infrastructure. these inadequacies have a further impact on consumers in a market in some countries with major difficulties in the sale of new private or promiscuous vehicles, with obvious negative environmental, economic and productive repercussions. despite my philosophical preference for incentive mechanisms, the mandatory provision of minimum standards seems acceptable in the context of the directive, which leaves ample scope for member states to comply and transpose legislation according to individual specific situations.
in writing. - the main long-term objective should be the decarbonisation of the transport sector. i believe that action at union level is needed in addition to cost reductions, as the development of the alternative fuels market is still hampered by gaps and many market and technological shortcomings. a form of joint intervention would be necessary. i therefore expressly vote in favour.
in writing. - some european initiatives in the europe 2020 strategy aim to address major societal challenges such as climate change, energy and resource scarcity and to ensure more efficient use of energy. in line with that strategy, the commission proposal establishes a common framework of measures for the deployment of alternative fuels infrastructure in the union, in order to break the oil dependency and accelerate the decarbonisation of the transport system. i voted in favour of the commission's proposal and i believe that action at union level is necessary, as the evolution of the alternative fuels market is still hampered by technological and commercial gaps, market failures, lack of consumer acceptance, lack of adequate infrastructure and, in many cases, lack of common technical specifications necessary to ensure the interoperability and pan-european mobility of vehicles using alternative fuels.
in writing. - the aim is to gradually replace oil with alternative fuels. there is currently little infrastructure for alternative fuels because there are few vehicles using them, and this leads to the production of vehicles at non-competitive prices and therefore consumers do not buy them. this vicious circle must be broken, and the first step is to build infrastructure. we must build the infrastructure by making minimum coverage mandatory by applying common techniques. for example, a minimum number of charging points for electric vehicles. in addition, consumers must be adequately informed. the directive, which is linked to the europe 2020 objectives, will therefore overcome this bottleneck without recourse to public spending, but through changes to local rules and proposals that promote private sector investment and eu support through ten-t, structural and cohesion funds.
in writing. - the transport system in the european union is still too dependent on oil as the main source of energy. alternative systems must be found if we are to succeed in diversifying the use of energy resources. the current commission proposal on alternative fuels infrastructure sets out a common framework of measures for the establishment of alternative fuels infrastructure in the union, a project which i agree with, particularly in view of the need to limit dependence on oil in the transport system. i therefore welcome the report by mr fidanza.
in writing. - the commission proposal is a necessary tool to end the eu's dependence on oil and to improve the diversification of its energy portfolio. this objective also makes it possible to pursue another objective at the same time, namely economic growth and the strengthening of the competitiveness of european industry, as well as the reduction of harmful emissions. it is therefore essential to adopt a coherent long-term strategy on alternative fuels, which preserves technological neutrality and meets the needs of all modes of transport. this strategy should naturally also have advantages in terms of innovation and inclusion. these objectives can be achieved by strengthening the supply infrastructure, which is still very limited in some sectors, and by a system which guarantees the quality of alternative fuels and includes a comprehensive, clear and comprehensive information system for consumers, so as to enable them to make informed choices.
i have to say, madam president, i have agreed to the report by mr leichtfried because i think we have made a good step forward. the idea that larger trucks, such as gigaliners or megatrucks, could also cross borders would have ultimately opened the way for the transit of these monsters. and i think that makes little sense. the european union is investing a lot of money in the development of railways and waterways. it would therefore be absurd to allow trucks to compete with these infrastructures. i think it is also unreasonable for people who live along the main transport routes to have these things driving around europe. i believe that the path that has now been found is the right one and that is why i have supported it.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive amending directive 96/53/ec laying down for certain road vehicles circulating in the community the maximum authorized dimensions in national and international traffic and the maximum authorized weights in international traffic. intervention in the transport sector is now becoming essential in order to improve the safety of roads and vehicles in the european union. the priority of the legislation should be to optimise the energy efficiency of the vehicle while reducing the risk of harm to other road users. in the absence of policies to address the increasing co2 emissions of heavy-duty vehicles, the commission should consider the introduction of energy efficiency standards for heavy-duty vehicles, including the installation of aerodynamic and anti-lock brakes. in addition, the directive should encourage and facilitate innovation in the design of vehicles and transport units. driver safety remains essential and can be ensured by installing digital tachographs, adapting the minimum requirements for the driver's cab, increasing visibility and perfecting the design of the aerodynamic cabs internally and externally in terms of weight and dimensions.
in writing. - despite the improvements made to the commission's proposal, the leichtfried report merely postpones the mega-tire problem until 2016. the following shall be considered: the risks to traffic on our roads which the introduction of these vehicles will entail for citizens; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's transport policy is not disrupted by the lack of adequate infrastructure to manage them and the economic damage caused to small and mediumsized enterprises in our territories who will not be able to obtain these vehicles, and i did not intend to support this text with my vote.
in writing. - the commission's proposal means that anyone who lends money to the banks will no longer be able to rely on the guarantee that the member states will cover the losses in the event of a crisis by guaranteeing their investments. the community certainly does not have to pay for the mismanagement and speculation of the large credit institutions. but i also think it is not appropriate to place this burden on creditors who, in the vast majority of cases, have no influence on the decisions of their management. that's why i abstained.
in writing. - the financial crisis has tested the ability of banking institutions to deal with the problems. the absence of effective tools to manage institutions in crisis has too often required the use of public funds to restore confidence and prevent a domino effect that could seriously damage the real economy. the commission therefore concluded that the measures under investigation were in line with the meip. the proposal harmonises national legislation and gives the authorities the tools and powers to deal with banking crises in a preventive manner and to ensure financial safeguard and stability and to minimise taxpayers' exposure. three phases are envisaged: 1) preparation and prevention; 2) early intervention; 3) resolution of the council. the framework sets out a set of principles that resolution authorities will have to comply with. these principles relate, inter alia, to the allocation of losses to shareholders and bondholders through bail-in.
in writing. - i voted today in favour of the report on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2009/65/ec on the coordination of laws, regulations and administrative provisions relating to undertakings for collective investment in transferable securities (ucits) as regards depositary functions, remuneration policies and sanctions. in line with the epp, i consider it appropriate to amend directive 2009/65/ec of the european parliament and of the council in order to take account of market developments and the experience gained so far by market participants and supervisory authorities, in particular to address disparities between national rules on depositary functions and responsibilities, remuneration policy and sanctions. it is therefore necessary to amend the directive by adding certain articles and by further defining certain concepts in order to avoid potential infringements of the legislation in this field.
in writing. - the ucits market is important for small investors. i have chosen to support the proposal because it aims to protect consumers by making depositaries and fund managers objectively liable. for investment fund managers, bonuses will be limited and salaries linked to their funds. individual investors' money will be better protected and risky speculation reduced. collective investment undertakings (ucits) will therefore be subject to stricter rules.
in writing. - since the adoption of the ucits directive in 1985, the rules on depositaries in the directive have remained unchanged. the directive left wide room for interpretation as regards the scope of a depositary's duties and liability. as a result, different approaches have developed across the european union, exposing ucits investors to uneven levels of protection. the directive amends the ucits directive 2009/65/ec as regards depositary functions, remuneration policies and sanctions, creating a more uniform framework at eu level.
in writing. - without access to basic banking services, daily life is difficult and expensive: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. the advantages of transactions carried out through bank accounts are now manifold and tangible for citizens and public administrations. just think, bank transfers of wages and the payment of bills are now the order of the day. given the established role of payment accounts, i voted in favour of this report because all the existing obstacles must be removed. harmonising the rules on payment accounts can be a first step towards making it easier for citizens to open an account, to use payment procedures, etc. in addition, this would make banking charges transparent and understandable so that consumers are able to make a comparison and an informed choice about the banking service provider. there are still too many obstacles to opening an account, including the lack of a fixed address in the member state where the payment service provider is established for those who, for various reasons, are forced to move frequently within the eu.
in writing. - i fully support the aim of the klute report, which aims to simplify the bureaucratic procedures for our citizens to open and close bank accounts in the member states and to reduce the costs of operating these accounts. for these reasons i voted in favour of the text.
in writing. - nowadays, most people find it difficult to imagine living without a bank account, which has become a real requirement for participation in social and economic life. without access to basic banking services, daily life is difficult and expensive. under the new law, which was approved by parliament, anyone legally resident in the eu will have the right to open a basic bank account and no one will be denied this right on the basis of nationality or place of residence. this legislation should also ensure that the fees and rules for all bank accounts are transparent and comparable and should make it easier to switch from one current account to another account offering better conditions.
in writing. - the directive aims to: (i) to improve the transparency and comparability of payment information relating to payment accounts, (ii) to facilitate switching between payment accounts, (iii) to eliminate discrimination based on residence in relation to payment accounts and (iv) to provide access to a payment account with basic features within the eu. the directive will apply to payment accounts held by consumers while accounts held by businesses are outside its scope. it doesn't cover the savings accounts.
in writing. - today parliament decided in plenary that anyone legally resident in the eu will have the right to open a basic bank account and no one will be denied this right on the basis of nationality or place of residence. i agree with the rapporteur, mr klute, that this directive, by guaranteeing access to basic accounts for all consumers, including migrants and mobile citizens, will stimulate economic modernisation and facilitate free movement. however, member states could require prospective customers to indicate their interest and the purpose of opening the account, provided that they fully respect the fundamental rights of the customer and that the exercise of that right is not excessively complicated or burdensome for the consumer. basic bank accounts allow customers to make payments or withdrawals and to carry out payment transactions within the eu, including payment card and online transactions. customers shall be allowed an unlimited number of such transactions at no cost or at a reasonable charge.
in writing. - following the ppe's position, i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation on key information documents (kids) for investment products, so that retail investors can make an appropriate investment decision. i welcome the work done so far by the european commission on the revision of eu legislation applicable to different types of retail investment products. this report focuses on the rules on product information in the context of packaged retail investment products (prip). the aim is to restore consumer confidence in financial markets, based on a thorough review of the insurance intermediation directive (imd), to ensure that consumers benefit from a high level of protection when buying insurance products and to strengthen the depositary function for ucits. the commission shall, by means of implementing acts, lay down the rules on the application of this article, in particular the rules on the application of article 4 (1) (a) of regulation (eu) no 648/2012 and the rules on the application of article 4 (1) (b) of regulation (eu) no 648/2012 to the provision of investment advice and sales services. i welcome the way the text is framed in terms of scope, taxation, risk indicators, information to investors on the use of funds, references to other regulations and the liability and sanctions regime.
in writing. - mr berès' report is well structured and acceptable. i consider it essential to enable retail investors to compare and better understand the main features and risks of the investment products they are about to put their savings into. for all these reasons i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the new rules on the information which small investors, that is, non-professional investors, should receive before they sign a contract. under the new rules, all retail investors will be required to be given three pages of the key information document (kid) in a4 format before signing a contract. this will help retail investors to understand and compare insurance-based pre-packaged investment products (priips), estimate the total cost of their investment and be aware of the risk-return relationship.
in writing. - people who wish to invest their savings must be adequately informed of the characteristics (and risks) of such a decision. the information sheets are often unclear, difficult to read, and do not do their job as best as they can, which is to inform investors about a particular product. the new european regulation on this subject, on the other hand, lays down a few simple rules which should be observed: for example, the kid should be in a4 format, presented and structured in an easy-to-read manner, in legible typeface and in clear, concise and understandable language for the investors it is addressed to. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of the products is not compromised. if an individual is aware of this and has the right tools, then he can make the decisions he thinks are best to put his savings to good use.
in writing. - this regulation aims to ensure that investors are able to understand the main retail features and risks associated with investment products. at the same time, the regulation aims to ensure a level playing field between producers and sellers of these products. it therefore aims to establish uniform conditions at eu level. the proposal provides that the manufacturer of the investment product should draw up the key information document (kid) for each investment product it produces. manufacturers shall provide the kid to purchasers in good time before the conclusion of a transaction in the investment product. the new rules apply to all investment products for retail investors. however, they shall not apply to life and non-life insurance products, deposits other than structured deposits and securities and officially recognised pension schemes.
in writing. - although the commission has identified two areas for further development, namely the rules applicable to sales and the rules on product information, there are several points in european legislation which could be strengthened, starting from the scope, which is currently limited to pre-assembled investment products or investments with an indeterminate return. in addition, the indication of future performance scenarios based on a multi-factor analysis is to be preferred to risk indicators based on feedback on past performance. finally, the powers of the european supervisory authorities should be strengthened as regards liability and sanctions.
in writing. - this report is the second part of the legislative procedure for amending the statute of the court of justice. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. the first, now a legislative text, concerns amendments to the statute, while the second, still under examination, concerns the number of additional judges of the court of first instance and the criteria for their selection. i voted in favour of this report because, in the light of the constant increase in cases pending before the court of justice of the european union, i think it is right to increase the number of judges, although it is necessary to define common criteria for the proper selection of judges, so that the most professionally competent and qualified candidates are appointed to fill that post. i agree with the rapporteur that a solution must be found which is compatible with the statute and which brings all the member states together, and i welcome the proposal to set up a court of justice in accordance with the statute and to appoint 'additional' judges, irrespective of their nationality, whose nomination would be submitted on a national basis.
in writing. - since i believe that the appointment of judges to the court of justice, and therefore also that of the 12 additional judges, should remain the exclusive competence of the member states, i voted against this text.
in writing. - in recent years the number of cases pending has steadily increased, despite the enormous efforts made by the court, which is no longer able to cope with the increasing workload. the court of first instance nevertheless amended its rules of procedure to enable it to rule without an oral procedure on intellectual property cases, which can now be settled more quickly. it also decided to organise itself into eight different panels, alongside an appeals section. in order to further strengthen its capacity to deal with the cases brought before it, the court of justice proposed to increase the number of judges of the general court by 12 to 39, but raised the problem of designation. the latter could be solved by a rotation system allowing for an equal representation of the 28 countries in the court of justice, a subject which is very close to the hearts of the various national governments. but we must not forget the importance of the criterion of suitability, which the rapporteur brings to the attention of the house.
in writing. - the adoption of the ecall system is a signal of the european parliament's practical support for road safety. some 2,500 lives could be saved in europe each year and the severity of injuries caused by accidents could be considerably reduced. i very much hope that the deadline for installation on all vehicles, which is scheduled for october 2015, will be met. it is clear that ecall cannot prevent accidents, nor can it reduce their number. however, it can provide very fast response procedures, such as automatically alerting emergency services and indicating the exact location to allow rescuers to reach the scene of the accident more quickly. and as a result, save lives and reduce the severity of injuries.
in writing. - i voted today in favour of the report on the introduction of an interoperable electronic emergency call service (ecall) throughout the european union. given the failure of the voluntary approach, the commission has started to adopt the necessary legislation to make ecall a mandatory service for new vehicles. parliament also contributed by approving in july 2012 by a large majority an own-initiative report entitled 'ecall: a new 112 service for citizens' to make it an eu-wide public emergency call system, installed on board vehicles, linked to the 112 emergency number and governed by common pan-european rules. the adoption of this report is a clear sign of parliament's desire to increase road safety. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the permissible sound power level of motor vehicles. this will inevitably mean faster response by emergency services, with the consequent reduction in the number of fatalities and the severity of injuries among drivers and european citizens.
in writing. - i consider the de backer report analysing the introduction of the ecall emergency call service to be balanced and free of criticism. given that only 0.7% of european vehicles are currently equipped with private ecall systems and that the available estimates clearly indicate that such a system would speed up the response and intervention times in emergencies by up to 50%, i am convinced that its introduction will save a considerable number of lives each year, which is why i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal because it is capable of deploying an interoperable electronic emergency call service throughout the european union. the proposal concerns the part concerning the infrastructure of emergency call centres (psap) of the commission's strategy for the ecall service (electronic emergency call service), the regulatory approach of which is developed in three directions: the in-vehicle system, telecommunications networks and psaps. the question of road safety has always been of great importance to the european parliament. the report provides for the mandatory introduction of ecall in all new vehicles from 1 october 2015. the fact that an automatic call can allow for a faster response by emergency services has the consequence of reducing the number of fatalities and the severity of injuries among drivers and european citizens. the service will be free and open to the public and available to all drivers.
in writing. - the commission proposes to make ecall mandatory in all new vehicles from 1 october 2015, as previous attempts to introduce ecall on a voluntary basis have not worked. to date, only around 0.7% of eu vehicles are equipped with private ecall systems. i am aware of the value of every minute of every day to save the lives of injured people and to reduce the severity of injuries, and i voted in favour of this proposal. an automatic call can allow for faster response by emergency services and will result in a reduction in the number of fatalities and the severity of injuries to drivers and european citizens. i therefore believe that this procedure must be moved forward quickly.
in writing. - every year, about 2,500 lives could be saved in europe. emergency call devices that automatically alert emergency services in the event of a road accident will have to be installed on all new car and van models by october 2015. the granting of a moratorium to allow industry more time to develop and test the system is also a good thing. the result achieved today is therefore a significant step forward for the security of european citizens. i hope, however, that the free 112 service will be guaranteed and that the radical spread of the 112 system throughout europe will be
in writing. - the issue of road safety is a key point on the european agenda and therefore the proposal for a single interoperable service should be welcomed and progress made as quickly as possible. i agree with the mandatory, free and universally available distribution of the system. i also agree with the need to launch information campaigns among the public so that they understand its potential and how it can be used. accurate and reliable tracing of 911 calls is undoubtedly a key point.
in writing. - today, in line with the ppe, i voted in favour of the report on measures to reduce the cost of installing high-speed electronic communications networks. i believe that a high-quality digital infrastructure is crucial in all sectors of the economy in order to create an innovative and forward-looking society. i therefore welcome all proposals to reduce the cost of installing high-speed and ultra-high-speed electronic communications networks by means of instruments which allow for more cost-efficient installation of the new physical infrastructure, reduction of administrative burdens, shared use of existing infrastructure and harmonisation of civil engineering works. the aim is to disseminate member states' best practices and support a new culture of high-speed broadband access: the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the proposed measures on the market for high-speed broadband networks, in particular by analysing the potential for cross-border use of such networks.
in writing. - i agree with the positions of the herczog report on measures to reduce the cost of installing high-speed electronic communications networks. i think the text we voted on is well balanced and well thought out and although access to civil infrastructure is not the ultimate solution to the serious competition problems in the telecommunications sector, i believe it will greatly facilitate the spread of broadband networks to all operators.
in writing. - a high-speed broadband infrastructure is essential for global competitiveness and is a pillar of the european digital single market. i therefore support the objective of this regulation to reduce the cost of deploying high-speed and ultra-high-speed electronic communications networks by means of tools that allow for more cost-efficient deployment of the new physical infrastructure, reduction of administrative burdens, shared use of existing infrastructure and harmonisation of civil engineering works.
in writing. - a high-quality digital infrastructure is crucial for virtually all sectors of a modern and innovative economy and society, as it is a necessary precondition for the functioning of the european digital single market. the lack of synergies between the various operators and owners of physical infrastructure and the fragmentation of national rules have led to increased costs, bureaucracy and technical obstacles to the creation of a uniform european network. synergies between networks should therefore be maximised by ensuring that the regulation targets providers of electronic communications networks and owners of physical infrastructure suitable for hosting elements of the electronic communications network. all this must be done without forgetting the centrality of the principle of subsidiarity, a key element in european internal action.
in writing. - in line with the ppe and with mrs wortmann-kool, i voted in favour of this report, which aims to extend the scope of regulation (ec) no 718/1999 laying down measures to support structural improvements in the shipping sector, in particular with regard to the capacity of the fleet of member states with inland waterways linked to those of another member state. in view of the need to support the inland waterway sector vigorously, i think it is right to include training programmes for all crew members and to make it possible to use funds for the innovation of ships and their adaptation to technical progress in terms of environmental performance. i also welcome the commission's proposal to extend the current regulation to allow the reserve funds to be used to support the inland waterway sector more effectively and to create a favourable environment for innovation and improved safety and environmental performance, also in the light of the need to invest more in measures to promote 'greening' and innovation. moreover, cost-efficiency, energy and environmental performance are among the major advantages of such transport and as such should be constantly emphasised.
in writing. - while i share in part the proposals in the woormann-koll report, which analyses the transport of goods by inland waterway, i do not think it would be appropriate, especially in view of the period of crisis which has affected this sector, to impose restrictive rules on energy efficiency for inland waterway vessels, and for these reasons i abstained.
in writing. - a characteristic of the inland waterway sector is that it is largely based on smes, which are particularly vulnerable to the crisis and therefore in need of sector-specific support. to strengthen the sector, it is first of all necessary to strengthen its intermodal logistics, to offer a truly european network capable of reaching even the peripheral regions of the continent: in fact, inland waterways play a very important role in terms of strengthening a sustainable freight transport chain in europe, while the general trend today is a decline in the modal share of shipping.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report today because i am aware of the changes which the cap is currently undergoing and because european producers are increasingly facing competition from third countries. in the face of a delicate economic environment in the eu, it is appropriate to revitalize eu production in order to deal more effectively with the globalisation of trade, to increase market shares both inside and outside the eu and to react to crisis situations. the commission's proposal to include trademarks and the origin of products in information and promotion campaigns is an important step forward, given that many well-known products can serve to give a significant boost to those that are less well known to the consumer. the introduction of direct management of multi-country programmes is also one of the most noteworthy changes. i also welcome the proposal to set up a technical support service for traders, which should also include advice and assistance to improve the level of protection of european products against imitation and counterfeiting in third countries.
in writing. - the garcia report, which analyses information and promotion measures for agricultural products on the internal market and in third countries, is balanced and does not present any particular criticisms, and for these reasons i have voted in favour of it.
in writing. - i support the report with a convinced vote in favour, especially as it introduces important improvements on the commission's proposal. i agree, for example, with a non-rigid approach to allocations between the internal market and third countries: if the aim is to respond to crises and promote higher standards of products of the european agri-food industry, which are largely absorbed by the internal market, it is not useful to set rigid limitations a priori. the strategy of placing the coordination of promotion initiatives on the commission is also appropriate, with the effect of preventing improper and unproductive competition between projects financed by the member states: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of consumers in the event of a dispute between the commission and the member states. i also support the recommendations concerning wine production and more generally the extension of the eligible products: the culture of quality food has long been horizontal across different economic sectors, closely linked to environmental, landscape, cultural and lifestyle aspects: the european union is a privileged area for cultures, and i would venture to say european cultures. the report also calls for the establishment of a european food safety authority, which would be responsible for ensuring that the food safety standards are complied with.
in writing. - i have welcomed the commission's proposal because i believe that it is necessary to give new value to eu production in order to support european producers who are increasingly faced with competition from third countries. i believe that this proposal, once it has been amended, is a step in the right direction, because it will enable european producers to deal more effectively with the globalisation of trade, to increase market shares both inside and outside the eu and to be able to react to critical situations.
in writing. - the european union has 500 million consumers, 14 million are farmers, 4 million people work in the food sector. the gross domestic product of agriculture and the agri-food industry is around 6%. europe needs a supply of healthy and nutritious food at affordable prices. it is therefore right that the regulation voted today seeks to restructure the promotion policy to the benefit of producers and smes in the agricultural sector. i am particularly pleased with the compromise reached on the wine sector. i hope, however, that some of the criticisms can be resolved. for example, there are still doubts about the openness of public-private partnerships in the agricultural sector to potential operators who may submit promotion projects.
in writing. - the commission's proposal to include trademarks and the origin of products in information and promotion campaigns is an important step forward, given that many well-known products can serve to give a significant boost to those less well-known to the consumer. i do not agree with the abolition of national co-financing of promotion and information measures, which would considerably increase the contributions charged to operators and hinder the participation in promotion and information campaigns of the firms most affected by the economic crisis.
in writing. - one of the challenges facing europe in the near future will be to find solutions to cope with demographic change and promote active and healthy ageing. information and communication technologies can play an important role in improving the quality of life of older people and in increasing the effectiveness of care. solutions should therefore be sought to ensure more uniform and simplified rules, aligning as far as possible the rules for participation in the active and independent living (aal) scheme with those of horizon 2020.
in writing. - i voted today in favour of the report on the research and development programme to support active and independent living. with the increase in the number of people aged 65 to 80, the eu will face new challenges to which it will have to provide appropriate responses and find sustainable solutions to manage demographic change, promoting an active lifestyle and good health. the so-called 'grey economy' is an opportunity to develop innovative services and products that meet social needs and promote economic development and new business models. i welcome some of the ideas that take account of the many aspects that could be useful to consolidate the aims of the programme in relation to the general strategic objectives, aligning it with the horizon 2020 framework programme. the following are among the most important: the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 concerning the establishment of a european data protection supervisor, the appointment of a european data protection supervisor and the appointment of a european data protection supervisor.
in writing. - the projected increase in the number of people aged 65 to 80 (40% between 2010 and 2030) will put 21st century europe in front of the important and urgent challenge of finding solutions to cope with demographic change and promote active ageing. i therefore supported the report by mr turmes, who proposes solutions based on the development of innovative services and products that meet social needs and also promote the economic development of new business models.
in writing. - i confirm my keen interest in measures to meet the challenge of extending working life, which is an inescapable part of the future of the continent. i therefore announce that i shall vote in favour of the report, with a few points to be noted. the call for greater policy coherence between the aal and horizon 2020 programmes' regimes, for example, is not without foundation, also in order to promote a wider participation of innovative smes that can contribute with important pilot projects and breakthrough technologies. this is actually a fairly mature market, with the first gps or web-based solutions being introduced to the market more than ten years ago. telemedicine solutions, coordinated with reform projects increasingly oriented towards light home care, are already widely used by users and now constitute a body of reference best practices for medical staff and the processing of patients' clinical data. finally, i would point out how such research programmes could offer a key to the dilemma of our welfare systems in the face of the incomprehensible growth in demand for services: substantially reduce the treatment offered or allow private individuals, from service providers, to become de facto co-actors in the governance of health and care systems.
in writing. - the proposed solutions aim at energy efficiency in health and social care systems, reducing the need for transport. these technologies can play an important role in improving the quality of life of older people and their careers. the emphasis on social inclusion, well-being, sustainability is very positive. i therefore expressly vote in favour.
in writing. - in view of the ageing of the european population, which poses major challenges for europe, innovative solutions to address the active ageing of the population are needed. in this sense, a key objective is to support energy-efficient solutions for health and social care systems by, for example, reducing the need for transport. more generally, ethical principles must be respected, in particular data protection and privacy, where a high level of protection and security must be ensured. last but not least, the needs of disabled people will have to be adequately addressed.
in writing. - economic growth and job creation in europe depend substantially on the growth of innovative enterprises. it is essential to stimulate economic growth and job creation in the eu so that more and more european smes become innovative, high-growth businesses. with the establishment of eurostars in 2008, political support has grown for actions in favour of research-driven smes and for instruments that contribute to the realisation of the european research area. i therefore support the eurostars-2 joint programme for 2014-2020 and the horizon 2020 programme. the impact of these on innovation, the european economy and employment and the labour market will be considerable.
in writing. - i fully support this proposal because it aims at achieving a greater impact on research and innovation by developing closer synergies, increasing coordination and avoiding unnecessary duplications with international, national and regional research programmes. the programme will meet a number of genuine needs of smes engaged in research and development. in combination with the activities under the horizon 2020 framework programme, it will contribute to speed-up the development of the technologies and help innovative european smes to grow into world-leading companies.
in writing. - today i approved the report on the proposal for a european parliament and council decision on the participation of the union in a research and development programme undertaken by several member states to support small and mediumsized enterprises carrying out research activities. i am fully convinced that closer synergies need to be developed to optimise coordination and avoid unnecessary overlap with international, national and regional research programmes. at the same time, in line with the objective of simplification, the administrative and bureaucratic burden should be reduced for all parties. duplication of audits and over-documentation and reporting should be avoided. finally, in view of the overall objective of horizon 2020 to achieve greater simplification and harmonisation in the research and innovation funding landscape at eu level, the duration of all public-public partnerships funded under horizon 2020 should be aligned with the duration of the framework programme in order to avoid in the future several sets of rules running in parallel and the related additional administrative burden for participants.
in writing. - i consider the ransdorf report to be balanced and acceptable and therefore i have voted in favour of the proposal for the european union to participate in a development programme initiated by several member states to support small and mediumsized enterprises carrying out research.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for a decision on the participation of the union in a research and development programme launched by several member states to support small and medium-sized enterprises carrying out research activities, since it aims to promote transnational research cooperation between 'research-engaged smes', possibly also cooperating with organisations such as universities or research institutes. these measures should encourage fast-growing, internationally active and competitive smes and compensate for the lack of private funding for research activities of smes, particularly in the current environment. priority will be given to transnational market-oriented research activities that contribute to the renewal and improvement of products, processes and services. a further objective is to involve smes without experience in the field of transnational research.
in writing. - i think that the programme is very useful for the real needs of smes carrying out research and development activities. the amendments proposed by parliament seek to develop closer synergies, improve coordination and avoid unnecessary overlap with national and regional european research programmes. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the commission's proposal for a second phase of the eurostars joint programme to finance transnational research carried out by small and mediumsized enterprises (smes). the eurostars-2 programme will enable research-based smes to benefit from a contribution of eur 287 million from horizon 2020. the technological improvements that will result from this programme will enable eu businesses to grow and thus create new jobs. this compromise text drawn up by parliament and the council raises the ceiling for financing operational costs from 2% to 6%, allowing the evaluation costs of the eurostars-2 project to be included, and introduces some flexibility as regards the criterion of the proportion of fte required for an sme to be defined as 'engaged in research'.
in writing. - today, in line with the ppe, i voted in favour of the proposal for a european parliament and council decision on the eu's participation in the european metrology research and innovation programme jointly launched by several member states. in a world of high technology, the science of measurement is proving to be a fundamental element. the overall objective of empir is to provide metrology solutions to promote innovation and industrial competitiveness and measurement technologies to address societal challenges such as health, environment and energy, by stimulating policy development and implementation. another important objective of the proposal is the creation of an integrated european metrology research system with a critical mass and active engagement at regional, national, european and international levels. i therefore welcome the commission proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the eu's participation in the european metrology research and innovation programme because it is an essential element of the investment package for innovation in horizon 2020.
in writing. - the overall objective of empir is to provide metrology solutions to support innovation and industrial competitiveness as well as measurement technologies to address societal challenges such as health, environment and energy, facilitating policy development and implementation. as i share these objectives, i have voted in favour of this report, which welcomes the commission's proposal for the european union to participate in the european metrology programme for research and innovation, which is being jointly launched by several member states as an important element of the investment package for innovation in the horizon 2020 programme.
in writing. - metrology is a key element of our high-tech world and this programme aims to provide metrological solutions to support innovation and industrial competitiveness, as well as, not least, measurement technologies that can monitor, predict and prevent societal challenges such as health, environment and energy, fostering the development and implementation of far-sighted and efficient policies.
in writing. - i voted for this report because i believe that the european and developing countries clinical trials partnership programme will accelerate the clinical development of effective, safe and affordable medical interventions for poverty-related diseases. there is a need to develop partnership with developing countries such as sub-saharan africa to tackle the negative impacts of poverty-related diseases which affect 1 billion people. moreover, given the humanitarian aspect of this important sector we need to make sure that the best possible outcomes are achieved. therefore, coordinating closely with other organisations from public, private and voluntary sectors is also vital, not only to maximise the investments of members states but also to minimise overlap and duplication.
in writing. - this report aims to accelerate the clinical development of effective, safe and affordable medical interventions for poverty-related diseases as the overarching goal of edctp2. there is a strong awareness in the european parliament of the need to work in partnership with developing countries, such as those in sub-saharan africa, to deal with the negative impact of poverty-related diseases (long gone in europe), which affect one billion people and tragically cause huge loss of life. although there have already been some good results with the previous programme, i believe that the highest priority must be the efficient use of resources, in order to achieve significant results in a reasonable time. close coordination with other public, private and voluntary sector organisations with similar objectives is also essential, not only to maximise member states' investment but also to minimise overlap and duplication. it is therefore imperative to continue to work towards the discovery of vaccines and therapeutic and curative applications, as well as improved procedures or processes.
in writing. - given the humanitarian nature of this important activity, efficient use of resources is essential to ensure maximum results. to maximise results, the proposal to create close coordination with other public, private and voluntary sector organisations with similar objectives is welcome.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report today because i think it is appropriate to try to shed light on some of the criticisms in the area of debt recovery. the eu currently has a number of instruments to facilitate the recovery of bad debts. these include the european small claims procedure, the european order for payment procedure and the european enforcement order for uncontested claims. although these instruments facilitate the recognition of judgments on crossborder recovery of claims, much remains to be done in the field of transitional measures and harmonisation of national provisions. the proposal for a regulation suggests the adoption of a new judicial instrument of a precautionary nature, the european account preservation order (easo), which the creditor will be able to use as an alternative to national proceedings. in line with the rapporteur and the vote in the juri committee, i welcome the amendments indicated, particularly as regards the definitions and the procedure for obtaining an oesc for emission conditions; means of proof, liability of the creditor, etc.
in writing. - the baldassarre report, which analyses the legislation on the conservative seizure of bank current accounts, is balanced and acceptable. the commission's proposals will greatly simplify the bureaucratic procedures for crossborder debt recovery in both civil and commercial matters, and for these reasons i intend to vote in favour.
in writing. - according to a study by the european commission, less than 12% of firms are seeking to recover their debts across borders through national seizures. it is therefore not surprising that in july 2011, the european commission to facilitate the recovery of cross-border claims in civil and commercial matters proposed a regulation to establish a european account preservation order (epa). i agree with the reasoning in the text and support the adoption of this important legal instrument which the creditor will be able to use as an alternative to national proceedings. furthermore, the commission also estimates that the use of the proposed measure could enable companies to recover up to eur 600 million of outstanding claims.
in writing. - in order to ensure the maximum effectiveness of the measure, i support the surprise effect created in the implementation phase of the oecd, which prevents the debtor from withdrawing or transferring the sums held in other bank accounts located in a state other than that of the proceedings. i also support the proposal to extend and clarify the information which the debtor must provide when filling in an application for an esc. as a counterweight, i welcome the introduction of creditor liability, so that the esco does not cause damage to the debtor in the event of revocation, amendment or interruption or unfounded claims.
in writing. - i voted today in favour of mr baldassarre's report on the disclosure of non-financial information and information on diversity by certain companies and large groups. i agree with the rapporteur's position that we should adopt a legislative proposal on non-financial reporting which allows 'large flexibility of action to take account of the multidimensional nature of csr and the diversity of csr policies applied by companies' and, at the same time, a sufficient level of comparability to meet the needs of investors and other stakeholders and the need to ensure that consumers have easy access to information on the impact of companies on society'. in order to avoid any misunderstanding as to the binding nature of the provisions, i think it is appropriate to clarify certain concepts, in this case the value of the normative principle known as 'comply or explain', since the proposal contains a double obligation: the commission has also proposed that the member states should be required to provide information on the implementation of the directive and to provide the commission with a report on the implementation of the directive. finally, the priority must be to avoid any legal uncertainty and to ensure maximum uniformity in the interpretation of the provisions.
in writing. - while i agree with many parts of the baldassarre report, which analyses the regulatory framework on the disclosure of non-financial information and diversity information by certain companies and certain large groups, i believe that the line that has emerged from the negotiations with the council is weaker than the initial one. that is why i abstained.
in writing. - non-financial and diversity information can help companies to better define their socially responsible role and to better highlight the effects of their activities on the environment in which they operate. at a time when attention to the ethical conduct of companies is increasingly important to investors, csr can also act as a stimulus for competitiveness. i agree with the rapporteur that the current rules are not very clear, since they have so far been regulated by accounting directives and by rather fragmented and varied national legislation. it is therefore important to define the legislation better, including certain definitions: for example, the concept of risk needs to be clarified and the link to the activities, transactions, products or business relationships of the enterprises that may have a greater negative impact on the aspects included in the report seems to be a rather inclusive but at the same time clear and precise definition.
in writing. - the iacolino report is balanced and does not contain any particular criticisms, so i have voted in favour of it.
in writing. - the stockholm programme recognises the importance of legal immigration as a factor in economic growth and long-term competitiveness for the eu, but great care needs to be taken in this area. although the current system is considered to be too rigid in some areas, entry should not be allowed to ignore potential social pressures, including the issue of family reunification of the worker's relatives. finally, the intra-european mobility aspect would allow the transferred worker to move to another member state to work in another entity belonging to the group of undertakings.
in writing. - the ehler report on the clean sky 2 joint undertaking is balanced and does not present any particular criticisms, which is why i voted in favour of it.
in writing. - i believe that greater harmonisation between clean sky 2 and horizon 2020 is appropriate in order to improve clarity for stakeholders and to further simplify and reduce the administrative burden for participants and the joint undertaking through the shortening of the joint undertaking. a joint mid-term evaluation may also help to ensure greater harmonisation and coordination by allowing for a continuous evaluation of the work of the joint undertaking. on the governance side, i agree that we need high levels of openness and transparency.
in writing. - i fully support the objective of achieving a resource-efficient economy based on renewable resources through sustainable bio-industries that do not use gmos. that is why i voted in favour of the text put to the vote.
in writing. - there is a broad consensus on the strategic value of the bio-industries sector, with projections estimating a global market of 250 billion by 2020 and an estimated annual increase in the volume of european products of 5 per cent per annum, for a european market of at least 40 billion and almost 100,000 highly skilled workers. i therefore welcome the van nistelrooij report and i am voting in favour of it, to underline the merits of some of the amendments which have been tabled. i would first like to draw attention to the need to coordinate the available incentive and support policies, which was already the focus of the second meeting of the european panel on bio-economies in february. i would stress the potential for the creation of new value chains in the context of the conversion towards circular economies, which affects sectors ranging from higher education to agriculture, and which is reflected in the forecasts for the maximum possible participation in the jv. it is therefore important to involve agribusiness closely (including with a view to remediation and solidarity with peripheral areas) and smes, to avoid obstacles and negative impacts such as those recorded in the report on smes and reach. finally, the strategic value of the project is demonstrated by the willingness of bic member companies to make a significant financial contribution to initiatives to develop bioeconomies.
in writing. - the transnational and complex nature of this major research and innovation challenge can only be addressed by pooling complementary knowledge and financial resources that go beyond individual sectors and national borders. the proposed jti will allow for the necessary coordination of programme and resources. the joint undertaking shall in any event be in line with the research and innovation priorities of horizon 2020.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the sesar joint undertaking until 2024 as an important component of the 'investment for innovation' package under horizon 2020. as i believe that a coordinated approach to research and innovation in air traffic management (atm) is essential in the single european sky (ses), i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because it provides for the extension of the sesar joint undertaking until 2024 as an important component of the 'investment for innovation' package under horizon 2020. the joint undertaking will continue the coordinated research and innovation approach to air traffic management (atm) in the single european sky (ses).
in writing. - the sesar joint undertaking should have a strict policy on conflicts of interest and their management. as with other joint undertakings, governance and operation should be open, transparent and effective and should allow a wide range of stakeholders to be active in their specific fields. the sesar shall also be in line with the research and innovation priorities of horizon 2020 and comply with the horizon 2020 participation rules.
in writing. - i agree with the proposal for a regulation on the joint undertaking for the innovative medicines initiative, i find the text balanced and i think it best pursues the objectives of public interest in this particularly sensitive area, for these reasons i intend to vote in favour.
in writing. - in the field of intellectual property, there are still a number of concerns among stakeholders, although the european parliament has strongly advocated full compliance with the rules of participation. parliament also welcomed the concerns of stakeholders about the lack of meaningful involvement of the research community in the development of strategic research agendas, which should be a determining factor for coherence and strategic planning within the health challenge.
in writing. - i believe that horizon 2020 has a good chance of building on the success of the seventh framework programme and of further supporting european research through the investment of public money and the promotion of private investment in such a way as to allow the more rapid development of a true european research area. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - joint undertakings are an important tool for the implementation of horizon 2020, bringing together the public and private sectors in targeted partnerships that optimise the leverage effect of public funds and facilitate the evolution of ideas into tangible products. however, the right balance needs to be struck between the freedom of the joint undertakings to operate autonomously and adherence to the objectives and principles of horizon 2020. the ecsel joint undertaking has the particularity that some member states of the union will also be part of the joint undertaking as ecsel member states, which will have the advantage of mobilising national and union funds, but at the same time will pose the challenge of coordinating the different national funding authorities and their eligibility criteria with union funding and criteria.
in writing. - i share the evidence emerging from the report analysing the fuel cells 2 joint undertaking, i consider the technical progress and operational results of the first fuel cell programme to be significant and i believe that hydrogen, as an energy carrier, can be used as a clean fuel. for all these reasons i have decided to support the text with my vote.
in writing. - hydrogen is a very important and increasingly popular energy carrier, since it can be used as a clean fuel and is, in theory, without limits. developing a denser infrastructure system in the eu will allow for more efficient use of hydrogen in transport and other sectors of the economy, while also raising public awareness of the potential benefits of fch technologies for eu citizens. the budgetary appropriations are significant, but there is a need for greater clarity in the definition of the amounts for the contributions of the partners and their constituent entities other than the union to the operational costs, in-kind contributions to projects and complementary activities, and contributions of other participants to in-kind contributions to projects and complementary activities.
in writing. - i find the gualtieri report to be very agreeable and well thought out. i think it is essential to review the existing system and to set up a transparency register for monitoring interest groups and lobbies, so that we can have effective monitoring of their activities within the institutions.
in writing. - i agree with the report and i vote in favour. the relationship between decision-makers and stakeholder representatives must be transparent, governed by simple and clear rules, applied with uniform rigour. the report by mr de gucht, which i am sure will be very useful to the house, is a report which is very much in line with the spirit of the treaty of rome. i therefore support the forecasts in paragraph 19. i would like to invite you to compare our system with that of the american fec - the only one, probably, comparable in terms of size and cultural and legal affinities of the system. we see that in countries where lobbying and interest representation activities are not clearly regulated, this leads to an overall legal uncertainty that promotes the opacity of the decision-making process or unjustified negative prejudice, which often results in poor quality legislation. the quality of the legislative output of an assembly, in its task of balancing the multiple interests of complex societies, is closely linked to a clear and up-to-date perception of the specific characteristics of each subject area, also in the resulting representations offered by the actors of the different sectors.
in writing. - the word lobby in some eu member countries seems to have a negative connotation, but this is unfair within the european institutions. parliamentarians very often have to make decisions on technical and complicated matters that they are not always aware of. so information from lobbyists is sometimes necessary. the politician must decide for the common good and not for the good of individuals, groups or even isolated nations. it would be useful if he had information from opposing interests. since this is difficult, transparency is a necessary condition to reduce the risk of biased decisions. the report we voted on deserves our approval because of its caution in requiring compulsory registration on the one hand, but on the other hand in describing precise incentives which presuppose the freedom to ask for registration or not to ask for registration. it is, of course, right that those who are not registered cannot even carry out any real lobbying activity. the examination of professional situations involving the obligation of confidentiality with regard to customers is also to be welcomed. the deferral of the resolution of the related problems to further examination is justified.
in writing. - i voted in favour of measures to encourage lobbyists working with the european institutions to sign the eu's public register for transparency. i believe that in order to prevent the strength of a few from prevailing over the interests of the many, the activities of interest groups must be transparent and follow strict rules. for this reason, i consider the inclusion of lobbyists in the register for transparency to be a necessary step. to date, about 75% of all major business-related organisations and about 60% of the ngos operating in brussels have signed the register. i hope that when these measures come into force, the number of lobbyists on the register will increase.
in writing. - as regards the establishment of a future mandatory transparency register, it was concluded that at present eu law does not provide a sound legal basis for mandatory registration of lobbyists. in view of this, i agree with the house that the commission should promote political action to create a new legal basis, while promoting a series of incentive measures, in order to improve the acceptance of the register for transparency and to motivate more people to register.
in writing. - despite some agreeable proposals, i do not think that the text under consideration contains any truly effective strategies for employment growth, which is why i abstained.
in writing. - work is the real emergency at the moment, in italy and in europe, and it concerns young people and those who are not so young, who find themselves in dramatic situations and with not exactly serene prospects. for a young man who has finished his studies, even a precarious job, which is poorly paid and without any guarantee, is becoming almost a mirage. the tragedy also affects people in their 40s and 50s who are paying a very high price with this crisis, forced to move or to be laid off, often with whole families to support. in italy we have also added the fornero reform, which has created tens of thousands of refugees, and for which i called last week for decisive action from brussels, which cannot continue to pretend that it is not doing anything. i do not know what real results have been achieved so far through these trilateral summits between the european institutions, governments and the social partners: i think that nothing concrete has been achieved and the european employment strategies have unfortunately proved to be a dismal failure. the next horizon is 2020, and i hope that at least this time europe can do something about this continuing emergency.
in writing. - the dehaene and kalfin report on the outcome of the negotiations for the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020 contains a number of contradictory and unsatisfactory aspects, which is why i did not intend to support it with my vote.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am convinced that freedom of movement is one of the foundations of europe today and tomorrow. i think that any form of protectionism in our economy is wrong, because economies must measure themselves in the global market on the basis of the quality of their actions and the products they put on the market, whether they are consumer goods or services. i also think that the directive on the posting of workers is a bad directive, that it has nothing to do with the idea of restricting freedom of movement or that it does not lead to protectionism. it is a bad directive because it encourages dumping, because if we really want freedom of movement not to be punitive for anyone, we must guarantee the same conditions everywhere. the commission's proposed directive is simply an interpretative directive of the original one and puts a few coloured pieces on a suit already full of holes, as has been the case over the years. i therefore believe it is important that the next legislature should bring about a radical revision of these rules, not adjustments.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, it is well known that new jobs can only be created by growth policies, and growth policies are made possible by large-scale public investment which can stimulate private investment and give the regions competitiveness. it is equally clear, however, that everything that is needed to harmonize the labour market, to link demand with supply, to remove existing barriers to entry into the labour market, especially for young people, can be an important corollary. i therefore believe that the idea of enhanced cooperation between public employment services serves and should serve exactly this purpose and should be regarded as a binding commitment for all concerned. it will have to be written in such a way that it is clear to everyone what it is and what constraints each person has to submit to. but this is a right path that must be followed with courage.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i consider this agreement between parliament and the council to be very important and i congratulate mr vergiat on it, because it is a matter of importance for europe - it is very important for my country, italy - and also because of the ineffectiveness of the 1993 directive, which has actually seen few cases of actual restitution of stolen cultural property, even among member states, both because of the tight deadlines for restitution and compensation and because of the lack of clarity on the actual criteria for a property to be considered national heritage. but now we must move in two directions: better cooperation between the member states and better timing. there are, however, two problems. the first is the failure, even today, of some member states to sign the unesco and unidroit conventions, which would allow for greater commitment and the possibility of full participation in this cooperation. the other aspect is that of the definition of cultural heritage, which has been mentioned before, and which remains the sole prerogative of the individual member states and is not shared, as is that relating to the periods before 1993.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in this last speech to the house i would like to thank the commission, commissioner potočnik, for the support he has given so far to our suggestions, not least the suggestion to revise the packaging directive. i hope that you will now have the courage to clarify your priorities between the market and the environment. i believe i am not the only one left who believes in rio +20, an economy that combines job creation with environmental and health protection, waste as a resource and reducing the impact on raw materials. if the problem is to reduce the waste left in the environment to create damage, replacing plastic with another product is not necessary: the pressure would just shift from one sector to another, for example paper would shift to forests. instead, let's start reducing non-biodegradable plastic and we'll be well on our way. we have to make sure that we have rules that are consistent with what we say, that we ban the dumping of plastic waste in landfills, that we set criteria for organic and mechanical recycling, that we remove harmful substances from the market. we didn't get it done with this warrant, so we're hoping that whoever's in the next one will try again.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, my country, italy, is in full agreement with this initiative of the commission, and has already raised this matter several times before, and has recently adopted legislation such as a ban on the marketing of single-use plastic carrier bags. in 2011, with this ban, he promoted the sale of biodegradable and compostable bags, which can then be reused for organ harvesting, and this is a very successful practice. i cannot understand how it is possible that even today, for the umpteenth time, people here want to be so shortsighted as not to recognize that this is an extraordinary answer. it's not true, as i've heard, that bags are not biodegradable, just as it's not true that if they end up in the recycling of traditional plastic, they create problems. we have many studies, which we have provided to everyone -- i repeat, to everyone -- that show that biodegradable, compostable, en13432 compliant plastics, when they finish their function and go into the environment, they dissolve, when they end up in recycling, up to 10 percent of presence -- conai study -- in traditional plastics, there is no problem, and in real life, bags are so few that they don't even reach 1 percent. it is clear that the lobbies here are very different from those of the greens! gentlemen, let's open our eyes: it's a shame, a scandal, i, as an italian, am really horrified by my myopia, by my lack of vision. if this vote is not done properly, we will pay for it, the sea, the environment and our children will continue to pay for it. we have a chance tomorrow to vote seriously and to think seriously about the stupid things that have been said today.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this directive may represent a missed opportunity for this parliament. firstly, it came to a standstill because the committee on industry, which has the power to deliver an opinion, was unable to produce the document i had prepared because of the blind obstructionism of the german delegation which prevented it from being discussed in the house. in doing so, it has not been possible to highlight the very great difference between plant-based bioplastics and traditional plastics coming from the oil industry. we could have developed a pan-european economy based on bio-based plastics, i.e. those which can be used and composted, and which represent not only the great innovation and research expenditure, but also the great investments which our industries are making in the name of perfect compatibility between man and the environment. we have instead been foolish in wanting to close a dialogue on bio-based products, which could have represented not only the growth of an economy but a serious solution that italy had already anticipated through its own legislation on a very difficult issue such as the disposal of plastic bags. we could have turned a problem, like the accumulation of traditional plastic bags, into a resource for our economy, a resource given by their use because bio-based plastics - which are very degradable - can be a useful container of moisture or compostable at the end of their life for all those countries that use separate collection. we have really missed an opportunity because of the stupidity of the german delegation, because of the pressure exerted by the multinationals of traditional plastics, because we wanted to mix everything together, the sacred with the profane, that is, what represents a resource with what represents a problem. i really hope that the next legislature will deal with this problem in a much more serious, competent and decent way.
member of the commission. - madam president, i would like to say thank you very much to everybody. i think that what we can say after the discussion is that basically we really all share the belief that something needs to be done. there are some things which i would like to clarify and i am pretty sure that you are aware of the majority of them. of course the idea of the proposal was not to address the whole issue of all plastic and the problems which are connected with plastic; that is something that we are working on separately and that is something which was not the real target of this proposal. the real target was to address one of the emblematic issues of our consumer society, and basically we all agree that this is an emblematic issue of our consumer society. so it is not a coincidence that we have practically unanimous public opinion support on this. we should use that public support, but not only use it; we have a responsibility to the public support we are receiving. the second thing i would like to mention is that, frankly, there was not a lot of lobbying of any kind from the business side when we discussed these proposals. predominantly, lightweight plastic bags are not produced in europe; they are imported from outside europe. that is the bare fact and is something you can find out from statistics, and i just want to say that i myself did not experience any kind of pressure from lobbying in this context. the third thing i would like to mention comes from the fact that many of you are talking about biodegradability as an answer. we are certainly not yet at the point where we could provide a definite answer; i can only say at this moment that when we have to deal with biodegradable plastic bags there are some questions which definitely need to be addressed. one is that biodegradable plastic too will only biodegrade within a reasonable time. so if we look at it from the point of view of marine litter, which was one of the core issues that we wanted to address, it does not provide an answer. secondly, mixing biodegradable and conventional plastics could – in fact would – disrupt composting and recycling operations. so that is also an issue that we need to bear in mind. so too is the broader picture when bio-based plastic is made from crops that are grown especially for production of plastic. this is not clear cut because there is quite a heavy burden on the environment too – land use, fertilisers, land treatment – so it is a life cycle approach which you have to look at. i am not saying that i am negative about this. i am just saying that these are open questions that will need to be addressed when talking about biodegradable plastics, and certainly these are issues which sooner or later we will need to address properly. finally, because many of you are also talking about the ambition of the proposal and especially in the context of potentially introducing a target, let me try to explain. i am a person who believes in targets so i think that targets normally work pretty well. we have been considering targets very seriously but currently we have a situation where two things are important and we cannot neglect them. we have huge differences amongst member states – there are countries which use more than 200 per person per year and countries which use only four per person per year, so what kind of target would work there – a relative one? an absolute one? what should be proposed? that is the first difficulty. the second difficulty is basically connected to the fact that in quite a number of member states there are different kinds of approaches which deliver results – which work! of course we have a target in mind. we believe something like a reduction of close to 80% can be achieved. that is why we have basically proposed tools which member states can use, including the one which goes as far as a ban – if this is in line with the treaty of course; it is a quite radical approach. we have proposed too an obligation on the member states that they prepare plans, targets and instruments, and use them. they will have to report to us, we will monitor this, and of course if we find that those proposals are not in line with something which one would believe would give results, then we still have the possibility to act in different ways. in concluding, maybe we do not need a heavyweight approach to the lightweight problems even if they do without any doubt place a heavy burden on our environment, but we need solutions and basically we all agree on that.
in writing. the report concerns the revision of directive 94/62, i.e. the reduction of the consumption of lightweight plastic bags. i welcome the compromise reached in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety - of which i am a full member - which gives member states adequate flexibility in choosing from a wide range of measures to reduce the consumption of plastic bags. the report says that member states will be free to decide whether to adopt economic instruments, such as taxation, or to maintain existing systems, including those involving the use of biodegradable and compostable bags. in particular, the report highlights the value of compostable biodegradable plastic bags made in accordance with the european standard, a material for which the italian industry is at the forefront at international level. member states will have the possibility to reduce the final cost of the bag where separate collection systems for organic waste are in place. i believe that the revision of the packaging and packaging waste directive, as it is designed, will give a new impetus to investment in the bio-economy, a sector in which italian industry boasts that it has been among the first and most innovative in europe.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is absolutely essential to strengthen cooperation between the member states for operations coordinated by frontex, but this is the so-called trade union minimum, a policy on immigration and asylum which is still very far from being a common policy. to make this concept even clearer, i will give just a few figures: if the mediterranean flows continue as in the first months of 2014, italy will spend 110 million euros this year on border control and rescue operations. frontex has a total budget of eur 89 million, of which eur 34 million is allocated to administrative expenditure and the running of the agency alone. this means that, for 2014, frontex will only have 55 million available for operational activities, exactly half of what the italian government alone could spend. if we add to this the overall allocations of the immigration and asylum fund and the internal security fund, which are far lower than the commission's initial proposal, it is clear that there is a significant gap between what is declared and what is actually implemented at european level to ensure a genuine common immigration and asylum policy. for these reasons, i still believe that it is necessary to set up an operational headquarters for frontex in the mediterranean basin, perhaps in italy, by providing the agency with more resources and by limiting administrative costs as much as possible and, with the money thus saved, securing new agreements with the countries of origin and transit of migrants, also in order to combat trafficking in human beings.
member of the commission. - mr president, honourable members, thank you very much for this debate. i think it is important to remember why we are here. we are not only setting out regulations and rules and procedures: we are actually setting out very clear binding rules for an effective and proper functioning of frontex-coordinated sea operations. it will hopefully enable all european union countries to cooperate and it is a clear expression of solidarity and commitment to the values that we defend – the right to ask for asylum, the importance of ensuring correct application of the principle of non-refoulement and making everything possible to avoid tragedies such as the ones we have seen lately in the mediterranean. on third countries, it is true that it makes disembarkation in third countries possible when interception takes place on the high seas, and this could happen in the course of a rescue situation if a port in a third country were to be considered a place of safety. this was already set out in the 2010 guidelines that the council adopted. what is new – and this is very important – is that the draft regulation we are discussing now, and that you will hopefully vote for with a strong majority tomorrow, sets out specific procedures which need to be followed to ensure the correct application of the non-refoulement principle, before any disembarkation in a third country takes place. they will also be followed by a subsequent reporting mechanism by frontex, so we hope that we can hereby better protect the rights of migrants. this compromise – because it is a compromise – is a clear improvement on what we had today. it is a necessary improvement and it would not have been possible without the hard work of this house, of mr coelho and all the shadow rapporteurs, and the council. i hope that you will endorse it tomorrow and that the council will follow it through very quickly, so that we can have these new rules entering into force very soon. i would like also to take this opportunity to thank many of you for your excellent cooperation on this file and many others.
he is seeking the presidency of the council. - i know . i would like to say that i fully agree with the main point made by commissioner malmström and the rapporteur, mr coelho, that this is a compromise which improves the regulatory framework of the european union, but it is certainly not a solution to the problem and it is not an integrated migration policy. when the dilemma is whether or not to respect human rights, the answer is easy. we must have full respect for human rights and international law. the humanitarian aspect is always the one that is overlooked, but the distance between our will, a theoretical statement of human rights, and the reality of operations at sea is unfortunately very great. it is therefore important to establish rules of engagement and to apply rules of an official nature. these rules may now apply to the undertakings of the 'handels- und dienstleistungsgesellschaft'. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, to the council, to the european parliament, to the commission, to the council, to the european parliament, to the commissioner, to the commissioner, to the commissioner, to the commissioner, to the commissioner, to the commissioner, to the commissioner, to the commissioner, to the commissioner, to the commissioner, to the commissioner, to the commissioner, to the commissioner, to the commissioner, to the commissioner, to the commissioner, to the commissioner, to the commissioner, to the commissioner, to the commissioner, to the commissioner, to the commissioner, to the commissioner, to the commissioner, to the commissioner, to the commissioner, to the commissioner, to the commissioner, to the commissioner, to the commissioner, to the commissioner, to the commissioner, to the commissioner, to the commissioner, to the commissioner, to the commissioner, to the commissioner, to the commissioner, to the commissioner, to the commissioner, to the commissioner, to the commissioner, to the commissioner, to the commissioner, to the commissioner, to the european commissioner, to the commissioner, to the commissioner, to the european commissioner, to the commissioner, to the commissioner, to the european commissioner, to the commissioner, to the commissioner, to the commissioner, to the commissioner, to the commissioner, to the commissioner, to the commissioner, to the commissioner, to the commissioner, to the commissioner, to the commissioner, to the commissioner, to the commissioner, to the commissioner, to the commissioner, to the commissioner, to the commissioner, to ♪ i'm not a man ♪
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 16 april 2014. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the report by toine manders, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council laying down rules to facilitate the transfer within the single market of motor vehicles registered in another member state (com ((2012) 0164 - c7-0092/2012 - 2012/0082 ((cod)) (a7-0278/2013).
vice-president of the commission. - madam president, i would like to thank the members who took part in the debate and made it possible to reach this agreement. i would like to thank mr harbour in particular, who is leaving this parliament because of his decision. it was his last speech as a member of parliament, and my last as a commissioner during this term. i hope to return to this parliament as a member because i believe that those who have held the office of commissioner should submit to the judgment of the people, as should those who aspire to become commissioners. i would like to congratulate mr harbour on his great capacity: i have had the opportunity to work with him, to agree with him and to compare our views, sometimes we had tough discussions, but always in a relationship of deep friendship. i am referring, for example, to the affair of 'made in' and article 7 this morning. i think, however, that without mr harbour this parliament will be a little weaker because his presence has always qualified it, enriching all our debates. i really wanted to give him credit for that because i believe that people like him should be recognised by all parliamentarians and politicians, even if they do not agree with his political choices, because he is certainly a leading figure in political europe. i therefore thank mr harbour for all the work he did with me when we were both members of parliament. i later became a commissioner and he became chairman of such an important committee. thank you, thank you very much, my friend, for what you did. good luck, i wish you the best of success in your homeland. thank you very much, thank you all, thank you madam president. i repeat: i am prepared to come back to this house and sit on benches other than those of the commission, to demonstrate once again how attached i am to this house, as i believe i have shown in my years as a commissioner. without a close relationship between parliament and the commission, it is difficult to legislate within the european union, and an increasingly democratic europe will have to see the link between the executive and parliament strengthened every day.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 16 april 2014.
in writing. this year marks the 100th anniversary of the outbreak of world war i, in which over 20 million military and civilian casualties were lost, and even more horrifying was the number of wounded. it was a real tragedy, fought on european soil between nations and peoples who were never friends, who over the centuries often fought for dominance over each other. today, fortunately, we have lived for almost 70 years without conflicts between european states, and this is certainly a merit that must be attributed to the idea of europe conceived by people like schuman, de gasperi or adenauer: when i criticise the european union, it is also because i am thinking of those people who believed in a dream at the time, and i do not want it to be burned to the ground now because of wrong decisions that risk stirring up resentment among the people. peace is an absolute value, even for people like me who have never had war in their home: but our grandparents who are still alive know what this means, and we must fight to prevent this from happening again, even by criticizing the measures taken from above, which can bring anger and tension.
mr president, the situation in ukraine is deteriorating and the european union should accept its responsibility in this regard. several colleagues have said that russia is destabilizing ukraine, but these colleagues forget that we started this process. since the first days of the crisis, we, together with the united states, have been heavily interfering in the country, encouraging violent action and pitting one part of ukraine against the other. we should not have used ukraine as a means of countering russia on behalf of third parties. we should have been committed to building a strategic partnership with both, based on trust and cooperation. we must now preserve at all costs the window of opportunity for dialogue with russia which is the basis of tomorrow's meeting in geneva. that is why i believe that another inflammatory and arrogant resolution by this parliament against russia is harmful to europe's long-term interests.
in writing. - today, community workers moving between member states risk losing their acquired rights if the length of their residence is not considered to be long enough by the state to which they move. i voted in favour of the proposal which has emerged from the negotiations between the ep and the council, with the participation of the commission, to ensure legal certainty on supplementary pension rights. under these new rules, the period of active membership of a pension scheme required for a person to maintain supplementary pension rights will not exceed three years. i believe that this is a great step forward for the free movement of workers and a push towards a social europe.
in writing. - i give a favourable opinion on the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the council's position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the minimum requirements for increasing the mobility of workers between member states by improving the acquisition and maintenance of supplementary pension rights. the proposal under consideration is a further step in the direction indicated by the community lisbon programme, since it aims to facilitate the cross-border mobility of european workers. the text deals in particular with supplementary pension rights and aims to enact a coherent community directive to ensure that they are safeguarded despite the differences in the social protection systems in force in the individual member states. the recognition at community level of workers' pension rights is an essential measure for enhancing the flexibility of the european labour market. for these reasons, i regard this motion for a resolution as a valuable instrument for removing an obstacle to the free movement of workers within the union.
in writing. - food safety has always been at the heart of community action. the eu's agri-food industry is the second largest sector, with a total output of the food chain of around eur 750 billion per year, employing over 48 million people: from primary production to retail to catering. i believe strongly in the need to simplify the general legal framework, which is fragmented and overlapping and which leads to divergent interpretations and application at national level. i therefore voted in favour of the text calling for greater consistency throughout the system of controls.
in writing. - i support the report by my colleague and friend mr pirillo, which aims to modernise european legislation on official controls to ensure compliance with european legislation on food and feed, animal welfare and plant health and plant reproductive material. the report focuses on the need to have a food chain effectively controlled at all stages and integrates well with other sectoral regulations (animal health, plant disease measures, expenditure management) as part of an overall package on the food and plant chain. among the most positive elements of the text: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive. it is also important to have increased the degree of flexibility in the system of payment of the costs of the checks carried out: one of the important lines of the report allows member states to limit the burden of mandatory fees for controls on operators in the primary production sector. it is therefore a positive regulation which will contribute to the objective of a safer and more transparent food chain, and which i have therefore supported by voting in favour of it.
in writing. - the compromise reached by my colleague pirillo is good; the amendments are extremely positive: lower costs contributing to the formation of mandatory tariffs (in fact only staff salaries excluding social charges , travel expenses and costs of laboratory analyses remain); and discounts for operators who are consistently compliant, to name just a few. however, i am concerned that any exemptions from the payment of the mandatory fees may make the system economically unsustainable and that there may be implications for the control activity at the expense of the level of safety.
in writing. - the report by mr pirillo on food safety, which has always played a central role in community action, was voted on today in the plenary. in the food chain, official controls are an essential element for ensuring a high level of health protection and the correct implementation of complex legislation throughout the agri-food chain and for building consumer confidence. for the feed and food, animal health and animal welfare sectors, controls are currently governed by regulation (ec) no 882/2004, while those in other sectors, such as plant health controls, are governed by specific legislation. the report also calls for the commission to take a more active role in the fight against fraud and for the commission to be able to take a more active role in the fight against fraud. the rapporteur also believes that the threshold for surveillance in border controls and in the meat sector cannot and should not be lowered and that for these reasons controls should be entrusted to highly qualified staff who are able to detect the emergence of possible risks and dangers to human health.
in writing. - food safety has always been at the heart of community action. ensuring a high level of human, animal and plant health throughout the food chain is a key objective of the union, which requires a harmonised and comprehensive framework to be achieved. i agree with the rapporteur that the legal framework that the eu has developed so far has proved, on the whole, to be effective in preventing and combating risks, as eu products remain among the safest in the world precisely because of the controls they are subjected to. nevertheless, the increasingly long and complex agri-food chain exposes the european union to new risks and requires constantly improved controls along this chain. i therefore support the harmonisation of the minimum frequency of checks proposed by the rapporteur, as well as the creation of european reference centres, which will have the specific task of developing and validating methods to be used in the event of intentional breaches of the rules. finally, i also welcome the rapporteur's attention to micro-enterprises.
in writing. - i voted against this measure, which has possible negative effects on livestock farming and in italy the rules on the management of domestic animals already provide for the control systems referred to in the text.
in writing. - a european law on animal welfare, containing the general principles on duty of care, division of responsibilities and training requirements, would be of great value to animals and farmers in europe. however, the right balance between predictability and flexibility must be ensured. i also appreciate that the commission proposal focuses on rapid and effective measures to control and eradicate certain diseases, but we must not forget that the greatest costs to society are actually caused by endemic diseases which will not be listed in this regulation. finally, it should not be forgotten that a functioning internal market also requires good control of animals living in a country bordering the union, which makes strict buffer zones necessary to prevent the spread of diseases into the eu from neighbouring countries.
in writing. - the aim of the current eu regulatory framework in the field of plant health is to protect european agriculture and forestry by preventing the entry and spread of harmful organisms. the main instrument for this is council directive 2000/29/ec. this is a regulatory framework that has been criticised for some time for failing to stop the increasingly frequent entry of new pests into the territory of the european union as a result of the expansion of international trade. the experience of other countries suggests that a completely closed system does not prevent the spread of diseases but only adds unnecessary burdens to operators. the proposals in the text are exactly in that direction, and i have therefore decided to abstain.
in writing. - the commission proposes to extend the scope of regulation (ec) no 718/1999, to allow the reserve funds to be used to support the inland waterway sector more effectively and to create a favourable environment for innovation and improvement of safety and environmental performance. in my view, inland navigation offers many benefits: the commission will be able to assess the impact of the proposed measures on the environment and the environment in the light of the experience gained in the past. i therefore believe that we must make better use of its benefits by supporting investment in measures to promote 'greening' and innovation. however, the funds available under this regulation are rather limited, and i therefore call on the commission to optimise the financial instruments for the sector.
in writing. - the current eu regulatory framework in the field of plant health is intended to protect european agriculture and forestry by preventing the entry and spread of harmful organisms, however, in recent years the increase in imports has led to the emergence of significant outbreaks of dangerous pests, with particularly negative consequences for european forestry. for these reasons, the package proposed by the commission has an important objective which cannot be put on the back burner. in this respect, i share the view that all professional operators should be included in the protection regime against plant pests. furthermore, as regards the entry into force of the legislation, i believe it is useful to give national supervisory authorities and professional operators sufficient time to prepare for the new regime.
in writing. - the report on the proposal for a regulation on the safety of consumer products is of substantial importance for the italian industry, especially in connection with the proposal to include the indication of the country of origin among the information to be provided to consumers for all non-food products intended for them. this obligation to indicate origin, or the so-called 'made in' clause, was contained in the original proposal of the european commission, the text of which was confirmed by a vote in the relevant parliamentary committees. this provision, if approved, would achieve a twofold objective: the commission has also proposed that the eu should make the product more traceable on the european market and align the conditions under which european companies operate with those of the eu's main trading partners, which have already introduced similar provisions. i therefore welcome the european commission's proposal and, in particular, i support the wording of article 7 of the proposal containing the 'made in' clause. i believe that the positive outcome of the vote on this key point of the report represents the necessary incentive for the finalisation of an interinstitutional agreement on the initiative, helping to overcome the differences between member states which, until now, have precluded the possibility of reaching an ambitious agreement in the council.
in writing. - i voted today in favour of this report, in line with the ppe. finally, parliament has approved the regulation governing 'made in', with a whole series of standards which will have to be followed carefully by each individual state. as we all know, "made in italy" is the most imitated brand in the world: the commission's proposal for a regulation is therefore another step towards a greater defence of our excellences and towards official recognition of our products. with this report we have made a major breakthrough in the battle that has been going on for many years now and which has involved the council and the commission in lengthy negotiations with parliament. italy will thus be able to protect itself more effectively also in relation to exports by preserving the prestige of the 'made in italy' brand which it is entitled to and by safeguarding the expertise and know-how which have always characterized italian production.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the measure, and in this case article 7 which introduces the concept of product traceability and 'made in' which could have a considerable impact on the italian business system, which is made up for the most part of micro and small and medium-sized enterprises which make the marking of origin one of their strengths.
in writing. - the report on the safety of consumer products plays a key role in the effective completion of a european internal market which instills confidence in consumers and european citizens. in this context, the provision in article 7 of the regulation on the obligation to indicate origin, the so-called 'made in', can symbolically represent the european union's willingness to bet on its ability to emerge definitively from the economic crisis using one of the best weapons we have: quality manufacturing. it is not a question of erecting protectionist barriers to protect european production, but of ensuring information, transparency and traceability throughout the production chain, as is being done with great difficulty in the food chain: we must allow the european consumer to make informed choices about the products he buys. the approval of 'made in' would also remedy the current lack of reciprocity between the european union and many other countries in the world and help the fight against counterfeiting. a zero-cost measure will therefore have a number of positive effects: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. for these reasons, i strongly supported the schaldemose report.
in writing. - in the last few days alone, the financial guard has seized over a million dangerous consumer items, mostly toys intended for children for the easter holidays. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i not only note a healthy effort to systematize and update the legislation, but i also stress the value of the regulation as a safeguard for consumer protection in a globalised world, which has changed profoundly in its market, consumption and distribution aspects. the introduction of the precautionary principle, full traceability and the introduction of the ce+ mark are therefore welcome. i would like to stress two points in particular. as regards costs, the pia assesses them as being borne by firms, in comparison with the direct benefits of increased consumer confidence and the documented increase in trade in the european market. on a principle level, i also find it commendable that the costs of supporting control systems are being shifted from the taxpayer, who is himself a victim of unfair commercial practices, to those who engage in such practices, by increasing the sanctions regime, which will also have a deterrent effect.
in writing. - i strongly supported this report because the health of consumers must be absolutely protected against the danger of any counterfeiting. the counterfeit is not only chinese but also turkish, that is, the country which the european union is determined to defend and which it hopes will soon become a member of the eu. in-depth studies show that the most counterfeited products in turkey are italian products. moreover, italian companies in particular rarely take legal action, as they have no confidence in the objectivity of turkish courts. in turkey, counterfeit goods are particularly prevalent in the fashion sector, with particular emphasis on leather accessories such as bags and belts, footwear, sunglasses, jewellery, watches, cosmetics and perfumery. and let us not forget toys and gadgets that in most cases do not meet the health requirements. it is therefore pointless to mention the extent of the damage which is being caused to our production by the inaction of the turkish authorities and customs in the matter of controls. another reason, along with others, to support the no to turkey in europe!
in writing. - i voted in favour of the package on product safety and market surveillance. the battle won today ensures that all products are marked with the 'origin of origin'. italian excellence will thus be protected and easily recognised by consumers. the new rules, including electronic traceability and increased security in trade within the european union, send a strong signal against the black market for counterfeits. we have fought to protect the interests of small and mediumsized enterprises and to preserve the 'made in italy' from often unfair competition.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the mandatory introduction of the 'made in' label for non-food products sold on the community market. i believe that product safety is the key to ensuring a well-functioning single market and facilitating the growth of european businesses and the prosperity of the union through it. however, 27% of european consumers do not feel safe when operating in the single market, as revealed by a commission survey conducted in 2012 by eurobarometer. by making the 'made in' mark compulsory and imposing stricter penalties on fraudulent companies, a major step forward is made in the transparency of the supply chain of a product and greater security is given to consumers, thereby encouraging them to buy more products in the single market.
in writing. - parliament votes in favour of the regulation on the safety of consumer products, including its chapter 7 on the mandatory 'made in' mark, and rejects the council which has for years tried to block the implementation of rules and regulations to ensure the safety of european consumers and fair competition on the market. once again, governments that protect only retail against manufacturing have been defeated by their own representatives who are answerable to their own citizens. i leave the european parliament after 25 years of work for italy and europe, with the satisfaction of having seen the house vote twice for the 'made in' in defence of european consumers and producers and against those governments which are unable to defend the rights of their citizens. we now rely on the italian presidency to finally bring about a favourable vote in the council during its six-month term of office so that the rights of consumers and producers are recognised and production and therefore growth can finally be redistributed.
in writing. - pier antonio panzeri (s&d), mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am voting in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the safety of consumer products and repealing council directive 87/357/eec and directive 2001/95/ec. the simplification and harmonisation of the rules governing the internal market and the strengthening of consumer protection legislation are key objectives of community policies. in view of the intensification of international trade relations, the proposal aims at creating an effective european legislative framework which will act as a 'safety net' for product safety. first, the introduction of the ce+ mark, which is complementary to the existing ce marking, allows for the immediate identification of goods tested by qualified third parties. in addition, the compulsory indication of the country of origin of products ensures better traceability of goods and greater transparency in the marketing process. finally, the proposed regulation provides for a substantial strengthening of the internal market surveillance system by establishing contact points to optimise communication and cooperation between member states. i therefore welcome this proposal and hope that it will establish a relationship of trust between the european citizens and the single market.
in writing. - consumer product safety is a key aspect of the internal market, which the eu must take into account if the market is to be safe for consumers. some aspects are particularly relevant: i am referring in particular to measures relating to the traceability of products and the principle of origin, which i consider essential if the consumer is to be able to make informed and fully informed economic choices. traceability makes it possible to understand where a product comes from, so that the buyer can actually understand whether the country of origin is one of those that register the largest number of products that do not meet european safety criteria.
in writing. - more stringent rules on the control of products circulating on the union market have long been needed and desired. the text under voting succeeds in maintaining the right balance between the safety requirements for consumers and certain and functional standards for businesses, and finally facilitates cooperation between the authorities of the member states. for these reasons i have decided to support it.
in writing. - the commission proposal aims to establish a common european framework for market surveillance covering all products circulating in the internal market, including those imported from the union. the commission's analysis has shown that only 0,3% of goods imported or placed on the union market are controlled by the authorities, and this is an alarming figure. to ensure that crime does not pay, i voted in favour of stricter, more proportionate and more dissuasive penalties for companies that violate the rules of the market. i also think it is useful for the commission to draw up an eu-wide blacklist of companies which have intentionally and repeatedly breached product safety rules. this will increase the level of coordination, cooperation and exchange of information between the market surveillance and product safety authorities of the different member states.
in writing. - at the end of march, the european commission published the data on the annual activity of rapex, the rapid information system on dangerous products, which has been designed for ten years to identify and block non-compliant goods and products (other than foodstuffs) placed on the european market in a timely manner. the reports for 2013 were over 2,300, mainly concerning clothing, textiles, fashion items and toys, which together cover half of the total complaints. more than 64% of the irregularity reports come from one source, which i think is easy to guess, but which is worth mentioning again, because i will never tire of pointing out all the problems that originate in china. these are non-compliant products, which can also have serious health implications, and i am appalled that 25 percent of the reports concern toys and therefore the safety of our children. since its introduction in 2003, the number of reports to rapex has steadily increased, demonstrating an increasing risk: i hope that the report we have voted today will serve to establish and enforce stricter standards, because the invasion of highly dangerous chinese products must be stopped immediately.
in writing. - member states' market surveillance is still far from meeting the challenge posed by the increase in imports into the eu and the increased number of products circulating in the single market, which is also weakened by a highly cumbersome and inconsistent legal structure. it is therefore necessary to step up and strengthen cooperation between the supervisory authorities of the member states and the exchange of information, which currently relies mainly on rapex and icsms. as regards sanctions, they should in any case be dissuasive, but at the same time proportionate.
in writing. - as the text seeks to introduce greater transparency and regulation of financial markets, i voted in favour of it.
in writing. - i supported the two reports because they provide: strict limitations on exemption from mifid in order to include all commodity market players in the scope of the regulation; strengthening of provisions on position limits and strengthening of the powers of regulatory authorities to intervene on specific products or activities. the proposed recast of the markets in financial instruments directive and regulation (mifid and mifir) contains provisions explicitly aimed at addressing the need to strengthen the supervision and regulation of financial markets related to commodities. these proposals include, in particular, position limits or alternative provisions on commodity derivatives, which is a welcome move if the overall objective is to facilitate price fixing and effective hedging against the price risks to producers and consumers and thus to avoid and correct speculative bubbles and other distortions.
in writing. - commodity markets arise from the legitimate need of producers and consumers of raw materials, agricultural products and energy to protect themselves against factors affecting prices which are beyond their control. the growth of financial markets, however, has meant that in the last decade or so commodities have joined bonds and stocks as "investment assets". as the text calls for more information and transparency in this area, i voted in favour of it.
in writing. - the simplification of customs clearance procedures has meant that statistical information on goods under customs control is not available. the commission will also be presenting a report on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment. i believe that efficient statistical coverage will allow the proper monitoring of the functioning of the market, and i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. - the swinburne report is supportive and balanced; i believe that it will increase the security of the financial system and improve the efficiency of securities regulation, and i therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this text which rightly calls for guarantees of efficiency and safety in the equipment of ships.
in writing. - the marine equipment industry is a leading sector, benefiting from major investment in research and development. i voted in favour of the commission's proposal, which should lead to greater safety for ships and their crews, boost the marine equipment industry and promote job creation. we have, however, proposed a number of amendments to improve the proposal. some of these are aimed at strengthening legal certainty for member states and businesses. we believe that the possibility of supplementing or replacing the conformity marking with electronic plates should be further encouraged and that it is appropriate to ensure that market surveillance measures remain proportionate to the purpose pursued.
in writing. - the harmonization of the application of the safety standards for marine equipment still faces a number of delays in transposition at national level and in the verification of the competent bodies. the commission's approach is therefore welcome, since it aims precisely at simplifying the legal framework and improving the safety conditions for ships and their crews, giving a boost to the maritime equipment industry and promoting job creation. however, some clarifications are necessary, in particular as regards the delegated acts concerning the amendment of the list of international conventions requiring the consent of the flag state for equipment to be installed on board ships flying its flag and updating the references to european and international standards in annex iii to the directive.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the rapporteur's view that the adaptation of the nine product directives is a continuation of the nqf alignment package and therefore an important step towards completing the eu single market. the new regulatory framework introduces a simplified regulatory framework for products and allows for a more consistent implementation of technical standards which will help to improve the functioning of the single market by ensuring equal treatment of non-compliant products and economic operators and equal assessment of notified bodies across the eu market.
in writing. - the adaptation of the nine product directives is a continuation of the nqf alignment package which introduces a simplified regulatory framework for products and allows for a more consistent implementation of technical standards, which will ensure equal treatment of non-compliant products and economic operators as well as equal assessment of notified bodies across the eu market. this will lead to an increase in producer and consumer confidence, thanks to the clarification of the obligations of economic operators. this confidence can also be enhanced by reducing red tape and simplifying and modernising the procedures provided for in the nqf.
in writing. - the zwiefka report, which analyses the proposal for a regulation on the recognition of judgments in civil and commercial matters, makes some appreciable improvements compared with the previous legislation and does not present any particular criticisms, so i supported it with my vote.
in writing. - in a further vote to simplify and speed up decisions for the better working of the internal market, we are introducing an amendment to specify jurisdictions in the court system. this vote will touch upon enforcement of laws regarding patents, for example, and will make it easier for judicial systems to function properly. it is not a contentious vote that will clean up bureaucratic troubles.
in writing. - i agree with the main lines of the regulation proposed by the commission and i welcome some of the improvements made by the house. in addition, particular attention should be paid to the rules applicable to third-country defendants, who are not generally concerned by the rules of the brussels i regulation. i hope that the legislation will be adopted as soon as possible, since it does not generate controversy and is conditional on the entry into force of the agreement on the unified patent court.
in writing. - i did not intend to support the zdanoka report because i believe that asking for the organisation of a labour force sample survey in the eu will simply lead to an increase in administrative costs for the member states with no further benefits. the problems of the labour market in the member states and in italy are well known, it is time for the commission to put in place concrete and effective measures instead of wasting time and money on further studies and investigations.
in writing. - reliable sources of statistical information are needed to achieve the ambitious objectives of the europe 2020 strategy and to aim for full employment and social progress. to monitor progress towards the achievement of the union's policy objectives, comparable statistics on the situation of employed persons, the unemployed and persons outside the labour market are needed. i therefore voted in favour of the report on the labour force sample survey. i would, however, like to see a data policy that guarantees confidentiality and protection of personal data.
in writing. - i did not intend to support the taylor report on the european maritime safety agency with my vote, since both italy and other member states have already signed specific agreements providing for joint action to deal with threats such as those dealt with in the report, and i therefore do not think it appropriate to allocate additional financial resources to this community agency.
in writing. - the european maritime safety agency has tasks in the field of action against marine pollution. to carry out its tasks efficiently and fully, it needs adequate financial security, and the commission intends to allocate an amount of eur 160,5 million to it for the period 2014-2020. i believe that the work of prevention and preparation of pollution control by this agency brings not only economic benefits but also non-monetary added value. in view of the devastating ecological consequences and the enormous economic costs associated with possible accidents and the socioeconomic impact on other sectors such as tourism and fisheries, i believe it is essential to make adequate investments in the agency. i therefore agree with the rapporteur that the funding the commission proposes for the agency should be increased.
in writing. - the commission's approach is inconsistent in that it entrusts the agency with new tasks, which it will not be able to carry out fully, as the budget for the next seven years will not change, thus reducing the agency's possibilities of action in relation to the extent of its responsibilities. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'customs' in the definition of the concept of 'commercial'.
in writing. - smes and microenterprises employ 90 million people in the eu's private sector. we must take into account that 85% of all new jobs in the last ten years have been created by smes, and we must therefore ensure that the needs of smes are at the heart of the decision-making process. companies can only create jobs and hire more workers if the market allows it. i am particularly keen to support innovative initiatives to support entrepreneurs, such as the create programme, erasmus for young entrepreneurs and the entrepreneurship 2020 strategy. we must ensure that any regulation or proposal is able to create jobs and not impose disproportionate or unreasonable burdens on businesses.
in writing. - unemployment is the main social challenge facing europe. in july 2013, the unemployment rate in the european union stood at 11%, but in some member states it exceeded 20%. small and mediumsized enterprises employ 90 million people in the private sector in the union and i believe that there is enormous potential for job creation, growth and innovation in this area. in fact, considering that 85% of all new jobs have been created by smes over the last 10 years, it becomes a priority to ensure that the needs of smes are at the heart of the decision-making process. the union and in particular the member states must continue to play a key role in supporting enterprises by improving access to finance and promoting entrepreneurship. in this context, i welcome innovative initiatives to support entrepreneurs, such as the create programme, erasmus for young entrepreneurs and the entrepreneurship strategy 2020. finally, i agree with the rapporteur that enterprises, and in particular smes and micro-enterprises, must be equipped with the necessary know-how to access eu support through, for example, one-stop shops and web portals.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, which is generally positive because it calls on the european commission to create jobs and to reduce taxation and burdens on small and mediumsized enterprises.
in writing. - unemployment is the main social challenge facing europe today and businesses, including smes and start-ups, can play a key role in combating it. however, they can only create jobs if the market allows it, if they can rely on a skilled workforce and if labour markets are sufficiently flexible. the creation of innovative initiatives to support entrepreneurs, such as the create programme, erasmus for young entrepreneurs and the entrepreneurship 2020 strategy, is an essential element in reducing unemployment rates.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this text which analyses the introduction of new technologies and teaching techniques in eu education.
in writing. - i shall vote in favour of the motion for a resolution by the european parliament on new technologies and open educational resources. the modernisation of education and training systems is a priority on the european agenda. the europe 2020 strategy recognises the importance of this dimension and includes this objective among the measures to be taken to foster smart growth in the union. in particular, it is essential to exploit the innovative potential of the digital sector by integrating new information and communication technologies into the current teaching method. this is why the use of open educational resources (oer) should be encouraged. the gdr plays a strategic role in terms of access to information, ease of learning and diversity and equity in education. the digital knowledge and skills acquired through the integration of the gdr into the field of education will also enable young people to develop skills essential in the labour market. it is therefore necessary to invest in appropriate teaching facilities and to increase broadband access. for these reasons, i consider this motion for a resolution to be essential if the european union's education and training institutions are to become more efficient and more advanced.
in writing. - the commission has identified a number of challenges in the three areas of innovation in education and training institutions, the use of open educational resources and the availability of ict infrastructure and equipment. providing quality education to young people is an increasing challenge for national authorities, due to the heterogeneity of the digital infrastructure and the poor digital skills of the workforce. yet the increased use of digital technologies is creating opportunities for teaching and learning in innovative ways for education and training institutions, teachers, students and pupils, and educational institutions should therefore allocate some of their resources to meeting their specific needs in this area.
in writing. - the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites) aims to ensure that international trade in wild animals and plants does not threaten their survival. council regulation (ec) no 338/97 regulates the protection of species of wild fauna and flora by controlling trade in them. it lays down rules for the import, export and re-export and intra-eu trade of specimens of the species listed in its four annexes. i voted in favour of the recasting of regulation (ec) no 338/97 to update the proposal in the framework of the lisbon treaty and to replace the old and obsolete provisions with new ones, in particular as regards the rules on comitology.
in writing. - today in strasbourg we adopted an important regulation for the protection of wild animals and plants. the aim is to preserve the survival of these specimens by controlling their commercialisation. this trade, the one we are considering, reaches a turnover of some 2 billion euros a year in italy alone and almost 100 billion euros in europe. the most important aspect of this decision is its concrete nature, because it is not the usual battle against trade in protected species, but rather a set of rules aimed at regulating their import, export and re-export, thus supporting a significant trade in the name of legality and fairness.
in writing. - the amendments to the regulation are all motivated by the need to update the proposal in the framework of the lisbon treaty, in order to replace the old provisions with new rules.
in writing. - the republic of seychelles comprises 115 islands in the indian ocean. the landmass covers an area of about 455 km2 and its coastline reaches about 500 km in length. the seychelles have a population of about 90,000, about 80 percent of whom live on the largest island, mahé. here is the capital city, victoria, with a population of about 30,000. the economy of seychelles is based mainly on fishing and tourism. i voted against the proposal because the budget figure of eur 5 million per year for five years seems disproportionate to the relatively small number of italian fleets compared to those of spain and france.
in writing. - i support the report because the new protocol to the eu-seychelles app will last for six years and will provide fishing opportunities for 40 tuna seiners and 6 surface longliners, for an overall financial contribution of eur 30.7 million, intended as a payment for access to the eez and in support of the seychelles' fisheries sector policy.
in writing. - i abstained from voting on the text proposing an agreement which, at an annual cost of 600 000 euros, has almost no positive impact on our economic system.
in writing. - the app with the comoros has created 100 jobs overall, although none for the comoros, but still provides a gross value added for the comoros of about eur 215 000 per year. i think that the protocol is generally consistent, efficient and sustainable, and i therefore support it without any particular amendments or modifications.
in writing. - i abstained from voting on this agreement which is too general and unclear in many of its objectives.
in writing. - the fisheries partnership agreement between the european community and madagascar allows european fishing vessels to fish in madagascar's waters and is part of the series of tuna fisheries agreements concluded with the countries of the indian ocean, allowing european fishing vessels to exploit the fishery resources of the area. the partnership agreement is generally fairly balanced and i have no particular objections to it.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this agreement which aims to strengthen the eu-republic of korea partnership. the readmission clause, as provided for in article 33 (2), is a fundamental part of the new framework agreement. by agreeing to readmit their nationals illegally staying in the territory of the other party and by agreeing to provide such nationals with appropriate identity documents for this purpose, the two parties shall strengthen and intensify their mutual cooperation in preventing and controlling illegal immigration.
in writing. - the new framework agreement between the european union and the republic of korea will strengthen and deepen the close relations between the two parties. in this sense, the readmission clause is a key point of the new framework agreement, which provides for the readmission of their respective nationals in an irregular situation in the territory of the other party and their agreement to provide such nationals with identity documents. i support the agreement because i think it is fair enough and will ensure honest and clear cooperation between the two parties, while strengthening their already strong relations.
in writing. - the republic of korea is one of the european union's most important partners in asia. the european union and its member states, on the one hand, and the republic of korea, on the other, both have close relations not only for economic reasons but also by appealing to common values such as democracy, human rights and the rule of law. i voted in favour of this new agreement which will further promote cooperation in terms of responding to global challenges, in which both korea and the eu play an increasingly important role, for example in the g20.
in writing. - in general, i am quite satisfied with the agreement reached and the good relations that have now been established between the republic of korea and the eu. the agreement is based on shared principles of equality, mutual respect and mutual benefit, as well as on the eu's founding values of respect for democracy, the rule of law and human rights. the chapter on cyber threats and the development of a secure cyberspace is of particular relevance, also in the light of the cybersecurity strategy developed by the european institutions in recent months.
in writing. - on 24 september 2012, the council authorised the commission to open negotiations, on behalf of the european union and its member states and the republic of croatia, with montenegro in order to conclude a protocol to the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of montenegro, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union. i voted in favour of this protocol.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this text because it reinforces the participation of georgia to certain union programmers. in addition, i believe this protocol offers an opportunity to further promote cultural, educational, environmental, technical and scientific links between the eu and georgia by enhancing people-to-people contacts and sectorial cooperation.
in writing. - the partnership and cooperation agreement (pca) between georgia and the european communities entered into force on 1 july 1999. georgia has been actively participating in the european neighbourhood policy since 2004 and in the eastern partnership since its launch in 2009. georgia shall contribute financially to the specific programmes in which it participates. the financial implications vary from programme to programme and are set out in the memoranda of understanding. i voted in favour of this protocol which will allow the gradual opening up of certain union programmes to georgia, offering the possibility of further promoting relations in the cultural, educational, environmental, technical and scientific fields and strengthening contacts between citizens and sectoral cooperation, as well as consolidating political relations through the eastern partnership and the conclusion of the association agreement.
in writing. - i support the report because the main objective of this agreement is to establish the technical and financial rules to enable georgia to participate in certain union programmes in order to strengthen the link between the eu and the caucasian country, all the more so because this facilitation is part of the joint response of the commission and the high representative for the common foreign and security policy entitled 'a new response to a changing neighbourhood'.
in writing. - on the basis of the report contained in the commission proposal, council decision 2009/831/ec authorised portugal to apply until 31 december 2013 a reduction in the excise duty rates on rum and liqueurs produced and consumed in the outermost regions of madeira and the azores, and on liqueurs and liqueur wines produced and consumed locally, due to the small surface area, the discontinuous nature and the low level of automation of farms, respectively, and to compensate for the additional costs of transporting raw materials and installing equipment in these remote island regions. i voted in favour of renewing this authorisation until 31 december 2020 in order not to jeopardise the development of these outermost regions, provided that this reduction does not distort competition in the internal market.
in writing. - portugal's request to extend the period of reduction of the excise duty on alcohol is justified by the need not to jeopardise the development of these outermost regions, without creating distortions of competition in the internal market, considering that the tax relief is limited to the amount necessary to compensate for the additional costs, which is why the proposal should be approved.
in writing. - council decision 2002/546/ec of 20 june 2002 authorises spain to apply until 30 june 2014 exemptions or reductions from the tax known as 'arbitrio sobre importaciones y entregas de mercancías en las islas canarias' (hereinafter 'aiem') for a number of local products manufactured in the canary islands, in order to improve competitiveness and compensate for the additional production costs due to isolation, dependence on raw materials and energy, the obligation to stockpile, the small size of the local market and the underdeveloped export activity. on 4 march 2013, spain requested the commission to prepare a council decision authorising it to apply exemptions from, or reductions in, the aiem tax for the period 2014-2020 to certain local products manufactured in the canary islands. i voted in favour of this measure, which seems proportionate and does not compromise the integrity and consistency of the union's legal order.
in writing. - portugal's request to extend the period of reduction of the excise duty on alcohol is justified by the need not to jeopardise the development of these outermost regions, without creating distortions of competition in the internal market, considering that the tax relief is limited to the amount necessary to compensate for the additional costs, which is why the proposal should be approved.
in writing. - considering that failure to adopt any proposal before that date would risk creating a legal vacuum in that it would prohibit the application of any differentiated taxation in the french outermost regions, i voted in favour of extending decision 2004/162/ec for a further period of six months in order to allow the commission to complete its examination and present a balanced proposal which takes account of the different interests at stake.
in writing. - france has obtained a series of exemptions or reductions in the 'maritime' tax on certain products manufactured in the french outermost regions in order to improve competitiveness and compensate for the additional costs of production, a justifiable measure aimed at not undermining the development of these regions and which should therefore be approved.
in writing. - i did not intend to vote in favour of the gurmai report because the limits on quantity and quality will not allow members and citizens to obtain the information they require.
in writing. - the proposed amendment is consistent with the decision previously taken by the conference of presidents on the choice of members to put questions by the method of call for attention, on questions which are not put in writing in advance and on the guidelines for checking the admissibility of questions, supplementary questions and deadlines, and has been adapted to the new system of drawing lots. i think the motion should be adopted.
in writing. - the martin report is acceptable and does not present any particular criticisms, so i voted in favour of it.
in writing. - the possibility for other committees of the european parliament to express their views on international agreements is of fundamental importance, as these agreements often concern technical matters which can be better dealt with in other committees than the foreign affairs committee, which is currently the only one that can express its opinion. the afco committee, parliament's legal service and the court of justice have supported the amendment of article 90, which governs this aspect of international agreements, and therefore the report must be approved.
in writing. - i agree with the amendment to the european parliament's rules of procedure which provides for the possibility of signing and distributing documents of this institution in electronic format, which will greatly reduce the current bureaucratic procedures and internal costs, and i therefore voted in favour of the text.
in writing. - i supported the report because it provides for a number of amendments to the ep's rules of procedure with a view to the introduction of electronic signatures in the european parliament. the amendments to the rules of procedure provide for the possibility of preparing, signing and distributing parliament's documents in electronic form.
in writing. - i believe that this measure is necessary and will bring the european parliament into line with the times. we are in an era where much of our work is done digitally and i therefore think it is sensible for our institution to adapt by providing that documents can be prepared, signed and distributed in electronic form. i have always found it a waste of time and money to find huge piles of paper distributed at every commission meeting: with the technological means at our disposal, it should be easy to be able to view everything in electronic form. in times of spending review this is also a signal, perhaps a little late, because it could have been started already with the current legislature. in any case, from next july we will have a european parliament that spends less and is also more environmentally friendly: it is useless and paradoxical to prepare resolutions on waste and environmental damage when you are the first to fail to act on what you say.
in writing. - the report analyses a number of technical adjustments to the budget structure that are necessary to ensure the proper implementation of the 2014 budget in relation to the most recent legislative decisions, and highlights the need to facilitate access to finance, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises, as a matter of urgency; i therefore intend to vote in favour of the text.
in writing. - i congratulate my colleague, mr marco scurria, rapporteur for the resolution on european capitals of culture, which was adopted in this house today. fortunately, this initiative, which has seen a european city named european capital of culture since 1985, will continue until 2033. this is good news for italy, as it is proven that the appointment generates a huge leverage effect with increased public and private investment. the agreement reached represents a realistic and balanced compromise, including the rationalisation of the selection procedure, the sustainability of infrastructure investments, access to additional sources of eu funding, the possibility for a city to submit proposals of a regional nature and, finally, the recognition of the important role played by the member state hosting the capital.
in writing. - i support the agreement reached because it is a realistic and balanced compromise, which provides for a rationalisation of the selection procedure, the sustainability of infrastructure investments, access to additional sources of eu funding and the possibility for a city to submit proposals of a regional nature, recognising inter alia the role played by the member state hosting the capital, while preserving the european character of the initiative.
in writing. - i certainly welcome the resolution in question, which is an appeal for the european union to establish as soon as possible a coherent legislative framework to ensure a strict regime for the protection of cetaceans from all threats arising from incidental catching. the current regulation (ec) no 812/2004 has serious shortcomings: the commission has not succeeded in curbing the mortality rate of cetaceans, but on the contrary it is rising sharply, making bycatch one of the most dangerous aspects of the environmental impact of modern commercial fishing. protecting the biodiversity of our marine ecosystems by regulating destructive commercial fishing practices allows us to offer socioeconomic development opportunities linked not only to sustainable fishing but also to nature tourism, which has been statistically steadily increasing over the last decade across europe: biodiversity is, in fact, one of the major vehicles of tourism today. in this context, consider the extraordinary example of the 'whale sanctuary', a triangle of sea between three countries, a rare case in europe of a transfrontier protected area which attracts thousands of tourists every year, and which is now threatened by the dramatic increase in the rate of whale mortality due to accidental catching.
in writing. - some important elements of the compromise reached make it particularly appropriate and effective, and it will give the commission the power to adopt delegated acts to update the technical specifications and the methods of use of noise deterrents. the compromise is very balanced and geared to the specific objective pursued, which is why i think it should be supported.
in writing. - in order to prevent eastern european companies posted to italy from acting outside the rules of our market in ways which fully fall within the definition of 'unfair competition', it is necessary to maintain the high powers of the national labour inspectorates; i do not think that the text under voting is going in the opposite direction.
in writing. - posting of workers plays a key role in the crossborder provision of services and in the development of the internal market and leads to the creation of a category of workers in need of specific protection. the directive governing such secondment needs to be clarified and improved, precisely in order to ensure the effective protection of these rights. i particularly appreciate the fact that the need to ensure access to information on the applicable rules on working conditions has been emphasized. i also think that, in order to ensure greater clarity, it is important to focus attention on the need to create a set of uniform measures applicable at european level and to strengthen cooperation between the member states.
in writing. - i support this proposal as it empowers the union to take steps to protect cultural national treasures, in the context of the opening-up of the union’s internal borders. this acknowledges the need to provide cultural objects special protection in the light of the rules governing the internal market. in addition this proposal aims to improve cooperation between the national authorities responsible for matters related to the return of cultural objects. for this reason it is proposing that authorities should make use of a new eu administrative cooperation instrument: the internal market information system (imi). the imi is an electronic tool designed to improve communication and cooperation between the authorities of the member states in the context of the implementation of internal market legislation. that will make it possible to share information about national treasures and stolen cultural objects, it will provide secure internet access, and will be used in all the eu official languages.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report which calls for improved cooperation and exchange of information between the member states in order to achieve better protection of europe's cultural heritage.
in writing. - i share both the report and the philosophy behind it and therefore i vote in favour. i agree with the comments on the problems of declarations and the limitations resulting from the recasting procedure. the difficulties encountered in practical application are explained by the reasons summarized by the rapporteur: it is understandable that the states have adopted restrictive interpretations. it is also true that the culture of the single market has matured since 1993. i think that, given the circumstances, the balance points proposed by the rapporteur are acceptable. the imi system will be able to provide information on the operational effectiveness of the directive, without prejudice to the appropriate three-year period for medium-term verification. finally, i would point out that, although any art historian can argue that the theft of works of art is an ancient and well-established practice, in the contemporary world the trafficking of works of art is one of the privileged vehicles of criminal associations specialised in money laundering activities. a more effective application of the directive therefore expresses values beyond the preservation of works of national interest.
in writing. - the aim of increasing the quantity of cultural goods classified as national heritage returned is very welcome and the commission's proposal is therefore welcome, also because it aims to approximate the legislation of the member states as regards the conditions for compensation of the owner of the property to be returned, by imposing the burden of proof on the owner, and no longer by referring the matter to the legislation of the member states. i agree with the rapporteur's approach that restitution cannot be seen as merely the free movement of goods, but also as the protection of cultural heritage.
in writing. - the text contains a number of criticisms which have not been examined in depth. that's why i decided to abstain.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the auken report on the amendment of the packaging directive which contains important provisions for reducing the consumption of plastic bags in europe. the consequences of plastic bag pollution are plain to see, and one fact alone illustrates the extent of the environmental damage: in 2010, over 8 billion plastic bags became waste, with serious impacts on protected areas, fragile ecosystems and marine ecosystems. i welcome the european commission's proposal and the compromise amendments adopted last month by the committee on the environment. on the basis of this directive, italy, which is now at the forefront of europe in the production of biodegradable and compostable plastic bags, will be able to maintain this virtuous system, thus cancelling an unjust infringement procedure which the eu had initiated against our country. it will thus be possible to demonstrate to the whole of the european union how it is possible to combine development, research and entrepreneurship in a balanced way with the principles of respect for the environment and of reducing pollution and to find a virtuous way to reduce and recycle waste and plastic.
in writing. - i vote in favour of the report, with an underlining and a caveat. i would stress the important principle that member states can go beyond the objectives set out in the directive by means of disincentive measures. the case of italy is illuminating: a series of measures since 2011 has resulted in a 50 percent reduction in the use of traditional single-use bags (including through the encouraged spread of reusable shopper bags), an increase in organic recycling rates of plastic waste, an improvement in the quality of the organic fraction through less plastic contamination. measures which have at the same time produced effects of environmental awareness, concretely reduced the impact of pollution (especially of the coasts), encouraged the growth of new markets for bioindustries. in this respect, my caveat can be translated into an invitation to the rapporteur to reconsider, in the light of the italian case, the multiple economic opportunities and environmental values of a greater spread of biodegradable and compostable plastics. i see no risk of perpetuating a consumerist mindset from the 1960s production system. on the contrary, i see clear potential on the side of environmental awareness in the direction of circular economies that emphasize sustainability values and can be a driver of innovation and economic and cultural growth.
in writing. - the proposal aims to reduce the consumption of plastic bags with a thickness of less than 50 microns (0.05 millimetres) in the european union. 50% by 2017 and 80% in subsequent years. the proposed thickness to define lightweight bags is 50 microns and this thickness distinguishes them from reusable bags. this dossier is of particular relevance for italy: the commission has therefore decided to suspend the infringement procedure still open in respect of the ban on the use of non-biodegradable plastic bags which has already been adopted. the negotiations were complicated by the strong pressure from germany and a delicate compromise was reached. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected, and that the environment is protected in a way that is compatible with the common market. the italian system is a point of excellence in europe because, following the european standard en 13432, it requires the use of biodegradable and compostable bags. today's vote guarantees italy to maintain the biodegradable bags and the collection system and at the same time guarantees member states who want to maintain similar systems.
in writing. - the european reduction target for plastic bags is a feasible objective and deserves the approval of the institutions. the call for the practice of plastic bags and the positive results it has produced is particularly relevant and i agree that it can be extended to the european level, even if the exception is made for bags which are necessary for food hygiene. i also support the fact that biodegradable and compostable plastic materials cannot be presented as a solution to the environmental problem of plastic bags, as they do not represent a solution to waste generation and the use of biodegradable and compostable plastics does not change the mindset of use and throw away. finally, i also support the idea of an approach that allows member states to go beyond the common eu reduction targets.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in the first three months of 2014, in just 100 days, 20,000 migrants landed in italy. do you know how much humanitarian emergency costs? it costs italy 300 000 euros a day, more than 9 million euros a month. if the trend continues, italy is likely to spend €110 million this year on border control and rescue operations, while frontex, the european agency, spends €34 million a year on administrative and bureaucratic costs. does that seem fair? and i am putting a pitiful veil over the fact that frontex's headquarters are in warsaw, 2,000 miles from lampedusa, where the sea wagons arrive almost every day. i have been to lampedusa, i am a red cross volunteer and i am proud of italy, which has always done its duty in an excellent way, saving so many lives and for this i thank the police and the humanitarian workers, but it is time to say enough. immigration is not just italy's problem. we are asking for an operational headquarters, an operational base of frontex in italy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the question of rejections cannot be based solely on the legal nonsense of the court of human rights, but on reality, on landings when they become an invasion, an emergency. other principles must therefore be applied to protect the countries that are invaded. the presidency will allow me to make another desperate appeal from the families of the more than 20 venetian and lombard independence fighters who are in prison for crimes of opinion. it is a shame that there is now an international committee, including members of the european parliament, which is asking the european parliament and its president to move, to visit them, to verify this situation of violation of a fundamental principle of freedom against uncensored people, decent people, in the middle of europe, who are in prison or under house arrest for crimes of opinion, for having raised the flag of freedom of the most serene republic of venice.
in writing. - i am in favour of this report because it aims to ensure the efficient monitoring of the crossing of external borders. it is fundamental to set strict rules for the search and rescue operations and on the identification of migrants intercepted at sea in order to enable frontex to respond more effectively and to prevent deaths at sea. the “operational plan” governing frontex-coordinated border surveillance operations must henceforth include procedures to ensure that persons needing international protection, victims of trafficking in human beings, unaccompanied minors and other vulnerable persons are identified and given appropriate help. furthermore, through the sea operation, the participating units will address the special needs of children, victims of trafficking, persons in need of urgent medical assistance, disabled persons, persons in need of international protection and other persons in a particularly vulnerable situation throughout the sea operation.
in writing. - with this report the eu continues to pursue the policy of 'non-refoulement' by increasingly decreeing the failure of the union's migration policies which leave the mediterranean states and in particular italy alone to deal with the migratory flows coming mainly from africa. once again europe is showing itself ready to impose ever more burdens on the member states, but it is not lending a hand to help us deal with these emergencies. for these reasons i voted against this text.
in writing. - i am pleased to note that the commitments made in the wake of the massacre in lampedusa are being concretely and consistently implemented in formal acts and legal instruments which can provide adequate means of prevention in the spirit of european solidarity. i therefore vote in favour. the codification into precise operational protocols solves a year-long problem, with implications of a legal, constitutional, humanitarian, but also logistical, operational and security nature. it seems to me that, without prejudice to the inviolability of the right to rescue, operational forecasts, with precise case studies and well-defined sets of conditions, make it possible to deal with the threat of further humanitarian emergencies in a climate of greater legal certainty, especially for personnel involved in the police activities of the external maritime border. it should be noted that these people are the most exposed to the unforeseeable consequences of regulatory uncertainty, with paradoxical cases of criminal proceedings opened ex officio against members of the police, not to mention the necessary protection in situations which necessarily preclude, because of their strong human impact, calm assessments of individual incidents and positions.
in writing. - i voted against this report on joint frontex missions because i do not think it is appropriate to the present situation. the maritime operations for the surveillance of the external borders coordinated by the agency should provide support to the most exposed and most pressured member states. unfortunately, however, the responsibility for receiving migrants lies entirely with the member states of arrival. i see no proposals for solidarity between member states, nor any new ideas on the question of the redistribution of the thousands of people who land on the shores of mediterranean countries between the eu member states. in particular, we must remember the emergency on the italian coasts, which, given their geographical position, are the natural gateway to europe. the european union is once again proving to be distant, to fail to understand the real needs, concerns and problems of its citizens.
in writing. - this report rightly emphasizes many points which are factual: in the last decade, a series of geopolitical and economic developments of regional and international significance have led to strong political instability in several areas and contributed to increased migratory flows from the southern shores of the mediterranean to the northern shores and to a greater strain on the asylum system, particularly in the southern member states located on the geographical periphery of the eu, such as italy. this phenomenon has therefore affected a small number of countries, but has been forced to suffer a massive impact, unlike anything seen in the recent past. the union should have a common policy on immigration and asylum, and this is also enshrined in the treaties: the reality was very different, however, and we have all seen how our european 'partners' have quietly turned their backs on us in recent years, leaving us to deal with the emergency alone. the work of frontex has been completely unsatisfactory, demonstrating the complete uselessness of these european agencies: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. - the need to protect our borders and to have an efficient system of maritime border surveillance must not be to the detriment of the fundamental rights of migrants arriving on european shores, but it is essential to ensure that there is real solidarity at european level in the application of systems of surveillance and also of reception of migrants. a single member state may not have the resources to manage the large migratory flows, especially those from the southern mediterranean. this is why cooperation and the sharing of responsibilities between the various european countries must be increased, for example in the context of the development of the common european asylum system and the gradual establishment of an integrated management system for external borders.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the zalewski report which establishes a framework of more balanced rules on the management of investor-state disputes, although there is still much work to be done in this area, the text voted on represents an improvement on the regulatory situation before it.
in writing. - i support this report, because i believe in the importance of improvement of transparency and predictability of anti-dumping and anti-subsidy investigations. the parties affected by the imposition of provisional anti-dumping and countervailing measures, in particular, importers should be made aware of the imposition of such measures. this proposal aims at modernising both the anti-dumping and anti-subsidy regulations, entails four central changes: the removal of the lesser duty rule in anti-dumping cases where structural raw material distortions are present and in all anti-subsidy cases, the obligation for union producers to cooperate in ex-officio investigations, the reimbursement of duties collected during expiry reviews, and the two weeks' notice before provisional duties are introduced, commonly referred to as the shipping clause. the commission’s rationale is based on three objectives: to increase the effectiveness of the instruments, to reduce the threat of retaliation from third country, and to increase transparency and predictability.
in writing. - the report sees our commercial interests, in relation to imports which are subject to dumping and subsidies by non-eu countries, well defended by the amendments made to the text under vote, which is why i wanted to support it.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal because it seeks to strengthen the anti-dumping and anti-subsidy instrument by striking a difficult balance between the interests of producers and importers. the proposal provides for increased support for small and mediumsized enterprises affected by dumping from third countries and more vigorous anti-dumping measures, in particular against social and environmental dumping and against dumping of subsidised products. access to eu anti-dumping measures will be simplified for small and medium-sized enterprises, in particular by creating a helpdesk to help them gather the economic injury verification details needed to launch an anti-dumping investigation.
in writing. - the proposal which this parliament has adopted is much better than the one originally put forward by the european commission, which is too preoccupied with the usual interests of the northern european countries. the text voted by the committee on international trade, which was approved today by the plenary in strasbourg, is much more balanced and rightly emphasizes certain points which are indispensable for us to create effective barriers to protect ourselves against unfair competition, particularly from asia. i would, of course, be for far more drastic measures, because it is not acceptable that our competitors should use tariffs and subsidies to defend their products at will, while we simply sit by and suffer. europe should use the same measures if it is to compete in the global market, because otherwise our goods and production can never be competitive when compared to markets where labour costs are infinitely lower. we must act quickly, because we risk being already out of time, with the real danger of continuing a tragic negative trend leading to the closure or relocation of businesses, which brings with it a trail of unemployment and misery.
in writing. - i agree with the commission's proposal that effectiveness is essential to ensure that this instrument achieves its purpose and prevents the damage caused by dumping and illegal subsidies. i share the rapporteur's interest in transparency and predictability in the proposal, particularly with regard to the shipping clause and the timing of provisional duties, and the attention paid to the accessibility of information for interested parties and/or legal representatives. in general, however, the objectives pursued are shared and parliament has the possibility of further strengthening them in certain areas, such as those listed above.
in writing. - the giannakou report analysing the proposal for a regulation on the statute and financing of european political parties and european political foundations is acceptable and well thought out, and for these reasons i have voted in favour of it.
in writing. - the development of european political parties is essential to arouse public interest and to remedy the democratic deficit which the eu suffers from. the creation of a specific and uniform european legal status, in accordance with union law, for european political parties and their political foundations is not only desirable but also essential for achieving these objectives. i also agree with the idea of giving the european parliament the task of verifying the conditions and criteria for the registration of european political parties and european political foundations linked to them, involving the committee on constitutional affairs.
in writing. - i fully support the gräßle report which amends the regulation on the financing of european political parties, which will ensure full transparency and certainty of the rules.
in writing. - i support the creation of specific contributions as a new type of eu funding which, being specifically designed for european political parties, responds to their specific needs and characteristics, making important simplifications which will ensure greater flexibility as regards the deadlines for using eu funds and pre-financing. i also agree with the rapporteur's choice to take up some of the recommendations of the court of auditors in order to increase legal certainty and the responsibility of financial actors. finally, i share the rapporteur's view that the european political foundations should be given greater flexibility in their financial planning.
in writing. - the gräßle report is acceptable and balanced, and i therefore intend to support it with my vote.
in writing. - the proposal offers the opportunity to adopt a european approach to a mrv system covering both greenhouse gases and air pollutants generated by the maritime transport sector, creating a single approach that will allow the development of emission reduction policies for the maritime sector that are consistent and in line with global policies on climate, air pollution and human health protection. i particularly appreciate the balance struck by the rapporteur between the need to pursue these objectives and the need to limit the implementation costs and administrative burden for operators.
in writing. - i share the views expressed in the poc report which analyses the proposal for a regulation laying down provisions to prevent and control the introduction and spread of invasive alien species which cost member states some 12 billion a year. both on economic and biodiversity conservation issues, the eu needs to be increasingly present alongside its member states in this fight.
in writing. - well, today's directive which urges member states to act promptly by sharing information. there will be a list of the most dangerous species to focus attention on, an early warning system to control the phenomenon, with a focus on prevention to reduce the entry into the eu of invasive alien species. the problem of invasive alien species that get out of control has caused an estimated €12 billion in damage every year for the last 20 years because these species have a negative impact on the environment, human health and socioeconomic development. just a few examples: they can be vectors of diseases and cause health problems such as asthma, dermatitis and allergies, damage infrastructure, and cause losses in agriculture.
in writing. - in the european union, it is estimated that there are over 12 000 animal and plant species that were not originally found in their natural state. this number continues to increase because of the movement of people, increased trade and climate change. in about 10 to 15 percent of cases, these species can reproduce rapidly and uncontrollably, with serious economic and environmental consequences. the costs of this are enormous, amounting to some eur 12 billion a year in damages and lost production, not to mention the serious impact on our biodiversity. in september 2013, the european commission published a legislative proposal to prevent and manage the introduction and spread of invasive alien species, i.e. animals, plants, fungi or micro-organisms that may alter the terrestrial and aquatic environments of the european union. a european list of particularly dangerous species, which must be banned at community level, will be drawn up through concerted and coordinated action between the authorities of the various member states. the environment in which we live is a natural gift that we must defend and preserve from dangerous contamination from outside: this is also a battle to defend our civilization.
in writing. - the prevention and management of the introduction and spread of invasive alien species is a very important issue which requires a concrete and targeted approach by the eu. i believe that coherent and coordinated action across the eu will increase the effectiveness of action at union level, avoiding that action in one member state is frustrated by the inaction of another member state, but i do share some of the objections, such as the possibility of not limiting the list of species to only fifty entries and the rules on updating and defining invasive alien species. i also welcome the reference to species that are native to some parts of europe but invasive in others and that cooperation measures at union level can be useful in tackling this problem.
in writing. - i did not intend to vote in favour of the urutchev report on the technical implementation of the kyoto protocol to the united nations framework convention on climate change, because the measures required are too costly in relation to the results to be achieved.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this proposal because the fraud and related illegal activities affecting the union’s financial interests pose a serious problem to the detriment of the union budget and thereby the taxpayers. for this reason we call to the european institutions to ensure that public money is devoted to structural growth, fiscal consolidation and jobs. there are differences among the member states legal and sanctioning systems. this fragmented legal framework creates incentives, for the potential perpetrators, to move across the european territory to the most favourable judicial system. i believe we should respond with a unique voice to fraud and any other activities affecting the financial interests of the union through deterrent measures. i consider this proposal for a directive on the fight against fraud to the union's financial interest also as an important step in the field of eu criminal law. this area has been significantly enhanced since the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, and should be used to the fullest extent.
in writing. - i did not intend to support the report analysing the proposal for a directive on 'combating fraud affecting the financial interests of the union by means of criminal law', because i believe that as such it implies excessive and disproportionate interference in national criminal systems.
in writing. - i welcome the commission's proposal to combat fraud affecting the union's financial interests by means of criminal law, which is a serious problem and has an impact on the union's budget and on the european taxpayer. i support some of the rapporteurs' proposals, in particular on a more precise definition of fraud affecting the union budget or provisions facilitating the approximation of countermeasures for fraudulent activities relating to access to eu public procurement, including activities that nullify or distort natural competition between participants in procurement.
in writing. - i fully support this report which finally asks for detailed information on the way in which president schulz has kept his administrative management separate from his campaign as the socialist and democratic candidate for the european elections, with specific reference to the staff of his cabinet and the parliament's external offices and travel costs. the rapporteur believes that for many of these activities no distinction has been made between the two roles and he formally calls for a clear separation of the functions of public office holders on the commission's model, to avoid the union's taxpayers having to pay for the electoral campaigns of european capitalist candidates.
in writing. - the commission's proposal to revise directive 96/53/ec on vehicle weights and dimensions is intended to remove the constraints which hinder the development of more efficient, more aerodynamic and safer vehicles. i believe that the amendments adopted today by the european parliament will bring many important benefits to the internal road transport market: the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules. this proposal will make road transport safer and cleaner.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, with the council's agreement, all the imbalances we have suffered so far, with the various reductions and corrections, starting with the one for the united kingdom, which has cost us hundreds of millions of euros over the years, are still in place. the champions of european austerity policies will continue to rub their hands together with the various rebates for germany, the netherlands, austria, sweden and denmark. in practice, the healthier countries pay less to finance the union: it's a paradox. if a financing mechanism is decided upon, clear rules should be established which apply to all and which cannot be changed according to the political weight of the states. this does not mean that i am in favour of an increase in the union's own resources, especially if it is to be handled by our former president of the council, mario monti, who is very much loved in europe. but you may not know the damage he has managed to do in recent months, raising taxes and causing a social butchery the "exodati" case is a shameful example in italy. if this is the future of europe, i see neither good premises nor good prospects.
mr president, i will be brief. the procedure did not allow for amendments to be made to this report. at the trilogue stage there was a major clash between parliament, the commission and the council on a subject concerning the publication of the beneficiaries of this fund. the commission and the council have essentially opposed this publication. today the commission is trying to remedy this by making a statement. we believe that this statement is insufficient and i personally hope that the next parliament, in the interests of transparency, will correct this measure which we are approving today.
in writing. - the treaty of lisbon has altered the institutional balance of the union and strengthened the political stature of parliament. in particular, with reference to the european parliament's power to set up committees of inquiry, the opportunity offered by this regulation to approve a procedure for setting up committees of inquiry with a clearer and more logical structure than the previous one is noted. this legal framework is appropriate to ensure that the political control exercised by the european parliament is serious, effective and in line with the expectations of european citizens in terms of democratic accountability and good governance.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this proposal because with this text we lay down provisions for the european parliament to set up temporary committees of inquiry to investigate alleged contraventions or maladministration in the implementation of community law. i consider it is of fundamental importance to guarantee inquiry committees the possibility to request documents, to summon witnesses, to hear officials and other servants of the union or of member states and to request experts’ reports when necessary to carry out investigations. however i believe that parliament should lead the way in ensuring that the inquiry committee remains independent. for this reason it should closely monitor the impartiality and discretion of the examination and assure transparency and accountability throughout the investigation process.
in writing. - the report is unclear and contradictory in many respects, which is why i did not vote in favour of it.
in writing. - the right of inquiry is an important aspect of the european parliament's powers of scrutiny. i agree with the report because it stresses that committees of inquiry must have the necessary instruments to carry out their task of examining cases of alleged breaches of union law or maladministration. for example, they should have access to all administrative or other documents and to any information which may facilitate their work and should be able to obtain such information from both union and national bodies and natural or legal persons. another aspect which i welcome is the improvement in the obligations for duly summoned witnesses and the related sanctions in case of violation.
in writing. - i voted against this report which proposes to include the parliaments of the eu member states among the european institutions.
in writing. - i voted for this report as the development of relations between european parliament and national parliaments is of essential importance. the resulting exchange of information is enabling the national parliaments to provide the ep with sounder evaluations and the ep to adopt decisions on the basis of broad consensus. this is ought to make it easier for european provisions to be transposed into national law rapidly and effectively by the national parliaments. another important aspect is the so-called 'european mainstreaming' within the national parliaments, where european awareness can be achieved much more effectively by the national parliaments than by the european parliament.
in writing. - the role of national parliaments in the construction of europe has been the subject of recurrent debate within the afco committee and at the numerous interparliamentary meetings. the report voted on today by the house is the culmination of a reflection which has been developed over the whole of the legislature and, although the subject has been dealt with authoritatively in three previous legislatures, it is the first to deal with it on the basis of the lisbon treaty and its experience. the report, which is based on a strict interpretation of the treaties, aims to look to the future of interparliamentary relations and to guide their development. the constant advance of the integration process requires deep foundations and solid foundations, which are built up by the creation of a genuine european consciousness. to this end, cooperation between the european parliament and national parliaments is essential, since the latter have a specific and special role in consolidating european consciousness within the member states and in bringing citizens closer to europe and in carrying out their own european tasks. they can therefore interpret their prerogatives in a constructive and not oppositional way, to give strength and impetus to the process of integration. in this sense, and without prejudice to the difference in roles, we can speak of a european parliamentary system.
in writing. - i do not share the views expressed in the report analysing the measures for implementing the european union's own resources system, and i did not intend to support it with my vote.
in writing. - i welcome the draft regulation, since it will make it possible for the first time to apply the provisions of the treaty of lisbon in relation to the regulation laying down implementing measures for the system of own resources.
in writing. - i did not intend to vote in favour of the dehane-jensen report analysing the eu's own resources system.
in writing. - the commission has proposed the abolition of the current value added tax (vat) resources and the creation of two genuine own resources, namely a new vat-based resource and an own resource based on the financial transaction tax (ftt), thus reducing the share of member states' gni-based contributions to a maximum of 40% of the total revenue of the union. i regret that the council has not paid due attention to the commission's proposals, particularly as regards the proposals concerning the two new own resources, which is why i supported the decision of the rapporteurs to propose a number of amendments to the council's draft to reaffirm parliament's position.
in writing. - i do not agree with the dehaene-jensen report, which is why i did not vote for it.
in writing. - i support this report in order to further elevate eu-japan relations through the timely conclusion of the negotiations of a comprehensive strategic partnership agreement. japan has been an eu strategic partner since 2003 and since has already cooperated in a number of fields such as customs cooperation and legal assistance in criminal matters, science and technology, internet security, academic and research cooperation, the peaceful use of nuclear energy, business community contacts and the promotion of people-to-people links. moreover, the further enhancement of eu-japan relations will aim at providing a long-standing framework for a closer relationship contributing considerably to the deepening of political, economic and cultural relations with tangible results for the citizens of both regions.
in writing. - as i find the report analysing the measures for implementing the eu's own resources system unclear on many points, i did not intend to support it with my vote.
in writing. - the role of public employment services is crucial, they offer support to jobseekers and employers by providing information, mediation and active support services. the need for better coordination of the economic and employment policies of the member states within the union goes hand in hand with the need for efficient public employment services, which intervene at the moment of the implementation of these policies. the fight against youth unemployment, the promotion of sustainable employment and the fight against social dumping require a transformation and improvement of public employment services, also with a view to achieving the objectives of the 'youth guarantee', which requires close cooperation between all the main stakeholders.
in writing. - the daerden report aims to increase cooperation between european employment agencies to facilitate the improvement of such services and geographical mobility for workers. i think that this legislation will undoubtedly provide some temporary relief from the symptoms of the crisis, but it does not provide any real remedies to combat the employment situation we are experiencing, which is why i abstained.
in writing. - the tasks and ways of operating public employment services have changed and the eu's task is to accompany and support this change. the commission's initiative to formalise an existing network of representatives of these public employment services for national employment is therefore in line with this eu duty, as it would facilitate the comparison of the effectiveness of the labour market measures to be implemented in the respective member states, in order to assess their strengths and weaknesses.
in writing. - i recognize the usefulness of the european union's solidarity fund, but i do not agree that it should also be used for the accession countries, such as turkey, which is why i abstained.
in writing. - the eu solidarity fund, with a maximum budget of €500 million per year for the period 2014-2020, is one of the most visible and effective examples of eu solidarity. it was set up in 2002 following the severe floods that hit central europe in the summer of that year. i have supported the reform of this fund because i believe it is necessary to make it an even more effective instrument. the amendments will make it easier and faster for the community to provide aid to eu and candidate countries affected by natural disasters. in particular, the extension of the deadline for requesting aid for natural disasters from 10 to 12 weeks and the payment of an advance of 10% of aid and the simplification of the criteria for approving aid will make the european solidarity fund more effective, faster and more visible.
in writing. - the solidarity fund, established in 2002 after the floods in eastern europe, was created to respond to natural disaster situations within the paradigm of solidarity towards fellow europeans. the vote today introduced various changes to the scope of the fund and will make receiving money easier and faster. furthermore, affected regions can receive funds before a disaster strikes, highlighting the focus on preparedness. this is an important symbol that is closely related to the functioning of the new union civil protection mechanism that i was honoured to be rapporteur for.
in writing. - the new legislative proposal simplifies the existing rules to allow aid to be disbursed more quickly, including the possibility of paying advances. unfortunately, it cannot be increased, because of the real reduction in the european budget, but it is a key instrument for the union's external action and must therefore be supported and used effectively and efficiently. the changes made will, however, make it possible to improve and simplify the current operation of this instrument, although it will not be able to respond to all citizens who need help.
in writing. - i agree with the rubial report which analyses the proposal for a decision on the eu's participation in the capital increase of the european investment fund which will also benefit small and mediumsized enterprises, which is why i voted in favour of the text.
in writing. - the commission proposal concerns funding for the implementation of the new eu pharmacovigilance regulation and directive adopted in 2012. the new legislation provides for new responsibilities both for the european medicines agency and for the national competent authorities (the national regulators for medicines) of the member states. it is important to establish a financing mechanism as soon as possible, especially since the legislation has already entered into force. a comprehensive review of pharmacovigilance fees is planned for next year, when it will be possible to propose a complete reorganisation of the whole system. i agree with the rapporteur that there is an urgent need to create a financing mechanism and i have therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - the new european medicines agency legislation includes interesting new features such as the extension of the eudravigilance database to nationally authorised products, the creation of a central repository of periodic safety update reports and a database of all products authorised in the eu, the monitoring of publications, the coordination of eu-wide assessments of periodic safety update reports, the creation of a european medicines portal and the organisation of public hearings. these new tasks could cost the commission up to eur 38,5 million to be financed through the two sources in question. the text reached during the debate responds to the need to create an adequate financing mechanism in a short time, which is why i believe it should be approved without further delay.
in writing. - i voted for this report as i believe we need to support the financial institutions of the republic of tunisia in order to sustain the population and strengthen their path onto democracy. thanks to the eu-tunisia association agreement, tunisia was the first mediterranean country to enter in a free trade area with the union. unfortunately tunisia's economy has been significantly affected by the "arab spring" and by the regional unrest that followed, particularly in neighbouring libya. these events and the weak global economic environment, in particular the recession in the euro area, tunisia's main trading and financial partner, has had a very negative impact on the tunisian economy, leading to a slowdown in growth and generating large external and budgetary financing gaps. for this reason i think that the union's macro-financial assistance will aim to support the restoration of a sustainable external financing situation of the country thereby supporting its economic and social development.
in writing. - i do not intend to support the report calling for a loan of eur 300 million for tunisia for macro-financial assistance.
in writing. - the report correctly mentions a number of important references: the european parliament has been a key player in the negotiations on the enp, the euro-mediterranean agreement, the important steps forward in the new constitutional charter under discussion at the 2011 elections. i am certainly voting in favour. i would like to take this as a corollary to the 2013 trade figures, which show the eu as the far-leading partner area, with a trade volume of about 20 times that of north america. i also call for consideration to be given to the advanced level of integration of the tunisian diaspora in the member states, which absorb almost all legal emigration. the commission has a variety of tools to verify the fulfilment of the conditions set out in paragraph 16 in terms of civil rights and financial sustainability in relation to the monitoring systems put in place by the imf. there is no need to elaborate on the strategic value of financial assistance at this particular time, which is already extensively discussed in the enp documents. tunisian society is a privileged laboratory for testing the effectiveness of european policies and the euro-mediterranean partnership, in the sense of sharing a common opinion on sound strategies for economic development, the spread of welfare and the growth of the middle class.
in writing. - i believe that this report fully reflects the considerations and principles set out by the european parliament and the council in the joint declaration adopted on 12 august 2013, which is why i believe that the text should be adopted without further delay.
in writing. - the commission proposal amends an article of regulation (ec) no 302/2009 concerning the current bluefin tuna stock recovery plan. the amendment, based on iccat recommendation 12-03, concerns the periods allowed and the periods when fishing is prohibited. i voted in favour of the report which calls for more precision on the types of fishing gear to be used in order to avoid unintended consequences at a later stage in the legislative process.
in writing. - our seas are being exploited beyond their reproductive capacity. the bluefin tuna stocks in our waters are becoming increasingly depleted and need careful management in order to continue to benefit from the food, economic and social contribution they provide. i believe that the adoption of this proposal is urgent and cannot be delayed, in view of the real risk, recognised by the international community, of the total extinction of bluefin tuna from the waters of the eastern atlantic and the mediterranean. i am voting in favour, hoping that the adoption of this report will encourage careful reflection on the general state of fisheries in our waters, which are badly affected by illegal and uncontrolled fishing practices, of which bluefin tuna is just one example that has been thrown into the headlines because of the economic interests that surround it. i hope that new marine protected areas and sanctuaries will be established to protect species which are vital to ecosystems such as bluefin tuna, in order to ensure that all the programmatic principles of the resolution in question are respected, allowing the repopulation of endangered species and promoting sustainable fishing against destructive practices.
in writing. - the commission proposal amends an article of regulation (ec) no 302/2009 concerning the current recovery plan for bluefin tuna in the eastern adriatic and the mediterranean. the commission's amendment concerns the periods allowed, the periods when fishing is prohibited and the gear used. i agree with the rapporteur that increasing the total allowable catch (tac) at this time would be absurd and economically counterproductive, as stocks are still well below levels capable of producing the maximum available yield. i also think that the regulation should specify which types of fishing gear are permitted throughout the year, in order to avoid confusion.
in writing. - the european union is a party to the international convention for the conservation of atlantic tunas of the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas. in 2012, the committee proposed an amendment to the convention, and specifically to the fishing seasons, in the form of periods of authorisation instead of prohibition. member states are free to set their own fishing capacity and to draw up their own control plans in the way they prefer. this will enable the recovery of bluefin tuna in both the eastern atlantic and the mediterranean to continue, also in accordance with the proposals put forward in the committee.
in writing. - the mcintyre report is well balanced and well thought out, and that is why i intend to support it with my vote.
in writing. - according to the european central bank, 184 000 counterfeit coins and 531 000 counterfeit euro banknotes were withdrawn from circulation in 2012. i believe it is right and practical for the member states to deal with the crime of forgery in the manner they consider most appropriate and that the primacy of territoriality in determining jurisdiction is guaranteed. i also believe that, given the economic disparities between the member states, the setting of harmonised minimum penalties is likely to have a divergent deterrent effect in the union and could therefore prove counterproductive.
in writing. - since the introduction of the euro in 2002, olaf estimates that counterfeiting of the common currency has caused damage of over eur 500 million; in 2012 alone, to name just one, 184000 counterfeit euro coins and 531000 counterfeit euro banknotes were withdrawn from circulation. the euro is the second most widely used international currency in the world, and this makes it particularly attractive to organised crime, which has been heavily involved in its massive counterfeiting. one of the things that struck me particularly in this report was that the 500 euro note is used by more than 90% of organised crime. this is a very large amount for a banknote, which is also very difficult to use in everyday life. perhaps the idea of abolishing it would not be wrong, as indeed it should be done with the 1 and 2 cent coins, whose production cost is much higher than their real value. these are further indicators that give us a clear idea of how the euro has been very poorly conceived.
in writing. - i support the report because it contains recommendations encouraging the member states to deal with the crime of counterfeiting in the way they see fit. the problem of counterfeiting is widespread in the eu: just think that in 2012 alone 184 000 coins and 531 000 counterfeit notes were withdrawn. a harmonised approach could be contrary to the principle of subsidiarity. moreover, given the economic disparities between member states, the setting of harmonised minimum penalties is likely to have divergent deterrent effects in the union and thus to be counterproductive.
in writing. honey is not a compound product. for this reason, it is expressly forbidden to add food ingredients, additives and any other substances to honey. it follows that pollen is not an ingredient of honey, as it is not intentionally added to honey, but is, on the contrary, a natural constituent. classifying pollen as an ingredient means first of all affecting the reputation and true identity of this all-natural product, with repercussions in economic and employment terms on the beekeeping sector: increased production costs due to additional testing requirements and labelling charges; the commission has therefore decided to initiate the procedure provided for in article 93 (2) of the treaty in respect of the aid scheme for the production of olive oil.
in writing. - the proposal will enable the commission to amend the technical specifications relating to the names, descriptions and definitions of the products listed in annex i and to the criteria for the composition of honey listed in annex ii to this directive. as the rapporteur considers that these are all essential elements of the directive and has therefore removed these references from the commission's proposal, i intend to support this text with my vote.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mrs girling's report on a particularly controversial subject, the honey directive. a subject that has been controversial since a debate on the constituent elements of honey was triggered by a ruling by the court of justice that the pollen in honey should be considered an artificially added ingredient and therefore regulated under the directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling of foodstuffs. however, it is clear that pollen enters the hive only through the activity of the bees and is therefore naturally present in the honey, regardless of whether or not the beekeeper extracts it by centrifugation. the text adopted therefore clearly states that pollen should be classified as a natural constituent of honey and treated as such, both for the sake of correct legislation on the subject and for greater clarity for producers. however, in line with the eu's policy of greater transparency for consumers, i believe that if the presence of gm pollen is found to be above the natural limits allowed, established by appropriate controls, this should be adequately highlighted on the product labelling.
in writing. - attempts to treat pollen as an ingredient rather than a natural component of honey have been repeatedly thwarted. this approach is scientifically flawed and would lead to problems which could lead to a sharp decline in italian honey consumption, with a strong impact on employment. the result achieved with the current wording of the directive, as proposed by the european commission, is therefore very good. the commission has also proposed that the eu should be able to provide the eu with a comprehensive list of the products it intends to import from third countries.
in writing. - i support the proposal to ensure that honey is also covered by a set of rules which define pollen as a natural component of honey rather than as an ingredient. the ingredient/constituent dilemma arose because of the labelling implications for each option. if pollen is still considered a 'constituent', the genetically modified pollen present would not need any labelling. this is because, according to the gmo rule, only the genetically modified content in quantities above 0.9% must be indicated on the label of the finished product. since natural pollen reaches a threshold of around 0.5% for each consignment of honey, it could never exceed the labelling threshold. i fully share the parliament's position on this issue, since it has decided to take a stand against gmos, in favour of quality agricultural products which are characteristic of the european market and of certain european regions in particular, promoting high quality standards, with an eye to the vast agricultural component of the european economy.
in writing. - i backed this proposal because i believe that the objectives of the european maritime fisheries fund are to boost innovation, help communities diversify their economies, finance projects that create new jobs and improve the quality of life along the european coast. in addition, in order to implement the common fishery policy, i consider it of fundamental importance to foster the maritime sectors by promoting social cohesion and inclusive territorial development of fisheries areas.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the cadec report analysing the changes to the emff, the fund which supports the actions envisaged by the recent reform of the common fisheries policy.
in writing. - the report is based on the following main points: overcapacity of the fleet; transferable fishing concessions and conversion; action plan for small-scale and coastal fisheries; social chapter of the emff; fleet renewal; temporary blocks and mutualisation fund; investment in ports; scientific advice and data collection; aid for storage; compensation for additional costs in the outermost regions; aquaculture; sustainable development of fishing areas; integrated maritime policy. i voted in favour of the proposal because the european maritime and fisheries fund will help fishermen to comply with the ban on discarding, improve safety, working conditions, port infrastructure and simplify data collection. this will help make eu fisheries more sustainable. the proposal provides for concrete measures to improve fisheries management, to eliminate overfishing and to control fleet capacity. a clause has also been introduced to allow fishermen under 40 with at least 5 years' experience in the sector to receive up to €75,000 if they buy a small coastal fishing boat between 5 and 30 years old.
in writing. - through the european maritime and fisheries fund (emff), the european union is making available eur 6.5 million for the period 2014-2020 to ensure the effective implementation of the common fisheries policy. i supported the introduction of the emff because it will support fishermen in the transition to sustainable fishing, help coastal communities diversify their economies, and finance projects that will create new jobs and improve the quality of life in europe's coastal regions. i think it is essential that the emff focuses on the vocational training of young people and their entry into the fisheries sector. to promote the creation of new jobs, the emff provides eur 40 000 for fishermen over 50 who hire a young person for at least two years to enable him to learn sustainable fishing methods.
in writing. - i agree with the report's emphasis on small-scale and coastal fishing, which is very different from deep-sea fishing and varies according to the different sea basins. it plays a very important role in the vitality of coastal areas and communities and therefore the emff should support their development and competitiveness. i also agree that the emff should include a social chapter to help vocational training and the entry of young people into the fishing industry for fishermen who own their own vessels and for fishermen who are employed. finally, i very much appreciate the theme of the renewal of the european fleet, so as to limit the impact both in terms of the marine environment and of greater safety.
in writing. - the eu's internal security needs are constantly evolving. this means increasing demands on police forces and increasing expectations on our citizens. the european police college (cepol) is a major agency in the field of 'justice and home affairs', which is concerned with the training of law enforcement officers and brings together national police officials from all over europe to encourage and improve crossborder cooperation in the field of crime prevention. it is therefore essential that cepol is fully independent, efficient and able to use the resources allocated in a manner that is appropriate to the needs and demands of european citizens.
in writing. - having regard to the increasing costs facing the eu and the protracted crisis period, whereas the council was specifically requested to allocate the european police college (cepol) and europol to the same premises in the hague, both to reduce costs and to facilitate their cooperation; finally, i note that the council ignored these requests without giving adequate explanations and chose hungary as the seat of cepol, and i did not intend to support this text with my vote.
in writing. - the eu's internal security needs are constantly evolving, with a consequent increasing demand for police and law enforcement officers. these forces should be equipped with the right and necessary skills to address these evolving needs and cepol has a crucial role to play in this regard. the compromise reached with the council is a balanced compromise which will allow cepol to operate more efficiently than in the past, which is why i support the approval of this dossier.
mr president, while we are here trying to find fault with the legal rules of this european law, which is really the result of the philosophical formulations of the courts of justice, there is a challenge that threatens the southern border of europe. according to sources of the italian interior minister himself, there are 600,000 unfortunates in the sub-equatorial zone of africa ready to invade europe, perhaps through the italian coasts. of course, the parliamentarians representing the parties, movements and nations of northern europe are less sensitive to this challenge, but we have the coasts invaded by the cartels of illegal immigrants by the mafia criminal organizations, which are never mentioned because the illegal immigrants are useful, they are a tool of these mafias. let 's be clear about this . we are not talking about the european parliament, we are talking about the european parliament, we are talking about the european parliament, we are talking about the european parliament, we are talking about the european parliament, we are talking about the european parliament, we are talking about the european parliament, we are talking about the european parliament, we are talking about the european parliament, we are talking about the european parliament, we are talking about the european parliament, we are talking about the european parliament, we are talking about the european parliament, we are talking about the european parliament, we are talking about the european parliament, we are talking about the european parliament, we are talking about the european parliament, we are talking about the european parliament, we are talking about the european parliament, we are talking about the european parliament, we are talking about the european parliament. but what are you going to reject when 600,000, maybe a million, people try to get to europe? we must do as the league says and as the most responsible movements say. in the next parliament many of us will be saying these things again, that europe's immigration policy is not worth a fig tree. you have not defended europe, this is your shame! traitors to europe! (the president cut off the speaker) (the speaker agrees to answer a question with a blue card (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a blue-card question. mr president, i did not insult the illegal immigrants, i spoke instead of the poor wretches for whom i feel sorry. but you see, when from certain pulpits, not only secular but also religious, we are told that we must welcome them, i ask them, for example to you: how many immigrants have you welcomed into your home? shame on you! you hypocrite! they invade europe and you cowards, vile europe, as oriana fallaci said, are letting them invade without saying anything! (the president cut off the speaker)
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with the criticisms typical of a free trade agreement, and as in other negotiations, certain aspects need to be clarified. first, the question of services and public procurement. i would like to see the agreement not be at the expense of access to generic medicines for the people of vietnam; we also expressly ask the commission that the agreement contain no rules on duty drawback but instead a clear rule of origin. but the biggest problem we have with vietnam - we have to say it clearly - is that it is a dictatorship, a good and beautiful dictatorship, with no freedom of expression, oppressed minorities, the buddhist church in difficulty, the persecuted christian population of the mountains, a single party that leaves little space for the expression of a civil society, bloggers for example who are persecuted. this is, in the final analysis, a more difficult negotiation than any other. we therefore ask the commission how it intends to deal with the issue of a human rights clause which is demanding and to provide for mechanisms for evaluation and possibly suspension of the agreement where our demands for guarantees of human rights are not respected. the opening up of our mutual markets must not be an end in itself, aimed at increasing trade, but an element of real progress for vietnam. in this respect, it is a very specific agreement and more delicate than others, such as those with india, malaysia or another dictatorship such as singapore. i think that the next parliament will be more demanding in this respect than ours.
on behalf of the efd group. i agree with the vote by roll call.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the protocol to the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of albania, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the draft agreement providing for the full participation of norway in the activities of the european asylum office, representation on the administrative board of the office and annual financial contributions to its budget in an amount calculated in relation to gdp and expressed as a percentage of the gdp of all the states participating in its work.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the draft agreement providing for the full participation of the principality of liechtenstein in the activities of the european asylum office, representation on the administrative board of the office and annual financial contributions to its budget in an amount calculated in relation to gdp and expressed as a percentage of the gdp of all the states participating in its work.
in writing. - the eu institutions agreed to encourage the development of appropriate multiannual financial instruments that act as catalysts for public and private investment in order to pursue the union's long-term strategic objectives rooted in the real economy. at the same time, parliament has recognised that cofinancing and the so-called innovative financial instruments will only be fully effective if the general legal and regulatory environment is conducive to their development. i supported the report which supports longterm investment funds as a means of financing the real economy.
in writing. - i voted against a text containing provisions to give the eu a strong influence over the extraction of natural gas and oil in favour of alternative energy sources.
in writing. - i would like to express my positive vote on the report by mrs meissner on the proposal for maritime spatial planning and integrated coastal management, aimed at promoting the sustainable growth of maritime and coastal activities in european waters and the rational use of resources. in this context, intensive and uncoordinated use of coastal and maritime areas can be a contradictory factor leading to a change in the existing balance. it is therefore of great importance that optimal planning of the maritime space, including at european level, be achieved with the full consent of the parties concerned, through the establishment of adequate infrastructure and an orderly management of human and economic activities, ensuring an ecosystem approach that ensures the protection of natural resources, through a synergistic action between economic competitiveness and environmental compatibility. there are practices which may at first appear harmless and economically incentive, such as aquaculture, and which prove harmful to the surrounding environment, the welfare and health conditions of the organisms living in that habitat.
in writing. - the commission has proposed a framework directive for the development and implementation of maritime spatial management plans and integrated coastal zone management strategies. i welcome the commission's proposal, given the increased demand for maritime space and the lack of coordination in its use. following the establishment of the integrated maritime policy in 2007 and the adoption of the blue growth agenda in 2012, a directive on maritime spatial planning is a logical consequence and an important step forward. i also think it is important that this directive complies with the principle of subsidiarity and gives the member states a certain degree of flexibility, since the coastline may require different strategic approaches to manage its specific features efficiently.
in writing. - the european commission's blue paper has already outlined an ambitious programme of sectoral policies which should be developed to create a governance framework to ensure the success of the integrated maritime policy. to achieve significant growth in the sector, innovative smes and large enterprises need to be given legal certainty to invest in future technologies or in costly projects. the environmental aspect of this situation should not be overlooked either: activities and resource use in the maritime and coastal sector often take place in environmentally sensitive areas and therefore an approach that takes account of the integrity of ecosystems must be the key.
in writing. - i voted against the text which calls for an increase in the european parliament's expenditure of 2.24% compared to 2014.
in writing. - i believe that a natural or legal person who has suffered damage as a result of an infringement of competition law should be able to claim and obtain full compensation for that damage, which is why i supported the schwab report with my vote.
in writing. - the commission's proposal is very well received, as it can bring great benefits to consumers and smes in exercising their right to compensation for damage caused by infringements of competition law. the absence of adequate national rules is a very serious shortcoming for several member states and the difference between the various national laws further exacerbates this situation. the instruments provided for in the text in question can make a major contribution to reducing legal uncertainty and gaps, ensuring the rights of operators on the european market and strengthening their confidence.
in writing. - i think that the report analysing the regulation on shipments of waste is acceptable and does not present any particular criticisms, which is why i voted in favour of it.
in writing. - i appreciate the balanced approach of the report, which avoids easy ideological exploitation and implicitly recognises waste production as an aspect of the global production system. the illegal export of waste to politically weak or corrupt areas from somalia to west africa is a well-documented scourge whose origins date back to the blockade era. it is a moral scourge, because of the environmental and health risks in the regions concerned, but above all from an economic point of view, because it is the main obstacle to the widespread development of an adequate industrial base which could, within a legal framework, express an important economic potential also for the emerging countries, in a perspective of comparative advantage. the effects of slowing down development and innovation are even more visible in the european industrial system, again with significant moral implications not only in terms of corporate social responsibility but also in relation to the overall high amount of funds allocated by both the fp and horizon 2020 to the development of environmentally sustainable economies. an appropriate control system, such as that suggested by the protocols provided for in the regulation, seems likely to make important progress. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. - in the text, the commission identifies a number of specific costs and causes of illegal waste shipment, which are borne by the member states and, ultimately, by european citizens, both in economic terms and in terms of well-being and health. it therefore proposes a series of measures to overcome several shortcomings in the implementation of the relevant legislation in the member states. i support the report also because it aims to strengthen these measures by improving knowledge of illegal shipments and giving greater powers to the authorities, as well as by strengthening cooperation between member states, while not putting an undue burden on honest economic operators working in the sector.
in writing. - analysis of recent data on the use of psychoactive substances has shown the need for more effective and better coordinated action between member states and eu agencies in relation to the use of such substances. this proposal for a regulation is welcomed as it establishes a system for the rapid exchange of information on new psychoactive substances appearing on the market, including their commercial and industrial use, in order to assess the risks of those of concern at eu level and to withdraw those of concern from the market. we must prevent the social, health and safety risks that these substances can cause, and through this regulation we can ensure an effective and structural response to the problem in question.
in writing. - i share the views expressed in the report analysing the regulation on new psychoactive substances, and i believe that the harmonization of legislation at european level and the creation of a single register will facilitate the management of these substances in all the member states.
in writing. - over 200 substances with dangerous psychoactive effects are readily available in european cities, not to mention international trade, fuelled by a vibrant blogosphere of enthusiastic regular users, unlikely rebel theorists, and real brokerage businesses. in addition to plant extracts, which are widely available to consumers, the immediate and obvious threat is the abuse of medicines (especially analgesics of certain categories) and the spread of precursors. the eu has long adopted a philosophy of not criminalising the use of individual substances by individuals, but of assessing their impact on society on the basis of objective scientific and epidemiological findings, in order to protect the safety of citizens, which is one of the values enshrined in the european charter. the trivialization of the social risks of unconscious use of such substances must also be combated. the eu has the merit of responding in a timely manner to this new challenge to the health of europeans through a balanced and flexible regulation, strongly anchored in the principles of proportionality and subsidiarity, which provides the tools for an effective and immediate response, while at the same time establishing important mechanisms for the exchange of information between the authorities concerned by scientific research, regulatory categorisation and enforcement.
in writing. - the report aims to regulate the increasingly widespread misuse of what are termed 'new psychoactive substances', i.e. new generation chemicals for commercial and industrial use. they reproduce the effects of certain drugs, their consumption is highly harmful to the health of individuals and their marketing under the guise of environmental perfumes and fertilizers is a danger to public health and society. for the reasons stated above, i am voting in favour.
in writing. - the rapid spread of psychoactive substances has led to a variety of control measures in the member states, with the application of state-specific methods which may create obstacles to the proper functioning of the internal market. the commission's communication on this subject is therefore welcome, as it calls for a more decisive and coherent response from the eu and the member states, through more active exchange of information and withdrawal and temporary restrictions for certain substances. the fight against these new substances will be better tackled by means of these new instruments, allowing for more coordinated action, which is essential in the fight against organised crime in this sector, which often exploits transnational criminal networks.
in writing. - i am in favour of this proposal because it aims to bring the new psychoactive substances under the same criminal law provisions as other substances controlled under the un conventions. psychoactive substances, like many other drugs, are a threat to society, affecting the functioning of the brain which creates symptoms such as changes in consciousness, behaviour and cognition. tackling the distribution of psychoactive substances is not to be underestimated. though member states do have their own policies on tackling illicit drugs, when psychoactive substances are being distributed from one member state to another efficient cooperation between member states is indispensable, especially in an era when commerce and communication are no longer limited by physical and geographical boundaries.
in writing. - i consider the report to be balanced and acceptable, and for these reasons i have voted in favour of it.
in writing. - a recent epidemiological study published by a leading american university indicates a 30% increase in a component linked to the use of psychoactive substances in the statistics of fatal road accidents. in addition, there is a growing tendency to combine different psychotropic substances, both legal and illegal, in a mixture extremely harmful to the health of the person concerned at the liver and kidney level, as well as being likely to trigger genuine psychotic episodes. in some member states, recent case law is moving towards the case of voluntary manslaughter in the event of a fatal accident caused by the use of substances capable of altering an individual's capabilities. studies accompanying the european road safety plan indicate that, in the face of a steady improvement in the safety conditions of the network, there is a corresponding increase in dangerous behaviour. a driver who is intoxicated by alcohol is 13 times more likely to cause a fatal accident. in the case of alcohol and psychotropic substances, the odds are 24 to 1 compared to a compos sui driver. there is no room for any indulgence. i shall be forgiven for giving a simple but emblematic example of detail in support of my declaration of vote in favour of the report.
in writing. - the following proposal is part of the regulatory package on new psychoactive substances. it aims to include them in the list of drugs, thus making applicable the package of rules and sanctions already in place for the protection of union citizens in this area. i am voting in favour of the initiative as i consider it to be correct and proportionate.
in writing. - i agree with the decision to subject new psychoactive substances to the same criminal law provisions as other controlled substances under the un conventions. although member states have their own policies to combat illicit drugs on the national market, more efficient cooperation is needed in order to fight a transnational organised criminal system on an equal footing.
in writing. - i voted for the report to continue to elevate eu-japan relations by the timely conclusion of the negotiations for a comprehensive strategic partnership agreement.
in writing. - the political and commercial link between the eu and japan is now an established reality and one of the eu's major international successes, which is why its further deepening can only ensure a rise in mutual friendship and trust. the political dialogue must continue to emphasise a range of shared values, objectives and responsibilities for the promotion of peace, stability and democracy at global level, while also aiming to strengthen the promotion of peace in the regional area in which japan is located and to promote respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms there. in economic matters, a framework on cooperation in science, technology, trade and research is needed to increase the eu's innovation potential, but also to cooperate in defining a sustainable common agenda for combating climate change.
in writing. - while i agree with some of the points in the resolution under vote, many others appear to be contradictory and unclear, which is why i abstained.
in writing. - respect for cultural diversity is a fundamental concept of the eu and certainly, in defending its interests on the world stage, the european union must rely on promoting the fundamental values on which it is founded. the treaties themselves state that the eu must promote these values. the eu is also a promoter of multilateralism at international level, which is why the role of the united nations needs to be enhanced by promoting reforms that make the organisation more in line with the reality of the current global system. but i agree that religious extremist groups who use violence as a tool to fuel hatred and intolerance and to influence legislation are a serious threat to international peace, which is why the eu must fight these extremist fringes.
in writing. - i found the text to be voted on problematic, so i voted against the resolution analysing the pressure exerted by russia on the eastern partnership countries.
in writing. - i support this resolution condemning the continuing and growing political and civil destabilisation of ukraine, further exacerbated by russia's pursuit of a realpolitik which has no place in international relations, or else we shall return to a state of legal uncertainty in which international law risks remaining a dead letter. the eu must work to find a diplomatic solution to the situation as soon as possible, which is the only way forward in my view. moscow's pressure on the eastern partnership countries shows that russia views the eu as a threat rather than a trade and political partner, which is why the eu must also commit itself to presenting itself as a reliable and friendly partner, which does not intend to undermine russia's interests through its relations with the countries of the caucasus and eastern europe. it is, however, essential for the maintenance of good relations between the eu and russia that the latter renounce any military solution that endangers peace and stability in the area.
in writing. - i voted against the resolution expressing support for a free trade agreement with vietnam that would serve almost exclusively the interests of importers and companies that have relocated.
in writing. - vietnam has made progress in many political and economic areas, which is why i believe that the eu should continue to deepen its relationship with the asian country. however, it should be stressed that vietnam does have a vested interest in the liberalization of trade in services and the mutual recognition of professional qualifications. these are interests that the country should give up in order to ensure fair access for all european and vietnamese investors and service providers.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution calling on the commission to ensure that smes have easy access to finance and markets and to reduce the regulatory burden, which is one of the main obstacles to their creation and development.
in writing. - smart regulation for smes is essential to ensure their competitiveness, avoiding excessive bureaucratic burdens and discriminatory measures. for this reason, i fully support the principle of 'think small', which takes full account of the role that smes play in the european economy and thus protects them from unfair competition. this approach therefore also includes the responsibility of the eu and the member states to ensure administrative simplification - which normally burdens smes much more heavily than large enterprises, due to their smaller economic capacities - as well as measures to enhance the transparency of procurement and relations between enterprises and public institutions, so as to ensure a level playing field between smes and larger competitors.
i thank the conductor and the whole orchestra. i would remind you that, under rule 14 (2) of the rules of procedure, no debate may take place under the chairmanship of the outgoing president which is not concerned with the election of the president or the verification of credentials. all documents relating to the proclamation of the election of members shall be forwarded to the committee responsible for verifying credentials, which shall be set up in accordance with rule 196. under rule 3 (2) of the rules of procedure, until the credentials of a member have been verified or a decision taken on any objections, the member shall have full rights to sit in parliament and in its bodies, provided that he has previously made a declaration of incompatibility. in accordance with article 7 of the act concerning the election of the members of the european parliament by direct universal suffrage, members who perform duties incompatible with their mandate as members of the european parliament may not sit in parliament. the three members who have not yet signed the declaration of incompatibility and who do not yet enjoy full rights are invited to do so immediately at the desk in front of the entrance to the chamber, otherwise they will not be able to vote. ladies and gentlemen, before proceeding to our agenda, i should like to express my great honour, and even more my pleasure, at being able to open the work of this new legislature as interim president of the european parliament. the wish i have for myself first and for each of you is to live up to the expectations of so many citizens who, by voting, have sent a clear message about the need for change. the hope is that in five years' time we will be able to say with pride that our work has made a concrete contribution to a better, fairer europe that is closer to the needs of its citizens. in accordance with the provisions of our rules of procedure, we are to elect the president this morning. according to rule 15 (1), the president of the european parliament must be nominated by a political group or at least 40 members with the consent of the persons concerned. instructions for the election of the president have been distributed to you. i have received, under the conditions laid down in the rules of procedure, the following nominations for the presidency of the european parliament: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. 409 votes to go. the candidates have informed me that they accept their respective nominations. i would remind you that under rule 16 (1) of the rules of procedure, in order to be elected a candidate must obtain an absolute majority of the votes cast in the first three ballots. blank or blank ballots shall not be counted in the counting of the votes cast. before proceeding with the election, i give the floor to each candidate for a maximum of five minutes in alphabetical order.
the rules of procedure provide for a secret ballot. i'm going to draw lots for the electors. i have to say that i am very pleased with the report. you agree? come here, please. the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments. you in? you agree? come here to the presidency. the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: thank you. come here. i would like to thank mr ferber for his report. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. - please. i would like to thank mr petersen for his report. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: thank you, sir. the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments. the vote will now take place. let's start distributing the ballots and the envelopes. in accordance with the provisions of our rules of procedure, we shall proceed to the election of the president. ballot papers and envelopes were distributed to you. please tick the box for the name of the selected candidate. you can vote for one candidate only. if you wish to change your vote, you can ask the salesman for another ballot, returning the wrong one, which will be destroyed. any card on which signs or inscriptions have been made or more than one box has been ticked shall be deemed void. please fold the card in four before you put it in the envelope. for those of you who wish to use them, there are also some booths set up at the entrance to the hemicycle. please go to the ballot box corresponding to the initial of your surname. i will not name the members, i will simply declare the ballot open. the names of members who took part in a secret ballot shall be entered in the minutes; please sign the list before you put the ballot in the ballot box. i remind you that the envelope containing the ballot paper must be deposited in the urn corresponding to the initial of your surname. at the same time, you will present your identity card to your fellow voter. the electors will vote at the close of the ballot. the ballot is open. well, did everyone vote? the ballot is closed. i would ask the voters to go to room r1.1 to examine the cards. the sitting shall be suspended and its resumption shall be announced by the appropriate sound system and indicated on the screens.
ladies and gentlemen, i give you the results of the vote: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: 307 is 307. they got votes: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. mr schulz has obtained an absolute majority of the votes cast and is therefore elected president of the european parliament. i warmly congratulate mr schulz on his election and wish him all the best for the exercise of his mandate. i call upon you to take the chair immediately.
i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr van der lek, for his excellent report, and also for the fact that the commission has been able to take part in the debate on the future of the european union. i hope to have a positive, loyal and fruitful relationship with all of you. i would like to renew our sincere and warm wishes to president schulz. we will work hand in hand with president schulz to promote and strengthen the european project, to increase the confidence and participation of citizens, and to strengthen the role and prestige of this institution. the most significant, i would say historic, development of this european council, president van rompuy, was the decision to nominate jean-claude juncker as president of the commission. this is first and foremost a victory for democracy, the result of a battle fought by the european parliament. i am proud to point out the crucial role played by the socialists and democrats in this process. we must not forget that the council has been able to overcome the understandable difficulties which are inherent in any progress in the democratic process. we are not going to let the european parliament be the judge of the outcome of the elections. mr president, this is only the opening kick of the game. the game is all about playing and it can hold surprises. it is now up to juncker to convince us with his proposals, his programme and the talent of the team he will choose to carry out this programme. the council's recognition of the need to make the stability and growth pact more flexible is a breath of fresh air that should have come sooner. we now call for all the possibilities offered by this flexibility to be clearly rejected and fully exploited. my group will not sign blank cheques. we are asking for concrete answers with concrete proposals, we are asking for decisive action, which will enable employment to be revived, a growth plan, public and private investment in large infrastructure and energy networks. i am also thinking of the project bonds, a better use of the european budget and its increased funding. we call for action to safeguard and improve the quality of life of our citizens, and for increased solidarity measures to reverse the alarming growth of poverty and social inequalities. i am thinking of minimum wages guaranteed at european level, i am thinking of equal treatment for crossborder workers. we call for the council's opening up of legal channels for migrants to enter the eu to take concrete form. we call for solidarity between member states to become the basis of a new immigration and asylum policy, in which there is a fair sharing of responsibility. we call for the safe granting of asylum to those who are entitled to it, using all the instruments at our disposal, including the examination of third country applications or the use of humanitarian visas. the european union must rise to the challenge and rethink the mediterranean, this great sea, often bloody, but which is our common european frontier, a place for intensive cooperation in support of democracy, fundamental rights, security, sustainable human mobility, economic and social development. last but not least, the agreement with ukraine, georgia, moldova, which is a crucial step forward. our commitment to building and securing lasting peace and stability in the region requires us to look strategically at our eastern partnership programme and our relations with russia. that is the direction we must walk. we socialists and democrats will certainly do our part. happy birthday to you all. (applause) i would like to thank
answer to a blue-card question. i'll make it simple for you. the governments used to meet and appoint the president of the commission. this was not a test of great democracy. for the first time in history, there was an electoral campaign in which the major european political families indicated the personalities and the citizens also expressed themselves in terms of these personalities. the vote was a majority, mr juncker was approved and the democratic consequence was that mr juncker was appointed president of the european commission. it's not hard to understand.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr lamassoure is quite right: the european council was a historic summit. it will be remembered in the history books as a victory not of one institution over another but of parliamentary democracy, which is perhaps the highest form of democracy and certainly the most effective. we acknowledge that the european council has acted wisely and avoided the path of a dangerous interinstitutional crisis. but precisely because we recognize this, we would also like to hear from president van rompuy which aspects of this process need to be reconsidered, since this is the subject of a chapter in the european council conclusions. we think it is legitimate for the european council to make its views known, but we also think that what has been achieved is a point of no return. we will not accept any step backwards from what has been a de facto violation of the spirit and the letter of the lisbon treaty and of the supreme principle of democracy. this of course also concerns the question of differentiated integration. differential integration is a principle laid down in the treaties. parliament expressed its views on the following points: but the fact that some countries are able to move more rapidly on the road to integration does not mean that the rights and principles of the treaties already established can be called into question. (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i want to thank the greek presidency for working, of course in very difficult conditions, to open up what i hope will truly be a different era in euro-mediterranean policy, also through some important steps that have been taken. i think that, finally, your action has also brought home the fact that there is no europe without a genuine mediterranean policy and that a new immigration policy, one that is more supportive and more sensitive to rights, must be set in this context. but above all there is a chapter in the last communication from the council and subsequently also from the commission on culture and i hope that this is a subject which the italian presidency - indeed i am sure of it - will make its own: i am talking about the question of the valorisation of cultural, landscape and environmental heritage as one of the great resources for a new model of development, for growth, for a new cultural tourism, for an economy that is also based on cultural sustainability and not only on social, environmental and economic sustainability. i think that this step and the attention paid by the greek presidency, which echoed a statement by the belgian presidency in 2010 - which had instead seen a significant shortcoming in the europe 2020 strategy - can be an element to bear in mind.
i thank mr gianni pittella for his brilliant role as first vice-president over so many years and i congratulate him on the brilliant result achieved within his group which appointed him president just last night.
on behalf of the s&d group. thank you, and i wish you all the best, mr president tajani. mr president-in-office, if i were to tweet about your speech, i would say "authoritative, ambitious, passionate, concrete". you have not disappointed our positive expectations and i must say that your positions are in harmony with those of the socialist and democratic group. because, yes, in these years of severe economic and social crisis, we socialists and democrats have fought, and will continue to fight, for a more equitable europe, for a more democratic europe, for a europe capable of guaranteeing every person a job and a decent wage. a europe that does not leave governments to their own devices when it comes to managing migration flows, a europe that can inspire young people to dream. and today you outlined that stone dream, that better future that europe owes to its young people and its citizens, the citizens who said in the last elections: "europe must change or europe must die". and we have taken a first step towards change in the appointment of the president of the european commission, taking account of the vote of the citizens: it was a great democratic breakthrough. but there are two big issues that remain, among many, that are priorities: one is the economy, and the other is migration. on the economic front, we cannot help but see the comatose state of european society. the figures speak for themselves, of unemployment, of marginalization, of the condition of the middle class, which today is depopulated, weakened, impoverished. we must give answers on this issue, which is the priority issue, because there is no freedom without freedom from want. and that is a priority condition we are putting. we do not want to "cash" the public accounts, mr weber: we are not the wreckers of public finances. but we cannot accept the breakdown of society, of the humanity we represent, of the people in the flesh, not the numbers. (applause) we have to fix the numbers, but we have to fix people's lives. that means using all the flexibility provided for in the pact. we do not want to change, at least for the time being, a point of balance: that pact was called "growth and stability", but it was only stability and austerity, i would add, and it was not growth. and so we are true to our agreements: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i hope that the council will take them up. (applause) i would like to thank and on immigration: we need to practice the word 'solidarity', which cannot be a slogan, it must be practiced. solidarity with those who ask us to open our doors, solidarity with governments and countries that are under greater migratory pressure. we owe you that. europe is born as the condiment of solidarity but then it loses its way and forgets the concrete meaning of solidarity. president renzi has spoken clearly both on the flexibility of the pact and the need for growth and on the european management of migration flows. president renzi spoke of the mediterranean, this blood-soaked sea, and he reminded us that the mediterranean is not only a sea of interreligious conflict, of death carts: it is also the sea of a great millennial civilization, which founded democracy. yet a small, little politician a few years ago said: "but what if greece leaves the euro or the european union? almost nothing happens", forgetting that europe without greece would be like a child without his birth certificate. europe needs to regain its greatness, and politics needs to regain its greatness, it needs to regain real leaders, not paper leaders, such as the president of the italian council of ministers. we will support the italian semester, because it will be a true change semester. thank you, president renzi, for what you will do for europe. (the president agreed to answer three 'blue card' questions) (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
it's a blue-card question. i'm not sure what it is. i would like to ask mr pittella: she said: "we are faithful to our agreements". what did he mean by that? and i would like you to explain how treaties and agreements were imposed in italy without any involvement of the citizens and without any democracy.
answer to three blue-card questions. even those who do not have a degree in, say, mathematics or a specialization in these subjects know that without growth, there is no reduction in debt. the experience of recent years has shown that austerity alone has increased public debt. we must act on reducing parasitic spending and, at the same time, we must act on supporting growth. you must not interrupt because i did not interrupt you and no one can interrupt their colleagues. it is therefore an illusion to think that we can restore public accounts with zero or below zero growth, because the revenue of the state is being reduced. secondly: the italian government has every right to raise a growth issue here. i would like to remind you that italy has one of the highest primary surpluses in the world, and this is the result of farsighted and courageous government action. and i want to remind you, but president renzi will do so in his closing speech, that there is a programme of structural reforms which have already been started and which will be carried forward. climate and energy: i don't think that italy is a country or has a government that is insensitive to these issues that concern environmental sustainability. as far as agreements are concerned, we are committed to an interpretation of the stability and growth pact in which there are two terms: stability and growth. so far it has been fighting only on the accelerator of stability and austerity and not on that of growth. if they 're together , that 's fine . if they're not together, we socialists and democrats are not.
it's a blue-card question. i'm not sure what it is. i'm sorry, i just got here. i have heard you speak of euroscepticism. i wonder if you and your colleagues are aware of how much the austerity and your austerity policies are a source of euroscepticism and how much they are creating disaffection with europe. we have heard a lot about the problem of youth unemployment from mr barroso: president renzi spoke of the "telemaco" generation: i'd like to ask you if you realize that this telemaco generation is the most precarious since the postwar era. do you realize all this? and you can see why, because the european summit on youth unemployment, which was scheduled for july, has been postponed until the end of the semester. maybe because the objections are too unflattering?
i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of europe, but that we should be concerned about the future of europe. i would agree if the words were matched by concrete projects. everything has to change in the union: the european union must be able to play a leading role in the world economy. the italian semester begins with some disturbing assurances: economic rules are not discussed, even though they are the ones that have exacerbated the recession and unprecedented mistrust in europe; the so-called structural reforms - increasingly precarious work, reduction of public expenditure, even reduced constitutions - are still considered indispensable conditions for growth. everything is as it is: they just change the words to say it. there is no growth without rigor because rigor is the prerequisite for growth. the syllogism has become intolerable. what we are asking of the italian semester is a radically re-founded union. it is not enough to be satisfied with the flexibility of the parameters for national investment which is not in fact granted to us: the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe in the past, and it is a great help to the people of europe today. we need a union with adequate own resources if the new deal is to give jobs to the millions who have lost them. it can be financed by the european investment bank, the financial transaction tax, the carbon tax, two taxes that are conducive to ecological development. invest in infrastructure, renewable energy, and research: here's the assignment. nor should we overlook the proposal for a debt conference, similar to the one that in 1953 forgave much of germany's war debts and allowed it to be reborn. (applause) i would like to thank it is also a matter of governing immigration, not just by controlling borders, but by creating real humanitarian corridors for refugees: it's too tragic. the last council says otherwise: it is up to the southern countries alone to save lives in the mediterranean. unfortunately, renzi's proposal on mutual recognition of asylum seekers has not been successful either. the task is to listen to the citizens who demand a clear break in continuity: the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. the peace of europe can no longer be decided in the united states. we need a european peace on our borders with russia and in the mediterranean. and with america, we need a breakthrough. renzi promises to conclude the trade agreement between the us commissions and multinationals, the ttp, soon: it seems to be unaware of the dangers, nor does it appear to be fighting for an end to the scandalous secrecy of the negotiations. what the voters want is clear: the liberals' dogma is not working. keynes said that politicians are generally slaves to deceased economists. what i ask of renzi is that he not make us believe that the new is the denunciation of the euro-bureaucrats and an uninterrupted slavery by deceased economists. what i am asking the european parliament to do is to send a strong signal that the beginning of change is in this house.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr renzi, the election campaign is over, but we in this house of democracy have heard the same old stories: development, growth, flexibility. but not a word has been said to the millions of citizens who are systematically excluded from all the decision-making processes that affect them. you speak of discontinuity: but what is your conception of discontinuity, of change, of the new generation? is it the appointment of jean-claude juncker as president of the commission and martin schulz as president of this parliament? the people and the social democrats are united in the sharing of power and seats with the endorsement of a few small groups. we want to change: we want a different europe, a different europe first of all in terms of treaties, agreements and policies. we have heard talk of treaties like the fiscal compact, but never in these institutions has there been talk of the social compact or of any social rebalancing measures, a subject which obviously does not interest you. we have seen your enthusiasm for the european stability mechanism, but we have never seen any enthusiasm for the idea of a european social stability mechanism, in which income, work and the dignity of citizens are given priority. (applause) i would like to thank and now we hear in your words a very big enthusiasm when you say the acronym ttip, does it sound good? if the multinationals operating in the unified markets are really given the opportunity to sue national governments, then the most perverse design of globalization, namely governments controlled by markets, will really be realized. do you have any idea what the consequences of this ttip, or free trade and investment agreement between the united states and europe, are? they have secret meetings that exclude us citizens from the discussion and they open wide the doors to narrow and very powerful lobbies that will decide everything about our future, a future that would completely give away to the multinationals our market, the food we eat, the medicines we take care of ourselves with, the air we breathe. with this treaty, who could prevent the sale in the spanish, italian or portuguese markets of a gmo tomato produced in a laboratory in texas? or a parmigiano reggiano made in minnesota? who would control and regulate the protection of the specific features of the territory, and on the basis of what rules? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but who wants this treaty? who's running it? as the five star movement, we will start a process of transparency and monitoring of the ttip treaty in all committees with determination and courage as early as this july. the citizens must have a say. (applause) i would like to thank we, president renzi, expect this presidency to take a different course from the one we have followed so far. the model of globalisation is almost an undeniable dogma for the european union. but are we really sure that the time has not come when globalization itself is controlling these governments? it's the many tables that are open for economic and financial globalization. yesterday morocco, today the united states, tomorrow china, tunisia and then who knows. but the ones for the globalization of rights, president? have you ever set up a table, one, to negotiate the equalization of workers' rights, to ensure fair competition in europe and with non-european countries? do you ask yourself what the conditions are for workers in the countries you are calling for free trade? who can answer the question of the spanish, italian or portuguese farmer who finds his products on the market at half price and is forced to close his farm? how do you explain this to the underpaid polish workers, to the exploited romanians, to the millions and millions of unemployed and desperate europeans without any income? we ask ourselves, as european citizens, what future awaits a europe which relocates the hands of workers where the cost of labour is not dignified, which relocates its portfolios to tax havens, often the headquarters of multinationals, and which keeps only its head here, that is to say, the administrative and financial centres, which are gradually surrounded by social anger and a great deal of misery. what does the european parliament do? it spends 200 million euros a year on its travels here to strasbourg and at the same time allocates a few pennies to dealing with continuing humanitarian tragedies, such as the dramatic rescues of human lives in the sicilian channel. is this the europe you want, mr president? we honestly don't. (applause) the speaker agrees to answer a question on the blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
it's a blue-card question. i'm not sure what it is. mr president, i would like to ask my colleague mr corrao, who criticised the european council's choice to name juncker as an unacceptable compromise, a compromise which i, as a committed european federalist, support, what alternative proposal his political group had in mind, since it stood for election without presenting a candidate for the presidency of the european commission. so i ask myself: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter.
answer to a blue-card question. i have criticised the fact that this presidency - or at least the election campaigns - indicate a certain discontinuity with the past or a new generation. i do not think that juncker is the expression of a change or a new generation.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i was disappointed. i expected more. maybe it's the fatigue, maybe the journey, maybe tonight you can't stop to talk to the reporters because there's a tv broadcast in italy. perhaps it is because the debate is so interesting that the president of the european commission has left. i think it is shameful that the president of the european commission has gone about his business and is not in this house to hear renzi's answers and the speeches of the other members. i'm talking to the president of the council, i'm talking to my colleagues and i'm talking to everyone watching this live stream: i do not think barroso is the man who will replace him. not a word about the maros. i've heard about women's rights in pakistan, right; about persecuted christians in nigeria, right. this is the palace of hypocrisy and lies because there are two soldiers, not italian, but european, who have been in prison in india for two years: not a word on the subject. we take care of the losers of the world, the poor of the world, not the poor of our own house. and that's really depressing from my point of view. the humanitarian corridor - i'll tell some friends on the left - i wish there was one for the 150 italian entrepreneurs who committed suicide because of the economic crisis last year. i would like to see the humanitarian corridor for the pensioners who have been massacred in italy and the rest of europe because europe demands it. i would like to see the humanitarian corridor for those farmers and fishermen who have been destroyed, whose experience of decades has been thrown away, because european regulations, decided at the table by someone who, although he has never seen a fish or an apricot, decides how to fish, how to farm. not a word about agriculture, not a word about fishing. not a word about the banks. this building and the commission - a ghost - are making the banks a billion euros fatter without a single pound going to the savers, the entrepreneurs, the artisans, the families. there's a massacre going on. italy had a negative birth record last year. i don't know how it works in the rest of europe, but we're back 40 years in terms of newborns. because this wrong europe and this wrong currency are stealing future and hope. so i am sorry that this is the palace of hypocrisy and lies, that makes a minute's silence when a few hundred desperate people drown, when the only solution to prevent these drownings is not to let them go. either someone tells me that italy and europe can accommodate a billion people, or mr pittella will observe a minute's silence, two minutes' silence, three minutes' silence because these massacres have been repeated today, they will be repeated tomorrow, they will be repeated the day after tomorrow. maybe you live on another planet: i respond to telemaco with bobby sands who died on hunger strike after 66 days saying: our day will come. here's someone dancing on the titanic. the day will come when those who have nothing will come here to take back what is theirs, starting with a wrong coin in the name of which you are destroying the hope of entire generations. what a generation of erasmus!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr prime minister, you have spoken beautiful words, very beautiful words, and who can not share them? i would like to continue - i have only two minutes and i cannot - starting with telemachus, to answer you with the myth of ulysses, with antigone, which for me is the very birth of our civilization between italy and greece. i hope we get a chance to do that. but i worry about what you didn't say, which is probably in that written document that you filed, but maybe if you had mentioned something concrete we would have understood these beautiful values as you intended to embody them and translate them into political action. because i believe that we have a responsibility here, as you reminded us, to restore confidence in europe. but you have the greatest responsibility today: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. and change is something you have to give us through action. this is your responsibility. and then i would have loved to hear about it. yes, she spoke about immigration, let's say with her: i said i would like to hear about business, employment, growth, made in, which the european parliament voted for and which we are now handing over to the council, about visa reform, about paying off the debts of the public administration, since we have to respect the rules, about our mares. yes, our sailors, prime minister: let's take them home, because we have to close this page: it's a dramatic page. get international agencies involved - you know which ones - and bring them home. let's end this page, truly unworthy of a civilized country. we will help you to be strong, yes, and we will also help you to look at europe as a great opportunity, not just as a brake. but you must commit yourself with concrete action and not just with beautiful, beautiful words.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr president-in-office, i welcome you to this house on behalf of the members of the democratic party. the debate is becoming too italian, but i thank you because you have outlined a vision at the beginning of the italian semester and without a vision, mr weber, it will be difficult to get out of the crisis and make our countries stronger. of course, we need our countries to emerge from the crisis and become stronger for a stronger europe. but let us not forget that we can only do so with much more solidarity, much more justice, much more equality. and so we need to take up a lot of challenges and think that we're all starting a legislature. the commission is initiating it, parliament is initiating it, all the institutions are aware of the state of the art in europe at this moment. what should be our common focus? first of all, the lessons we have learned from these five years of crisis: with only discipline, we will not get out of the difficulty. so we have to put in what is natural and what should be: the commission resources for what? resources for investment, for employment, for research. if we think about the future, how can we not invest in research? and these are objectives for the benefit of all european citizens. we need to change policies and approaches to policies. we talk a lot and are rightly shocked by what is happening in the mediterranean: but until we transfer national policies to europe, we will not have a real europe that deals with immigration policies. do we all want to take up this challenge together? this is for all the citizens of europe and i thank you, mr president, for speaking of heritage: it's very important because we must never forget where we came from and we must remember what paul valéry said with distrust during the war, as nazism advanced: "what will become of europe? europe will become what it really is, a small headland on the asian continent". no, we haven't and we don't want to. and thank you for talking about the crossroads. (the president cut off the speaker) (the president agreed to reply to a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a blue-card question. never forget that the values of life, the values of human dignity, the values of freedom are not only the reason why we are here in this chamber, but also because we want a europe that is stronger, more just, more united and based on a spirit of equality. we must ensure that these values are shared by others.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the president of the council did not deign to listen to any questions from the italian members of parliament, who had been meeting for this purpose and who had been waiting for him for some time, given his delay. this is a bad precedent, president renzi. it's a precedent that doesn't bode well. she has time for television, she has time for gossip, for jokes, for being seen when she pretends to talk to people but then, in fact, she does the banks' interests, with the pos, forcing the small trader to buy the mechanism to record expenses above 30 euros. you are the one who covers up the misdeeds of your party with the monte dei paschi of siena, because you sit on the benches of a party which has emptied the coffers of an extraordinarily important bank of our healthy banking tradition, which is that of the banks that serve the territory, and not that of the one that rules here in europe, in the council of this europe of banks that finance only their friends and who cough. you do nothing, with the bill that is currently under consideration by your government, to block derivatives speculation and people who know the situation in our country know that we are very close to the bursting of a new financial bubble. you're a clown! (the president cut the speaker off and called him to order)
mr borghezio, i ask you to use language more appropriate to this house, criticism is always allowed, political debate is always allowed, but i ask you to use language more appropriate to this house in relation to the president of the council.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr prime minister, in your speech you spoke of a europe without a soul, a europe that has faded, a europe that clearly needs to find its way back, and that is why we believe that the italian presidency can bring to light the true european project, the project of the founding fathers, the project towards the united states of europe. but on the other hand, you told us that without growth there is no future, and that is perfectly acceptable. we need a presidency which invests in competitiveness, a presidency which can put research, innovation and the competitiveness of our economic system at the centre of the future of our europe. but on the other hand, as a sicilian, i can only remember what is happening on our shores. it is clear that immigration policy must be a priority for the presidency and we hope that, with the cooperation of all the other countries which cannot remain indifferent, new, visible and concrete results can be achieved during the six months of the italian presidency, because this slaughter on the coasts of sicily can no longer be followed up. i should also like to thank you, as a member of the epp, for the support you have given, as a socialist president, to mr junker's candidacy for the council. it is a decisive step towards european democracy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr president-in-office, i would like you to allow me a joke, perhaps to soothe the spirits, and believe me, without any intention of offending anyone. i very much liked the idea you gave of this europe taking a selfie of itself. i would like you to take this photograph but i would be sorry if you were surprised if instead of finding an image of boredom, you found the face of junker with the face of merkel behind it saying "hello".
the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the very serious environmental crisis in which the regions of southern italy are plunged, and in particular the land from which i come, the so-called "land of fires", demands that the cry for help and alarm raised by the citizens who are called upon to pay a very high price for the mismanagement of the waste cycle and the infiltration of organized crime, be duly heeded. in recent years, there has been a negative impact on the health of citizens, the environment and agriculture, with an increase in cancer diseases that make it no longer possible to postpone the mapping of risk areas, the implementation of an extraordinary plan of remediation and the adoption of urgent measures for the crisis caused by the agri-food sector, a true local production excellence. i ask the european commissioner for the environment to start a genuinely new phase with a clear commitment to the issue and a decisive contribution to these emergencies, defining the financing of the most effective strategies, in order to return to those peoples, to my people, a land that is a land of work and prosperity and not of fires and suffering.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are new here, we have just arrived and have therefore been watching you a lot, listening to you a lot. the ones that have struck me the most have been these days: change, innovation and sustainability. however, we see that today there is hardly anyone. for example, the leader of the socialist and democratic group, mr pittella, has been here for 15 years, will be here for another five years and has been in politics for 40 years. my brother - i come from a region, the poor little basilicata - has been governor and in politics for 40 years and my father has been a senator of the italian republic and in politics for over 60 years. that's great. so when you say the word change, what exactly do you mean? i would also like to say that in that small region, but also in all of southern italy, oil is being extracted, the energy of the future, with drilling techniques that are banned in the rest of the world, such as horizontal fracking. that's great. in those same areas we have a sudden and irreversible cancer growth linked to hydrocarbon exposure. when you say the words innovation and sustainability, what exactly do you mean?
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr juncker, i want to start by talking about a region which is not in the european union, but which has never been so european as it is these days: i'm going to gaza. there is war in gaza, yet another war that is claiming thousands of civilian lives. we have to stop this war! no one can close their eyes or turn away. war is re-emerging on the borders of europe: we have to be very careful not to let the european union become a mere speculation. well, the war we thought we'd exorcised forever has returned and is bringing back ancient demons. it reminds us of srebrenica, the anniversary of which we are celebrating these days. but the war, this war, is a mirror to us because it recalls the deep meaning - as my colleague mr weber has just reminded us - the deep meaning, the reason for the existence of the european project. the european union is certainly an economic and monetary union and also a banking union, but it is something more, it is a project of civilization, of peace, of solidarity. as the first action of this new legislature we must work to enforce a ceasefire and a humanitarian assistance plan for gaza. europe will not be itself until it has found the message of peace for which it was born. my first thought goes to the thousands of victims of the gaza war. mr president, five years ago josé manuel barroso was in this very room. the crisis had been going on for a few months, and many were already predicting its end. five years later - and you have spoken honestly about this - the crisis is still there, europe is mired in deep stagnation. there is a risk of deflation, unemployment and poverty have risen, an entire generation has lost hope in the future. president juncker, you speak often because you are a man of great culture about the history of our european continent. i too believe that history is important and i believe that we should learn from the mistakes of the past few years, from the mistakes that have led us to this crisis. the first mistake is an old one, the same as the crisis of 1929, and it is called austerity. in the face of a crisis of demand, we should have boosted investment, which is a source of growth. in the face of new poverty, we should have reformed and supported our social protection systems. instead, in the name of an accounting vision, investment has been cut, social spending has been reduced and the growth potential of our economies has been reduced. no one wants to distribute public spending indiscriminately, on welfare. but the right balance must be struck between consolidating public finances and supporting far-reaching investment. some people seem to be obsessed with getting their public accounts in order. but i ask myself and i ask you: where is the order when one in two young people is unemployed? where is the order when the poverty rate is growing at an exponential rate? is the order of public accounts more important or the order of society, the order of our lives? the great lesson of this crisis is that the rules - you said so in your report - all the rules, including the budgetary rules, must be at the service of the lives of our citizens. the second lesson is that in europe we are interdependent. our societies and economies are tied together by a double thread, and the vibrations in one financial market quickly spread to other markets. the immigrants who arrive in lampedusa today are probably the outcasts of our suburbs, of the big european cities from madrid to london, to paris, to berlin, to rome. this interdependence imposes on all of us responsibilities, solidarity, and sharing. the third lesson is that we need more democracy. if we are mired in this crisis, it is also because - let us face it, president juncker - dozens and dozens of intergovernmental summits have proved inconclusive and have produced confusing and ineffective decisions. we need a stronger democracy in the european union. if we support it today, president juncker, how do we support it? it is because we think you have learned from these lessons, especially from the demand for more democracy. if you are here today, it is also because a small revolution has taken place in europe in recent weeks. for the first time since the union was founded, the president of the commission is elected by the people. this marks the advent of parliamentary democracy and is an irreversible step. if it had not been for the stubbornness and tenacity of this parliament, you, mr juncker, would probably not have been able to become president of the european commission. our vote in your favour today is not a blank cheque. we very much appreciated some of the references in your speech to social issues and the social market economy which you have very much emphasized belongs to the culture of the european socialists, democrats and progressives. but we know very well that you are not a socialist and we do not ask you to become one as a condition even if you never say never in life. we did not win the elections, your party won them and it is right that you should be the candidate for the presidency of the commission. in the coming months, when the commissioners are being heard, we will check the compatibility of our programmes with those of the future commission and we will be uncompromising. parliament's democratic control over the commission will be strengthened, the state of the union debate will no longer be an exercise in rhetoric but will become an annual political review of the commission's work. our support for you is not simply a tribute to the new parliamentary democracy. in the last few days, as you know, we have been negotiating and presenting our priorities to you, as was right. we have called for more investment to create growth, for a more social europe, for more solidarity, especially with regard to immigration. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we asked for figures and concrete commitments. you gave us the numbers and you gave us a deadline. he said 300 billion for an investment plan that creates wealth, growth and new jobs and he talked about starting in february 2015. you have cleared industrial policy, a word long considered taboo by liberals. here too, there are figures, as it is committed to bringing the share of industry in european gdp to 20% by 2020. the social europe has made clear commitments to combat social dumping by revising the directive on the posting of workers to establish the principle that the same work in the same place must be paid at the same wage. it also pledges to combat fiscal dumping by adopting a common corporate tax base at european level and by strongly supporting the financial transaction tax. your programme supports the overcoming of the troika which has done so much harm to greece and the countries receiving financial assistance. it also welcomes our request to assess the social impact of national reform programmes and renews our fight to get the anti-discrimination directive, which is now covered by unacceptable vests, passed as soon as possible. and in his program, there's also our own war horse: the refinancing and extension of the youth guarantee to as many girls and boys as possible. before the negotiations these points were not on your agenda and we are proud of these achievements and that is why we are voting for you. there is still much to be done in many other areas. we would have liked more clarity on flexibility. you merely recall the council's position on this matter. we welcome your position on the likely appointment of a socialist to the ecofin commission, but that is not enough. we will be uncompromising on flexibility. we believe that countries which are pursuing ambitious reforms and investing in knowledge and know-how should not be choked by budgetary rules which are too restrictive. we want the rules to be respected - that is clear - but to be in the service of growth. we would have liked to have had more courage on the directive on parental leave, because we must enable european women to reconcile their professional and family life. we would have liked to have had more references to environmental sustainability in our development model, which must now take care of the planet. we would like to see more attention paid to human capital, knowledge and talent, which are the real wealth of europe. we will not let our guard down. we are loyal and demanding partners, we have no right to make mistakes. if conservatism and inaction prevail, in five years we will be faced with a europe that is impoverished, frightened, divided and without a mission. that europe would be doomed to decline. we can join forces and, through our work, put europe back at the service of the message of solidarity, unity and peace for which it was born. on this road, we, from different positions and backgrounds, hold out our hand, give you confidence. it is now up to you not to betray that trust for the next five years. we'll keep a close eye on her. good luck to you, president juncker!
in writing. today, parliament elected the new commission president, jean-claude juncker, who is the face of the grand coalition of the epp, s&d and alde. in his speech, mr juncker said that he wanted to boost growth and competitiveness through investment, while respecting the strict budgetary constraints imposed by the stability pact. contradictory phrases and whistles that lend themselves to multiple interpretations: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i mean, change everything to change nothing. juncker speaks like a new european leader, wanting to imply that he has never set foot on the european political scene. it is a pity that we are facing a political dinosaur, prime minister of a tax haven like luxembourg for 18 years in a row, and president of the eurogroup from 2005 to 2013, who for a long time endorsed and carried forward the draconian austerity measures that brought the european citizens to their knees and who now, instead, says he wants to fight. which juncker should we believe? the election of juncker is just a political make-up of the grand coalition to perpetuate the status quo.
in writing. the economic formula proposed by president juncker does not meet the real needs of the european people and does not allow for a sustainable recovery. the austerity policies have proved to be utterly ineffective, especially in the long term. europe lost trading ground to other major economic players like the united states, which rightly reversed the crisis by injecting liquidity into the economic system. europe continues to strangle its peoples with suicidal economic policies which do not allow growth. the formal perfection of public accounts is still sought, at the expense of the incomes of the less well-off. in fact, it is the low-income groups that suffer the heaviest tax levies, holding back gdp growth, which would receive a huge boost if the heavy tax burden on low-income earners were eased. many economists have come out in favour of theories developed by john maynard keynes and i refer to the "principle of effective demand": a nation's level of production, its income and consequently its employment are determined by consumer demand. when the income of most of them is reduced, then countries fall into a destructive spiral.
in writing. the fate of europe united with juncker at the helm of the commission is at stake. we need a radical change of course from austerity and austerity policies, not the continuation of a failed policy, where people find themselves stripped of their wealth, traditions and rights in the name of a greedy market too big to fail. states must be able to respond by proposing multiannual economic plans based on public spending on productive investment in the real economy. that is why we must take political action to ease budgetary constraints and to force the banks to put money into the pockets of the citizens and not into the pockets of financial speculators. unfortunately, the monetary measures taken by the ecb with the tltros will not resolve the situation. the regulation of 3 july on refinancing operations does not impose any effective obligations on how the money required by this liquidity provision should be lent and banks will easily maintain the established benchmarks by investing a very large part of these billions in the financial speculative circuit. the unchanging policies of austerity and the lack of cooperation of private banks portend a further deterioration of national internal markets, bankruptcies, increased unemployment, poverty, social tension until the very likely victory of nationalisms.
in writing. today we heard in this chamber the speech of the nominee to head the european commission, jean-claude juncker. a choice made at the table by political agreements between the popular party and the socialists, who have decided to continue sharing power as they please. it is true that juncker was the candidate proposed by the european people's party, the main political expression of the european elections on 25 may. however, his appointment was decided and formalised only after a very precise agreement with the socialists, who were confirmed as the president of the european parliament in the unshakable figure of martin schulz. the guarantee of this agreement will be the continuation of the policies undertaken in recent years, which have clearly shown all their criticisms and failures, but which in brussels and strasbourg they pretend not to see. we are dealing here with the craftsmen of european politics, people who have played key roles in recent years. the results are in plain sight, yet the error is persisted in. i like to judge people by their work, so perhaps juncker will make a good president of the european commission. i hope so, for everyone's sake, but i'm not particularly convinced.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the wave of violence which continues to affect the ukrainian people, such as the pogrom in odessa, requires us to reflect on the legitimacy and the real capacity of the government of poroshenko and his ministers. we wonder how much of this tragedy is not the result of western strategic and commercial interests linked to the transit of russian gas and the ukrainian shell gas fields which too many hands would like to exploit without hindrance and without regard for the economic, human and environmental costs. europe cannot afford a conflict over energy resources right on its borders, for ethical reasons and because these resources are still in the economic form of russia in such abundance that it gives europe the time it needs to become independent of fossil fuels. we therefore consider that the association agreement signed with ukraine was a premature and imprudent step and we ask that europe remain as neutral as possible and that it use all possible means to send independent observers to ascertain the responsibility and the real initiators of this bloody civil war with unforeseeable consequences.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, citizens, as a spokesman for the five star movement and a member of the efdd group, i have a simple question for the commission: commissioner, what is ttip really? this is not just a free trade agreement. the customs duties between europe and the united states are already very low. it is a tool for removing barriers to free trade. these barriers are: the rights that our workers have won after generations of struggle; environmental regulations that limit pollution; food safety regulations, the same rules that protect us from gmo food and hormone-treated meat; european laws that ban harmful chemicals; and finally our privacy, the protection of our personal data. the commission has repeatedly stated, commissioner, that the negotiation process is transparent and open. even now they're discussing it, there's no secret. i would like to say that i am very pleased with the way in which the commission has dealt with this matter. it's true, there are no secrets. but there's no secret to lobby groups and big corporate lawyers. the real access to documents is impossible for european citizens, it is impossible for members of parliament and it is impossible for me as a member of the committee on international trade. i ask again why these documents are kept secret and why a process which should have been inclusive from the beginning is instead becoming more exclusive and secretive. gentlemen, what's at stake here is not just an economic agreement but the very concept of democracy. i wonder what idea of democracy and inclusion europe is trying to achieve. is this the same idea that inspired most of the political parties sitting in this parliament when they refused any presidency and vice-presidency to members of my political group, thus excluding more than 10 million citizens from key roles in parliament? ladies and gentlemen, for the sake of all europeans, i hope not! (the speaker agrees to answer a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
the rapporteur. i have been here for about 15 days and i have asked for these documents which no one has been able to obtain. when we get this far in the negotiations, what are we still waiting for? i think it would be appropriate for us to know what has been discussed so far. (the speaker agrees to answer a question with a blue card (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, we do not trust you, we do not trust you! five years of trade policy by this commission has led to disaster. the textile deal with pakistan has shut down thousands of companies; the agreement with morocco on fruit and vegetables and fisheries has harmed thousands of fishermen and farmers. the agreement with burma for rice is bringing tons of fake rice to our children's tables. and then the brilliantly conducted negotiations with india, with vietnam, with korea, with japan, with colombia: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. why should it change with the united states, which is also much smarter than us? the u.s. protects its trademarks, it has made in, it has tariffs. your european commission, the commission of the bureaucrats in brussels, does not protect what is produced in europe. every year, in italy, we have a billion euros in damages for fake italian wine sold as italian. we have three billion euros in damages for oil, cheese and fake food products sold as italian in the united states. what is there in this text to defend this work, this history, this origin, this future, this tradition? i didn't see anything. so, as far as i am concerned, either this text changes completely or the northern league will vote against it from the first to the last line.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it seems clear to us, also from the debate this afternoon, that the debate on ttip is a measure of the quality of democracy in the european union. we have reached the sixth round of negotiations and the negotiation is essentially in its real terms hidden from the citizens, hidden from the members of this parliament. commissioner de gucht himself has spoken to us about a room reserved for reading only. decisions of such an impact on people's lives cannot be taken without information and consent. and that's one of the reasons why we say, stop ttip now! we ask, commissioner, whether you feel bound by the outcome of the public consultation on isds or whether we are talking about a sham transparency. we want full transparency on the mandate and the actors in this negotiation and sovereignty of decision for european citizens. but there are also many questions of merit. this treaty establishes a single law, a single rule, that of the market, and abolishes in practice the others, those which defend food safety, labour rights, the environment, agricultural production, privacy, personal data banks, the public nature of the institutions which must guarantee the right to health and education. legislation on this parliamentary matter is being taken away from democratically elected parliaments and submitted to an arbitral tribunal. popular sovereignty is subordinated to the freedom of enterprise. we are talking about employment benefits, but what benefits are we talking about? precarious work, unpaid work. you defend the frontiers with frontex against the people and you abolish them just to create a single market. we are very determined to defend not borders but the rights of people. that is why we are calling for ttip to be stopped immediately.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, you have so far imposed on us treaties which deviate from the spirit of a europe of citizens united in solidarity. this is for the use and consumption of the banks and you privileged few bureaucrats. and now, under the pretext of a hypothetical uniformity of regulations, you want to impose a new treaty on us, ttip, which will do away with the precautionary principle that has prevailed so far to protect the health and well-being of us european citizens. we're going to be forced to eat hormone-laced gmo foods, full of antibiotics and toxic pesticides. the controlled certification of origin will be abolished, thus destroying the heritage of the agricultural and food excellence of our countries. the monopoly and genetic uniformity of seeds by multinational corporations will compromise the biodiversity vital to sustainable agriculture. mr president, how far do you want to hurt us citizens to guarantee billions in profits to a few money-hungry multinationals?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we must avoid at all costs that the debate on ttip becomes more and more ideological, as is unfortunately happening. if we are motivated by the desire to progress as a society, we must face the arduous task of constantly being in touch with reality. and that is why it is essential that we move in the direction of ever greater transparency and ever greater involvement with the citizens. but if we really want europe to be characterized by jobs and growth from now on, we cannot think that this can be achieved by internal policies within the european union alone. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are not undermined by the excessive deficit. that's our job. we can and must use this opportunity to proudly export the most valuable thing we have built over the years: a social model that includes social protection and workers' rights, consumer safety and health, sustainable growth. one point remains essential with regard to our role and what we represent. we are here to demonstrate how cultural diversity, specificity and excellence are sources of great wealth. we therefore insist that the fight against unfair competition and counterfeiting be our priority in order to protect geographical indications and intellectual property. today, a new phase in european history has opened with the appointment of president juncker. the ttip treaty can be a test bed. we want an agreement, not at any cost but with respect for non-negotiable values.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, if i were to assess the measures taken at this stage, i would think that they would not contribute to the objective of safeguarding all the issues that have been dealt with. it would be a disaster, with a clear objective and strategy, to undermine europe, to make european democracy meaningless. i hope and believe that this is not the case, mr president. i hope that there will be work, because our aim is to safeguard the economic, strategic and central backbone of what is called the european small and medium-sized enterprise. i believe that trade barriers and regulations are now giving an advantage to the state and, under the present rules, only and exclusively to the multinationals which can achieve the best profit conditions and can achieve the best profit conditions, without worrying at all about transparency in terms of information, as we are today firmly demanding that this should happen.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the negotiations currently under way with the united states for the creation of a transatlantic free trade area represent a great opportunity for greater integration and economic growth. greater liberalisation of trade in goods and services, the removal of non-tariff barriers and greater regulatory convergence will certainly boost productivity and help to overcome the economic crisis by creating new jobs in europe. the negotiations must, however, lead to a balanced final agreement in which the new opportunities for a european production system looking for new markets are not squandered by sacrificing the quality of 'made in europe' and the principles of our social model. in particular, the defence of our food safety standards and the full exploitation of the european system of geographical indications, the safeguard of quality european production, will be a key factor in determining whether ttip will be a real opportunity or a missed opportunity for the european union. we should on the one hand guarantee the citizens in this respect, by defending the precautionary principle and the rights of consumers, and on the other hand support the european production system based on small and mediumsized enterprises, choosing to embark on the path of growth and recovery by defending quality european agri-food production.
question for the blue card. i am sorry to disagree with my colleague corazza bildt on one point, but i would like to point out that europe has already had a long tradition of legislation on this subject. it is enough to remember that the current directive on parental leave has been in existence since 1992. the problem is to update it against data that has been outdated. it is enough to remember that the 1992 directive provides for a minimum period of 14 weeks. we are not going to be able to do that.
i have listened carefully to the words of the under-secretary, mr sandro gozi, and as rapporteur on this measure on maternity leave, i feel i can express my satisfaction at the clear commitment of the italian presidency to seriously pursue the discussion on this fundamental measure. the legislative period which has just begun gives us a great opportunity to make these five years the years in which europe rises again and becomes a beacon of civilization and growth. we have a great responsibility: the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe, and it has been a great help to the people of europe. but to do this, to build a europe of hope, capable of looking to the future with optimism, women must be given the opportunity to have a profound impact on our economies, without having to choose between having a job or having a child, between building the present or imagining the future, and we must have a sign of great discontinuity with the past, that of having succeeded in having here in the house a clear commitment on our part on the maternity leave directive. how could we have explained to the european citizens that after years of discussion, after six years of organising workshops, seminars, conferences and debates on this directive, the best solution we had found was to postpone everything once again to the date it was due? we can't wait any longer. europe must also change course in response to social and economic emergencies, such as women's employment and the gender pay gap, which are directly linked to the reconciliation of time between motherhood and work. a europe that invests in women and their work is a europe that grows economically. it does not change the fact that in europe women are still paid 25% less than men for the same work. but there will be no developed europe as long as the typical manager of a public or private company is a man over 50. a country in which women are entrepreneurs, investors and wealth creators is a country destined to grow and renew itself continuously, because when women work, the entire economy smiles with them. i am a woman and, like many women, i am much more concerned with practical results than with ideological preconceptions. i am glad that the new commission president, mr juncker, has explicitly stated his commitment to the maternity leave directive and i am proud that this legislature has opened with the presidency of the council chaired by the italian government, which has made gender balance the priority of its political and educational action. let us then sit down and continue the debate as quickly as possible, because it is the citizens of europe who are asking us to do so. as rapporteur on this subject, together with the femm committee and with all of you, i will be listening carefully and mediating because it is clear that in the european context the sensibilities, traditions and starting points of individual countries are very different, but i believe deeply that the time is ripe for a cultural revolution that will translate into gdp points, all those that women will produce when they are no longer forced to choose between work and children. (the president agreed to answer a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question blue card. because i believe that investing in work and investing above all in services for women and families, investing in a time when even today all the work of care, growth and assistance is placed on the shoulders of women, who for these reasons suffer from slowdowns and renunciations also from the point of view of work, professional and affirmation, is above all a cultural growth and dignity. but this will certainly also make the states grow economically, because it is proven that when the gross domestic product of individual states is invested in women's work ... (the president interrupts the speaker)
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the need for a new directive is even more urgent than it was six years ago because there are too many inequalities in europe between pregnant women, but also between newborn babies and working mothers, for reasons of health, safety, forms of reconciliation, also because of the economic crisis. i would remind you that a directive is needed precisely to define minimum standards which national legislation can certainly supplement and improve, but also to ensure that situations in which women are treated with a standard of dignity are better protected in europe. i think we know perfectly well that this kind of approach, which sees the reconciliation and support of maternal health and also a possibility of conceiving a right to fatherhood and motherhood more serenely, is also an element of social growth and not just of the person. i therefore believe that at this stage, with this crisis and within a new course that europe must take, mr commissioner, to withdraw this text has a double negative value and is a politically inappropriate gesture, as mr gozi has rightly said, but also a gesture that seems to go in the opposite direction to the attempt to create a more social europe and more attentive to the value of the person. i therefore ask the italian presidency to take the initiative that i thought i was getting from your words to the end because parliament is prepared to find a ground for mediation.
in writing. due to the economic crisis, the birth rate within the european union has started to decline again, as has the level of female employment: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. it is therefore absolutely necessary that the commission and the council reconsider the decision to apply refit to this draft directive. now more than ever we need to strengthen the rights not only to maternity but to parenting in general, an innovation which this text brings with the introduction of two weeks of compulsory paternity leave. the european union is much more than a series of economic agreements and must be based on the protection and extension of fundamental rights and freedoms. this is an opportunity to put these declarations into practice and to demonstrate the seriousness of our intentions. we must find the pragmatic solutions, not the ideological ones, that will enable us to take a step forward. all the citizens of europe are watching us and we cannot afford to let them down.
president of the council. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, as you said, the high representative and vice-president ashton is in vienna for negotiations on iran and i am therefore pleased to speak on behalf of the council on this subject. the destruction of syria's chemical weapons stockpile has already produced results. results that have been materialized in the removal of chemical weapons components from syria. we, as the presidency of the european union, are speaking for information only, because the union has contributed at budgetary level, but this is an operation carried out by 28 european states, which are also members of the european union, and not, as regards the majority of decisions on operations, by the european union as such. but it is certainly very important to discuss and inform you this evening on this subject. it is certainly important also because it is a fundamental objective to ensure security in our neighbourhood as the european union. the plan for the destruction of the syrian chemical weapons we are talking about was designed, it was intended, it was outlined under the control of the organization for the prohibition of chemical weapons and the united nations and the world health organization and the united nations environment programme also contributed to the operation. of course, in this organization the 28 member states of the european union have actively participated in the decisions of the operations. joint planning by the organization for the prohibition of chemical weapons and the united nations concluded that hydrolysis of the chemical weapons aboard the american ship cape ray was the best solution under the circumstances. the american ship is simply used as a platform, where the hydrolysis operations have to take place. it is a process that basically consists of dissolving chemical components through various salts, and it is a method that has been used by the united states for many years to destroy its stockpiles of chemical weapons. the planning was made public, as were the decisions of the organisation for the prohibition of chemical weapons through its executive committee. a mission between the opcw and the united nations also organised two major briefing events, one on board the cape ray ship, to explain to leading environmental ngos and the international media how the operations to remove first syria's chemical weapons and then destroy them were conducted in full compliance with national laws and international regulations. it's a process that has been used successfully in the case of libya before. all measures taken by the two organisations to ensure the safety of operations and to ensure environmental safety were also indicated. the european union, for its part, is aware of the international importance of this effort. it has been at the forefront of this operation from the very beginning, as far as it could contribute, and did so in the initial stages through a contribution of eur 5 million to start the activities of the joint mission and later also contributed to the special trust fund of the organisation for the prohibition of chemical weapons with another eur 12 million, precisely intended to finance the destruction of weapons. these are the only contributions legally made by the european union as such. of course, many other member states of the european union have also made important financial contributions and also important contributions in kind, which i would like to mention. the presidency of the council would like to express its particular appreciation to denmark, which together with norway has contributed commercial vessels to the operations, and also to denmark and the united kingdom for also having provided the military supplies needed for the arms-removal operations. italy has made the port of gioia tauro available for the transport of a part, the most important part of these chemicals, the so-called 'priority 1's, on board the american ship cape ray. this was an essential part of the destruction process. three other member states finland, germany and the united kingdom have also confirmed that they are willing and able to contribute to the destruction of further chemical weapons by making their civilian facilities available. we also want to express our thanks and appreciation to the director-general of the organisation for the prohibition of chemical weapons and the united nations special coordinator and their teams for the truly outstanding work and commitment they have shown throughout this operation. we believe it was only natural that the organisation for the prohibition of chemical weapons should receive the nobel peace prize in 2013 precisely for its contribution to this operation and to world peace and security. the operations will soon be completed and so the member states of the union and also, at least in part, the union itself will have made an important and practical contribution to reducing some of the suffering in syria and to contributing to a potential peace on which we certainly still have a great deal to do in the days and weeks ahead.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i support the request by under-secretary gozi to obtain the clarification and transparency to which the communities of the member states are entitled in terms of information. in addition to the useful clarifications which have just been given by mr gozi, i have had the opportunity to receive further technical information from mr galletti, who has personally followed many of these operations, particularly as regards the technical and scientific methods used to carry out the hydrolysis mentioned on board the american ship. however, there is a strong concern, especially among the italian and greek populations. i am thinking, as regards my country, italy, of the people of calabria and sicily, in terms of guaranteeing the right to information and transparency which the international order guarantees to the people involved in disarmament and operations such as this. some reports and comments have been made, which, perhaps provocatively, have called into question the actual peacekeeping nature of the operation under way and have raised the question of whether it is not rather a position taken within the framework of the atlantic alliance between the united states and the russian federation. the question therefore is what the actual political role of the government has been in this operation and what my willingness is to join with my country in the concerns of the communities involved and the need therefore for the member states to be guaranteed the full right to information, security and transparency which the rules grant them.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to point out to everyone that the disposal of chemical weapons by hydrolysis at sea, not on land, is a completely new practice, which has no previous experience as a reference. scientific experience, but also any common lived experience, teaches us that at the beginning of any practice one runs the greatest risks of failure. so where's the accident procedure? what are the evacuation plans in case of an environmental emergency? why was the public not informed of this? i say this because in this case the greek people and the people of southern italy are taking the risks mentioned above - as usual - with particular reference to calabria, puglia and sicily. all these peoples are already united by a common state of extreme poverty. all these people are also united by exposure to a myriad of other risk factors arising from the legal and illegal disposal of toxic waste, the spread of various types of landfills on the territory, all forms of legal and illegal incineration, oil and gas extraction practices both offshore and on land. we would never want to see a model emerge in which the poorest regions of europe are therefore destined to be guinea pigs, taking the greatest risks to their own health and to the health of their children. and so, in conclusion, these people are watching you. these people are becoming more and more informed and more and more aware of what is happening around them. so don't be surprised if this model of europe starts to falter. these people will eventually hold you accountable for this and they will do so in the face of history.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i do not have the right to speak, as my colleagues have done, for or against lithuania adopting the euro. i don't think that's a choice i have to make as an italian citizen. i am rather concerned that the lithuanian people have not been given the choice of whether or not to join the single currency. as indicated in the report discussed in committee, the polls show a clear opposition on the part of lithuanians to the introduction of the euro. however, the political leadership has once again deliberately ignored popular opinion. the five star movement is for direct democracy and believes it is essential that such important decisions should be made by the people. in a democracy, the people are sovereign. i wonder why there was no referendum to ask the lithuanian people what they thought about joining the euro. why are the european institutions once again failing to take account of the will of the citizens they claim to represent? you can't ignore the will of the people for such important choices. there is a tool that gives voice to citizens and their will: it is the popular referendum, let's use it and make it institutional. i would like to end by reminding you all that if you are aware of the strength and value of your proposals and ideas, you need not fear the popular opinion. otherwise, it means you're afraid, or worse, you have something to hide.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, without going into too much detail, and with reference to development and the fight against unemployment, i must point out that, from 2008 to the present, the cohesion policies adopted by the european union have failed to achieve their objectives. they have failed in the mediterranean countries, they have failed in italy. more than 25 million men and women in europe are out of work. three million in italy, 43% of whom are young people. i also met young people last saturday in terni who are risking their jobs because of the excesses of the 'we are facing immediately the conflict between the protection of health and the environment on the one hand and the needs of employment and production on the other. the cry of despair of millions of young europeans must be heard loudly in this assembly. the structural funds have not delivered the results hoped for. geographical and occupational mobility remain a pipe dream. the only mobility is that of millions of people driven by despair. resources end up in the hands of inadequate local politicians. resources must go to the companies, to the fabric of production, to the real economy. we must put an end to employment policies which make precariousness an absolute value. the pension policies of accountants with one single concern must be curtailed: i'm going to settle the score.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in italy there are 10 million 48 thousand people living in poverty. over 6 million are extremely poor, people who cannot afford to buy goods and services to live a decent life. these figures would be sufficient to understand the dramatic situation in which millions of italians live. but it's not enough. in italy there are 3.200,000 unemployed, and 700,000 of them are young people aged 15 to 24. and do you know what juncker said, the man who just yesterday became president of the european commission? he said that unemployment in italy is the fault of the italians. no, my colleagues! the problems of the italian unemployed, of european citizens, especially young people, are born here! they are born of this europe that is not going well! they are the result of the failure of the single market and the failure of the euro. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation of the unemployed. enough of this europe of banks and enemies of the people. your president juncker, the one you voted for, said yesterday that we need new migrants. we need 50 million migrants because we need labour, we need labour. but does juncker know that there are 25 million unemployed in europe? do you know that in europe a quarter of young people can't find a job? we don't need any more migrants. the job market is saturated. there is no room for a single migrant if there is no work for our young people. we must help our young people. we must give our young people hope and a future. young europeans need another europe, one that is more efficient and more just.
question for the blue card. i'm part of the five star movement. i would like to say that a lot of talk is made about young people and a lot of money is invested, but no one ever checks carefully where this money has gone. in my country, and particularly in my region, sardinia, a lot of money has been misused in training courses, and it has ended up in the hands of a few people who have cheated and stolen this money, and the european community has never investigated, and if it has investigated it has always turned a blind eye. i would like to draw attention to this.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, given the short time available, i would like to express only two ideas. first of all, i am very pleased to note that the youth guarantee is a reality, a measure which has been taken on the initiative of my party, the party of european socialists, and yes, the young socialists of europe. for this achievement we must also thank commissioner andor, who has been working in a difficult context for this measure. i therefore ask the commission to strengthen the monitoring instruments for the implementation of the youth guarantee in the member states. we cannot accept that what has been so laboriously achieved at european level should then become bogged down at the level of implementation. it is a luxury that young people in europe cannot afford. as other colleagues have said, i also believe it is essential to widen the available resource base and to gradually - as i should also say that juncker said yesterday - extend the guarantee to 30 years. the second point i want to make is that young people in europe are certainly the most mobile generation and it is therefore important to complete the mobility of the workforce, all the more so for young people because it is a basic condition for the functioning of the single market. in the light of this, i ask the new commission - and i hope that the new commission will be able to discuss this again in the future - to promote new measures to support the mobility of young european workers, for example in relation to pension rights. my experience as a young european is that we build a fairer and more united europe by giving young europeans the chance to work across europe by connecting them and giving them the chance to find a job and to have hope for a better future. the commission has a huge responsibility, as does parliament.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner andor, yesterday president juncker announced his intention to extend the target of young people and the youth guarantee to 30 years of age, which, i would remind you, is already being provided for in italy with additional funds, and i am also pleased that one of the two plans already approved by the european commission is that of our country. i would like to reassure you that the turin summit on youth employment was only postponed to have the new commission in full office. but the unemployment rate is rising among young people, and so we need to address two main challenges. the first is that the youth guarantee, with its 6 billion, should increase to at least 21 in the next few years, as we have already asked, and that it should not only be a response aimed at a specific target group of young people, namely the training, apprenticeship and employment guidance chain, but also an opportunity for the member states to reorganize the network of services, opportunities and incentives and the reform of apprenticeship, including higher education, that is, it should become a new active employment policy. secondly, this is not enough if two big questions are not raised: the dual system of vocational and technical education and training and investment in strategic sectors at both european and national level, also knowing that this must be coordinated with cohesion policies under horizon and with education and training.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have appreciated the youth programme and we were among the first in italy to approve it. but it must not be a system that feeds itself, for example only funds that can go to the establishment of computer platforms. it must go directly to the young people, there must be checks such as a bonus-malus for the regions which actually use the funds to create jobs. i ask mr andors if he does not think, having already heard it in the committee on employment in the senate, that the public network should be implemented with the private network.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to ask the commissioner if he really believes that the problem of unemployment can be solved by reforms. because, in my opinion, this process turns work into a continuous blackmail and does not give people the opportunity to face life with long-term plans, fueling a greedy and exclusive system in our society where wealth is concentrated to those who exploit work.
i invite you to use words appropriate to this house, thank you. before i speak, i would like to ask the house to be silent. we are at the end of a very important debate.
i would like to ask the commissioner whether he has not already made a statement on the matter, and if so, what action does he intend to take? (end of the 'catch-the-eye' procedure)
member of the commission. - mr president, honourable members, i would like to thank everyone who contributed to this discussion and especially those who were speaking for the first time in this house. because the time is short and the discussion itself was quite long, i will try to be brief but also concrete. i agree with everyone who stressed that the european union needs to do more for economic growth and job creation overall, not only focusing on the young generation but on the entire labour market. however, we have reasons, strong reasons, to develop measures and reforms targeted at the young generation, improving school-to-work transitions in the european union, because young people have been disproportionately hit by the consequences of the financial and economic crisis, and as is well known the youth unemployment rate is more than twice as high as the overall unemployment rate in the european union. but our starting point is that europe indeed is quite diverse. it is also very imbalanced. there are some countries which have been performing quite well and we have to help others learn from the good performers – this expression has been used widely in this discussion, including by mr arnott. indeed the good examples of austria, germany and other countries where there is not such a great gap between the overall unemployment level and the youth unemployment rate need to be studied and if possible taken over. this applies to the various forms of dual training, apprenticeship models, but also how the public employment services function in these countries, and i strongly believe that good social dialogue and social partnership also contribute to finding the right solutions and the right ways forward. the youth guarantee is not a one-size-fits-all policy. the eu agreed on some key principles and parameters which can be delivered if the financial backing is also provided. but the member states themselves are developing their own national youth guarantee schemes in close cooperation with the commission, and also paying attention to each other. questions have been raised concerning specific countries, such as spain or italy where the situation is indeed much more serious than in some other cases. the commission is paying close attention to these countries. i myself before the end of this week will be going to italy to attend the informal council and next week once more to spain, and these missions allow for comparing notes with the governments about progress with the implementation of the youth guarantee. this implementation does not entirely depend on the eur 6 billion financial instrument, because this is a top-up fund to supplement the european social fund resources and the national resources that also have to be used. almost all countries are still spending the esf allocations of the previous period that ended last december. so because of the financial factor there are no delays. in fact those who have any kind of questions were given a good explanation of how to use these financial resources in march, which all the ministers received, and some countries take advantage of the european investment bank bridging finance facility to accelerate funding to youth-related measures. this is of course not sufficient if we look at the very severe imbalances inside the eurozone. i agree with those who stressed that there is indeed a link between the emu imbalances, and that is why we do not just have to monitor these imbalances through a scoreboard which includes youth unemployment and inactivity, but also to continue working on emu reform and consider options for counter-cyclical fiscal capacity. this is what the council will also discuss later this week in an informal setting in milan – what options exist. the age limit has been discussed. member states – and this needs to be known – member states are allowed to go to 30 years if they opt for this. however, the commission has been encouraging all these member states first of all to focus on the generational cohorts under 25, to introduce the measures – very important reform measures – to support and improve school-to-work transitions, whether on the education and training side or on the labour market side. and once this is successful for under-25s obviously there should be no reason to refrain from going to a higher age bracket. this is not only a supply-side question – this is my answer to mr schwab. skills are very important. supply-side measures are important but the youth guarantee also has to be able to intervene on the side of the demand for labour and supplement the missing demand in many cases, especially at a time of recession. the commission has been working very closely with the member states and also checking how the funds are used and how the reforms are prepared. it is not only a matter of personal visits which i made in pilot cases in the city of évora in portugal, or ballymun in ireland, or the extremadura region in spain where there is a regional youth guarantee scheme already in place. we also use the european semester to assess and provide feedback to the member states and we cooperate with the ilo and the oecd which are also involved in technical advice. it is true that the turin meeting of heads of state and government has been postponed but the italian presidency keeps youth employment and the youth guarantee among its priorities and the attention of the heads of state and government remains very important. so the youth guarantee is a major flagship initiative. the commission is working with the member states and other stakeholders to implement it, but this is of course not a substitute for the right macroeconomic policies or industrial policies which will help generate economic growth and jobs in the eu.
the motions for resolutions to be tabled pursuant to rule 123 (2) of the rules of procedure will be notified subsequently. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 17 july 2014. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. the 'youth guarantee' introduced by the european parliament is certainly an important step forward in the fight against youth unemployment, but it is aimed at unemployed young people under the age of 25. as an italian mep i cannot help but point out the terrible emergency my country is experiencing with regard to unemployment among young people up to 30 years of age and even beyond. but not only in italy, there are about 6.8 million young people aged 25 to 30 who are not in employment, education or training in europe. it is clear that the solution to the problem of unemployment cannot come from the 'youth guarantee' alone. the member states must take steps to reduce their own bureaucracy, which prevents the creativity of selfemployed workers and small and mediumsized enterprises from growing and developing. tax policy must be lightened. young people must be able to lead a life of dignity and autonomy, with work that provides them with stability and security, a decent wage and social protection. only then will they be able to leave the family of origin, which is now the last and only support for unemployed young people.
in writing. unemployment in europe is a major concern for most eu governments. it is not only very "heavy" from a social and economic point of view, but also frustrating and demeaning in that it places people in a position of inferiority and unfitness. the dramatic nature of the situation is shown by the figures repeatedly cited in the debate, in particular those relating to youth unemployment, which is 23% in europe and 43% in italy. three points to consider: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. at the moment, the recovery of youth unemployment seems far off. investment in schools, vocational training, universities and research is needed to facilitate the meeting of demand and supply of labour, particularly where innovation is required and, at the same time, dropout and absenteeism are to be tackled more effectively. if unemployment creates poverty and poverty is no longer a temporary and cyclical phenomenon, social inequalities will widen and the fundamental rights of citizens will be undermined, with the result that structural changes will take hold. this requires major political choices and the mobilization of all cultural, social and business forces.
the next item is the vote on the motion for a resolution (doc. (for the results of the votes and other relevant details, see minutes)
that concludes the voting.
in writing. - i did not intend to support the langen report analysing the adoption of the euro by lithuania. the extension of the eurozone to this country, as of 1 january 2015, will not benefit its economy at all. we shall soon have a new state brought to its knees by the mad economic choice of the single currency.
in writing. - i vote against it. the euro has unfortunately already shown its harmful effects on the economies of the various countries of the euro area in general and in several very serious cases (greece, spain, portugal, ireland, italy, cyprus). a currency based solely on the german economy (germany was the only country to benefit from it), responsible for the recession, the fall in exports, the increase in the unemployment rate and an unprecedented impoverishment of the lower middle classes of the european population. now, with lithuania adopting the euro, the crisis will only spread to that country.
in writing. - in its resolution adopted today, parliament voted in favour of lithuania joining the euro area on 1 january 2015. i welcomed the fact that lithuania fulfilled all the euro eligibility criteria: the recent average annual inflation of 0,6% (well below the reference value of 1,7%); a government deficit of 2,1% of gdp in 2013 (reference value of 3%) and a gross debt ratio of 39,4% of gdp (well below the 60% reference value). all this shows that intensive work has been carried out by lithuania since 2006. lithuania is about to become the 19th member of the euro area, following latvia (2014), estonia (2011), slovakia (2009), cyprus and malta (2008), slovenia (2007), greece (2001), and belgium, germany, france, ireland, spain, italy, luxembourg, the netherlands, austria, portugal and finland (1999). welcome to the euro area, lithuania!
in writing. - i have just arrived in the european parliament and i was genuinely surprised to find myself voting for this report. in italy, there is debate about the validity of the choice made at the time to join the euro, and in other countries there is an effort to meet the parameters required to be able to join this monetary system. it is a sobering fact, combining rudimentary economic policy considerations with deeper assessments of the factors that determine the competitiveness of our enterprises. however, these assessments add to my political experience. on the substance of the proposal, i have chosen to accept the request made by lithuania and, after assessing the consequences for my country (limited to the governance of the european central bank, therefore without impact on italian companies), i have decided to vote in favour.
the vote will be taken at the next voting time.
the content of mr korwin-mikke's speech this morning was very serious. the words you have spoken here offend the dignity of this place, the dignity of this parliament and the spirit of the union. his words violate the principles laid down in rule 11 (2) of parliament's rules of procedure. his words have not only offended people like me, who have a different skin color, but all of us here who are animated by the values that are the foundation of these institutions, the values of equality and the dignity of every person. i therefore ask that appropriate sanctions be applied for this type of behaviour. the words spoken here have weight and that is why a strong fight against all forms of discrimination and racism must be launched from this place.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i was taught from childhood that if you make commitments, you must keep them. it is therefore absolutely unacceptable not to honour what is due. the five star movement is ready to support all the measures needed to get out of this situation, starting with the next amending budgets. i want to make one thing very clear: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i have here a joint statement by the european parliament, the council and the commission on the implementation of the 2002 budget. 2002, you got it, way over 10 years ago! the declaration deplored the serious situation of payments and called for measures to reverse this dangerous trend. the hopes have unfortunately remained as they are, as happens all too often, and we are still here discussing this problem, which is even more serious and more dramatic today than in the past. i would ask the commission: how did this huge hole in payments get created? in the past, it may have been the choice to pursue this or that particular interest without thinking of specific, well-defined priorities which must necessarily take account of the difficult reality of the facts and especially of the accounts. it is curious that my compatriot della vedova is in the chamber today, leading the council. we italians cannot lecture anyone in this area, because we are well aware of the enormous problem of paying off the debts of the public administration. the european union has also recently opened an infringement procedure against italy for this very reason. let me say, mr president, that we are in a rather paradoxical situation. italy is now preparing to lead the european union at a time when the latter is facing a huge problem in payments. the european union itself, however, sanctions those who lead it because it does not pay. we are therefore wondering how this matter can be resolved, because, to be honest, we are a little confused.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the situation we are discussing today is not the result of extraordinary events, it is not the result of unforeseeable events. we are talking, mr president, about a non-emergency which has been created by a tradition, a meaningless tradition which the council, under pressure from some of its members, has carried on for some years, despite the fact that parliament and the commission have always been opposed. this is something that we should be reiterating today. we cannot but stress here today that the constant reduction in the level of payments, as has been pointed out many times in this house, is to the detriment of the citizens and not to their benefit. every euro taken from the european union is a euro taken from research, a euro taken from education, small businesses, agriculture, innovation, cooperation and research, and that is why the commitments which the member states make in brussels must be honoured, out of respect for other countries, of course, but above all out of respect for the citizens, out of respect for those who, with the support of the european union, are trying to get the economy of our continent back on track. i would like to remind you once again that the union budget is an extraordinary and formidable instrument for investment. the investments which, without it, the member states would never be able to finance. and unfortunately the recent negotiation of the multiannual financial framework has reduced the overall amount compared to the previous period, and this has happened for the first time in the history of the union. our budget in times of crisis has unfortunately not been used to boost the economy. it was not used to boost employment, but wrong logics prevailed of ... (the president interrupts the speaker)
member of the commission. - mr president, some members have asked how we reached this situation. i think the reason for today’s situation is clear: starting from a few years ago, it is a result of budgetary negotiations which provided payment appropriations at such an artificially low level, so low that it prevented us from being able to pay legitimate bills. this must be stopped and it can be stopped, provided that the commission proposals for the draft amending budget for 2014 and the draft budget for 2015 are adopted by the budgetary authority as proposed. what the commission asked for is observance of the agreement on the multiannual financial framework. that means the possibility to use payment appropriations at the level of agreed ceilings, and the possibility to make full use of flexibility mechanisms. if we do not stabilise the situation now in 2014 and 2015, then it is indeed going to be difficult to have a sustainable budget in later years. we cannot afford to kick the can down the road again and again. we cannot accumulate unpaid bills. this is why the commission proposed the three draft amending budgets for 2014, including a contingency margin, and a draft budget for 2015 at the ceiling level. this is the call for today: to stop the snowball effect. the commission is indeed concerned by the position that the council is taking in relation to payments, but it hopes that negotiations will allow for common ground to be found, to provide the financial means to fulfil the union’s legal obligations in 2014 and 2015. the commission will continue to monitor closely the overall situation, and budget implementation, and will provide all necessary information to parliament and the council. it stands, of course, ready to participate actively in any interinstitutional meeting to take stock with a view to addressing outstanding needs. the commission counts on the commitment of both the council and parliament to work constructively in a continuing dialogue on payments, with the objectives of addressing the 2014 payment shortages and avoiding the recurrence of artificial under-budgeting in 2015 and the following years. this is necessary. otherwise, we put the credibility of the eu at risk, and we have to avoid that.
president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i have listened carefully to your speeches and i hope that a solution can be found, as the italian presidency intends, without polarizing positions. we are not discussing whether the expenditure that has been planned is appropriate or not, and of course it has a legal basis, we are discussing how to avoid a phenomenon which is true in our country and which we have been trying to solve for some years, namely the problem of late payments. as i said in my introductory remarks, this is a different approach to the management of the annual budget. the creation of margins below the budgetary ceilings does not mean that we are trying to avoid the related expenditure. i agree with the commissioner that the new multiannual financial framework gives us room for manoeuvre and the tools to deal with unforeseen needs. however, these must be managed in such a way that the request for payment appropriations does not conflict with our excessive deficit procedures and the related constraints. we have also made proposals in this connection. the council is committed to achieving all the policy objectives linked to the old and new programmes of the multiannual financial framework. this commitment includes the objective of reducing the famous avalanche effect, which was also referred to in this debate, and of providing the financial resources needed to pay our bills. in this context, we will start examining draft amending budgets 3 and 4 as soon as possible, after adoption of the council's position on the draft budget for 2015. the italian presidency welcomes the invitation that has been made to start these new five years with a new spirit, also in relation to the subject we have dealt with today. thank you for your attention.
the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the discussion of the statement by the vice-president of the commission and high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in iraq (2014/2716 ((rsp)).
acting president of the council, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission and high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the situation in iraq - as is well known - is very serious. the conclusions of the june foreign affairs council expressed the european union's deep concern, condemning the attacks perpetrated by the islamic state of iraq and the levant (isil). a sunni insurgency has erupted in iraq, led not only by isil but also by several other sunni armed groups, including neo-ba'athists and tribal groups. isil, along with armed militants, now poses a more immediate threat in iraq than in syria. this organization, with its growing number of foreign fighters, is a real danger to iraq's neighbours, such as lebanon and jordan, and also to the european union. the current deterioration of the security situation in iraq is due to both internal and external factors. the crisis in syria has undoubtedly allowed isil to gain a foothold in the region and a starting point for the creation of the so-called "islamic state" in syrian and iraqi territory. however, the causes of the recent insurgency are not limited to the expression of a terrorist ideology. the motives of most of the armed militants are to be found in the discontent of the sunni community with the shiite-dominated iraqi government for over a decade. among the reasons for discontent are the iraqi government's arbitrary application of "deba'tization" policies, its inaction in providing for the basic needs of sunni communities and the human rights violations perpetrated by the security forces. we have seen these problems escalate this year in the cities of fallujah and ramadi in anbar province, where protests by local sunni populations against government policies have led to violent clashes between iraqi shiite-dominated security forces and local tribes. this situation provided an opportunity for isil to establish a foothold in the territory, as demonstrated by the full-scale offensive conducted in iraqi territory in june. the speed and effectiveness of that offensive, however, took the international community completely by surprise. all political and religious leaders in iraq share the responsibility to address the root causes of these tensions. the iraqi government in particular is called upon to play a moderating role, avoiding excesses in both rhetoric and action. the humanitarian implications of the security situation are a tragic corollary. today, a total of two million iraqis have been forced to flee their homes. the european union is gravely concerned about the evolution of this humanitarian crisis and the massive internal exodus of civilians fleeing the fighting. the european commission, through echo, has so far allocated eur 12 million for humanitarian assistance. this is money for syrian refugees and for iraqi nationals who are internally displaced. the european union is also coordinating its actions with additional donors and international agencies and i would like to commend the efforts of the european union services and international agencies in the very difficult local circumstances of the dispersion of displaced persons throughout iraq. the eu is constantly keeping up to date with the situation, adapting its relief operations to developments on the ground. another consequence of the terrible crisis affecting iraqi territory is the kurdistan region. in recent weeks iraqi kurdistan has unilaterally announced its intention to hold a referendum on independence in the autumn. let me stress that iraqi kurdistan is a model of stability throughout the region and has been an essential interlocutor of international actors, particularly in response to the humanitarian situation in iraq. this cooperation deserves to be rewarded. however, we believe that unilateral moves towards independence will not help to overcome the situation in iraq and may risk being a problem for kurdistan itself. we have called on all parties concerned to seek the solution of this and other disputes in the iraqi constitution, which, if fully implemented, can provide answers to many of the kurdish demands. the transition in iraq, which began more than a decade ago and has always enjoyed the support of the european union, is a difficult process. despite many setbacks over the years and although the prospects of iraq finally being put on a path to peace and stability are threatened today, there have also been positive signs recently. the april 30 elections saw a turnout of 60% of eligible voters, despite the difficult security conditions. the european union sent an electoral expert mission to iraq to monitor the electoral process and report on its findings. the experts concluded that despite some problems, which should not be hidden, in particular the exclusion of a significant number of sunni voters in anbar province due to violence, the elections were conducted satisfactorily. the turnout in these elections, which took place a few weeks before the sunni insurrection, demonstrates the commitment of the iraqi people to democracy and the unity of iraq. beyond security, the most immediate challenge in iraq today is the ability of moderate political leaders to drive the political process. that's the message we've been sending to those leaders over the last few weeks. the rapid formation of a new government following the legislative elections on 30 april is a matter of priority. the appointment of the new president of the council of representatives yesterday, 15 july, was a step in the right direction. now a president of the republic must be appointed, so that a prime minister can be appointed and a government formed. the new government will have to seek dialogue with all the communities that make up iraq, including the sunni community currently excluded from the national political process that triggered the insurgency. without an inclusive approach and effective dialogue, iraqi society will not move forward on the path of reconciliation. as the high representative/vice-president catherine ashton has repeatedly stressed, the way out of the iraq crisis must first be a political solution, which must also lay the foundations for a security response. instead, it is very likely that overly harsh security measures will fuel sectarian discord and cause further suffering to the iraqi people. the european union stands ready to take any action it deems appropriate to facilitate political dialogue, in addition to the actions undertaken by our international partners. despite the gravity of the situation on the ground, the european union continues to provide assistance and support to iraq wherever possible, in particular in the planning and implementation of development assistance. this is a sign of the european union's continued commitment to iraq and is part of a set of actions to make iraq more stable by promoting governance capacity and supporting the delivery of basic services. such assistance shall include further support for measures to promote the rule of law to follow up the work of eujust lex. in the light of the new security situation in iraq, eu experts are also considering possible ways of supporting counter-terrorism operations. however, the fight against terrorism in iraq must respect the principles of human rights and international humanitarian law. the european union rejects the view that violations of human rights are an unavoidable or necessary price for security. the european union also works to promote cooperation between member states on the issue of foreign fighters, at their own request. finally, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the eu remains committed to the partnership and cooperation agreement with iraq and will continue to encourage such cooperation. in this connection, i take this opportunity to call on those member states which have not yet done so to complete the ratification process of the agreement as soon as possible. thank you for your attention.
mr tannock, will you take another question?
i suggest you look at the rules. do you accept a question or not?
then he won't accept the question.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the impressive speed with which this army of 15,000 men has conquered a large part of iraq should raise a number of questions for all of us and for all those who are concerned about this situation, which is knocking at the door of europe. it is certainly a total failure of the obama policy on terrorism, which has wrongly focused only on and neglected the enormous capacity and potential for influence that the most extreme islamic fundamentalism has now had over an endless network of organizations that are difficult to control, within which there are also two or three thousand allah's warriors born and living in our europe, who will most likely return to their homes, live among us, we will find them and perhaps we already find them among us, ready to act in the way we have seen. that should make our wrists tremble. it should make the wrists of this europe tremble, which, however, in its answers proves to be what the great italian writer oriana fallaci has well defined. we cannot ignore the violent ex cathedra speech of the 'caliph' al-baghdadi, who represents the most frightening threat to christian europe. a black caliph who says that the fate of syria and iraq concerns much more than the syrian and iraqi people alone but all muslims specifically called for the religious duty to actively contribute to the jihad and even with a religious reference to the conquest of rome, evidently seen as a geopolitical and geographical symbol of the christian entity of the heirs of the crusades. a very clear signal that only a blind and cowardly europe can pretend not to understand. a radical islam which no longer has territorial limits but considers the whole world, and as far as we are concerned our europe, as a territory to be conquered. how not to see, how not to react, how not to understand that we are facing a challenge of this kind.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we in the five star movement are not here to blindly support a faction or to put a label on our chest for our own interests. we are only in favour of two peoples, the palestinian and the israeli, both of whom claim the right to exist and to a normal life for their children. we stand up for innocent civilians, the most vulnerable who too often have only one fault: that of having inherited a painful history, of living near a disputed border, of crossing the wrong road at the wrong time. we still stand with those who believe that the heinous crimes committed against four boys - eyal, gilad, naftali and mohammed - demand justice and not an endless but pointless revenge. an eye for an eye and the whole world goes blind. words of wisdom, words of an enlightened man, words of mahatma gandhi. as i speak, the bombing continues on one side and the launching of missiles on the other. the actions of a few extremists are paid for by the despair of entire families. it is useless to hold trials, but the disproportion of forces on the ground is obvious. more than 200 dead and over 1,400 injured, including women, the disabled and children. four kids died playing soccer. some bombs call them smart, but they sure don't feel any pity. the gaza strip is left to itself. the risk of a humanitarian catastrophe for almost two million people is again around the corner. its inhabitants now depend almost entirely on un aid for food and medicine. tens of thousands of displaced people are fleeing aimlessly because the crossings to egypt are open only to the most seriously injured. we could look elsewhere, make assessments of mere political opportunity, think that the mediterranean, the sea surrounding my country, is enough to separate us from those unfortunate lands. but if the european union is to be a global player on the international stage, then this is the opportunity to show that with one voice it can and will live up to its ambitions, because the mediterranean is not the moat of a medieval castle, but has been a bridge between civilizations for millennia. i therefore ask you to use all our courage to prevent the agenda of the negotiations from being dictated by opposing extremisms, because the only extremism we can accept is that of dialogue at any cost, that of peace based on equal rights and equal dignity. to find agreement between the parties, starting with the egyptian proposal for a lasting truce, and then to help design a future in which two free peoples of two independent states will finally live together in harmony. these, in my view, should be our two objectives as a parliament which has the duty to represent democracy in europe. that is what millions of people around the world expect from us, that we can for once put aside the reason of the state and embrace with conviction the state of reason. (the president agreed to reply to a question with a blue card (rule 162 (2) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a question blue card. thank you, mr iglesias. what i can say is that i think i have pointed out several times in my speech that i think there is definitely a disproportion. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we hope that the parties can return to negotiations as soon as possible on the basis of the 1967 plans and on the basis of equitable recognition of both states and both communities.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the risk of a degeneration of the conflict is clear, with all the consequences both in terms of loss of life and in terms of the quality of the conflict itself. i think we must not ignore the news that is coming today. i have the impression that the further this goes, the more difficult it will be to have a controlled conflict if you can use that term. the changes taking place in the representation of power in the gaza strip in favour of jihadist groups should make israel reflect more on its mistakes and cause europe to act more decisively. the resolution is a first response. an immediate ceasefire and reopening the terms of the peace negotiations, but perhaps a little more courage is needed. we must assess some of the mistakes that have been made by israel, both in not recognising the rapprochement between fatah and hamas and in the settlements that continue to go ahead and are the cause of so many problems. and then there's europe. what does greater prominence mean? we are among the first and largest funders of the palestinian authority and represent the largest market for israel. using these tools to influence and force negotiation is our job. we must not leave the united states to negotiate a deal which we should be doing ourselves, because we have the opportunity to do so. this is the qualitative leap that europe needs, beyond words. (the president agreed to reply to a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question blue card. i honestly did not understand the question well, but in any case the fundamental theme is that in foreign policy too it is necessary to look at the cards and not reject them. the fact that we have rejected this possibility of rapprochement between hamas and fatah as a means of reopening negotiations is putting israel in a much more complicated and difficult position than in the past. perhaps a little more evaluation of these mistakes should do it.
question for the blue card. i would like to ask the honourable member if he is aware that israel has been an occupying state since 1967, if he is aware that in response it is applying collective punishment in violation of human rights, if he is aware that 213 palestinians have died in recent days and that one fifth of these palestinian people who have died in recent days are children.
i think it is perhaps appropriate to give a political dimension to this debate. mr della vedova reminded us that tomorrow is world day of international criminal justice. i believe that it is a symbolic day, which marks the anniversary of the adoption of the rome statute, the treaty which essentially established the international criminal court. i think it is also a day imagined as a moment to reflect and act on the suffering of those who are still victims of atrocities, genocide, crimes against humanity, war crimes and aggression of one state against another, but also to spread the fight against impunity for these crimes and celebrate the progress in the field of international criminal justice. i think that kampala was a historic conference. the revision of the rome statute has opened a new road and we must be able to follow it all the way. at this conference, the member countries of the international criminal court, after nearly a decade of discussions, reached agreement on the shared definition of the "crime of aggression" as an offence of state, a source of disagreement in international law for years. after numerous reviews and high-level meetings, a great deal of progress has been made. but there is still a lot to be done, because the dramatic events in the international context of recent times - i am thinking of ukraine, as well as the debate we recently had on the israeli and palestinian issues - demonstrate with great force that much remains to be done in the area of the effectiveness of international criminal law. it was noted that several countries had already ratified the kampala amendments and that many had started their national procedures. although these are long and complex, i believe it is vital that a positive outcome is found as soon as possible. we now feel it is our duty to recall the historical importance of this compromise, and to re-launch european and international attention to the crime of aggression as an offence and to the kampala compromise, which defines it and provides for the jurisdiction of the international criminal court over this crime. the time has come to work with one voice to push for ratification by those states which have not yet done so. although the european union is not an integral part of the statute, we need to bring this important issue back into the political dimension.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, when josé ayala lasso was the united nations high commissioner for human rights, he said that a man who killed one person has a better chance of being prosecuted than a man who killed 100,000. this sadly true statement should make us reflect on the reasons which have slowed down the process of consolidating the principle that no type of aggression, and i stress no type of aggression, can be accepted and tolerated today. this parliament, the only elected body on the old continent, will not have the legislative power to impose ratification on the member states, but it can certainly play a key influence. the kampala conference reached a common definition of crime and aggression, and a parallel definition of both state lawlessness and individual crime was drawn up. it is certainly a step forward, but the road to prevention could and should have been completed already. the european parliament already welcomed the adoption of the kampala amendments to the rome statute in 2011 and asked the commission and the council to encourage member states to ratify them and to introduce them into their criminal justice systems. unfortunately, only eight member states have so far done so. the inertia of the other twenty countries, including italy, is in no way justifiable. there are twenty of the twenty-eight states represented in this hemicycle which have not yet ratified the agreement. what does that mean? do we want to react firmly or not to the acts of aggression and violations of human rights which are unfortunately on the agenda? the possibility of the international criminal court intervening in the crime of aggression would be a real deterrent to ending the widespread impunity of those states and those individuals who act in contempt of human rights and endanger peace and security in the world with their imperialist gestures. i hope, ladies and gentlemen, that the kampala amendments on the crime of aggression will be ratified by the missing states and will come into force as soon as possible. this union, which was born as a community on a continent torn by world conflict, must be a pioneer and a concrete defender of the values of peace and human rights throughout the rest of the world.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, meriam - a biblical name - imprisoned despite being pregnant, with a child and a handicapped child, convicted of apostasy, that is, for her firmness in not violating her christian faith, has gone from being a symbol of fragility to being a symbol of strength and courage - as has happened to many women in history - but also a strong message for all of us: without religious freedom, there is no freedom. the european union must now take a stronger initiative at the un than it has done so far to call on sudan to respect the conventions and human rights and to put an end to the persecution that is affecting too many parts of the world, in particular, but not only, the christian communities, communities which are often of dialogue and cultural and social mediation.
the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome. the situation in egypt is very serious: murder of journalists, death sentences, citizens imprisoned for expressing their thoughts. we must demand that democratic legality be restored in all possible places. but this resolution is also important because it makes our voice heard in an area that is being shaken by tumultuous political processes and, unfortunately, by war. just look at the situation in gaza. it is important because europe must make its voice heard in this area much more, because we, with our balances and our divisions, have been too silent about the problems of an area that is close to us and that is of enormous importance to us, for historical, cultural, geographical and economic reasons. we must feel fully involved in these problems.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, since the beginning of 2014, attacks by the jihadist terrorist organisation boko haram have killed at least 2,500 people. nigeria is the eighth largest oil producer in the world. it is a pity that most of its 148 million inhabitants live below the poverty line. european peace funding and the resolutions of this parliament have been of no use as the terrorist organisation has grown stronger and the socioeconomic conditions in the country have deteriorated markedly. many sources reveal that boko haram was born in 2009 but only gained strength with the intervention in libya and syria, coincidentally when france and britain started sending equipment, weapons and fighters to africa. furthermore, an investigation released by the nigerian tribune explains how a london-based charity, the al mundada trust fund, is allegedly raising funds for boko haram. ladies and gentlemen, i wonder if the european institutions have no interest in intervening to put an end to this bloodbath by resolutely seeking out the financiers of this jihadist terrorist organization boko haram.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, by means of debate we are overcoming the ignorance that is at the root of poverty and hunger. these are the words of an extraordinary italian and european woman, rita levi montalcini. it is no coincidence, madam president, that the name of the terrorist sect boko haram translates as: western education is a sin. the point, then, is the right to education of women, as well as of every person. access to education is a fundamental right, since it is not an end in itself but a pathway and a precondition for the exercise of other rights. hence our commitment to any action that sees the return of the girls and the cessation of the boko haram terrorist movement. madam president, i propose that the mothers of the kidnapped nigerian girls be nominated for the 2014 sakharov prize for their commitment to the defense of fundamental human rights. we bring our girls home, we bring back our girls, we bring our daughters home!
in writing. - i vote against it. the proposals put forward do not appear to be impartial but are very unbalanced in favour of ukraine. the internal conflict in ukraine and the strained relationship with the neighbouring russian federation deserve closer analysis of the facts and causes, and also of possible solutions. the european parliament, or rather its nefarious majority of epp-pse-alde, instead of trying to appease all the parties involved, irresponsibly throws gasoline on the fire and proposes ... sanctions against the russian federation (sic!). in this situation the russian federation is a necessary and indispensable partner and must be involved in the negotiations for a peaceful solution to the crisis!
in writing. - after careful consideration, i voted in favour of the resolution on ukraine on the basis of the following considerations in the resolution, which i take as my own: the need to support the peace plan as an important opportunity for the growth of the entire geopolitical area, considering that ukraine continues to face difficult political, socio-economic and security challenges and that the conflict in eastern ukraine represents a serious obstacle to the development and prosperity of the country; the european union is committed to the principle of the free self-determination of peoples, and to the fundamental right of the ukrainian people to determine freely the political and economic future of the country and to protect themselves, in accordance with article 51 of the charter of the united nations. i can only condemn the violence and the daily loss of life in eastern ukraine, as well as the destruction of homes and property; i stress the obvious need to initiate a reform of the judicial system which can help to restore citizens' confidence in the judiciary, in order to fully achieve the rule of law. i voted in favour of the report to defend european interests and values and to promote stability, prosperity and democracy in the countries of the european continent.
in writing. - the complicated and tragic situation created in ukraine and crimea does not allow an approach that favours one side or the other, we believe that the only will that counts is that of the peoples. we cannot make distinctions based on factions, we do not want to make considerations based on political interests. there are huge economic interests at stake in the raw materials essential to everyone's life. history has taught us how dear the price is for individuals, families, communities when they are divided by a border or by the choice of a language or a representation. the scenario we face is confusing and polluted by too many interests at stake: we are not going to be able to do that, because we are not going to be able to do that. citizens and their freedom of choice.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. although the eu's powers in this area are rather limited, it is necessary to do everything possible to ensure that international political pressure is such as to induce the parties to seek a peaceful solution to the dispute. it is not easy to judge from the outside, and i do not dare to do so, also because when an armed conflict begins both sides have their faults, but i would like there to be no wars, especially at the eu's doorstep. first, the weapons must be laid down, and then i will be the first to commit myself to negotiations so that solutions can be found that satisfy everyone.
in writing. - mr president, i regret that i was unable to take part in the vote on the motion for a resolution on the current situation in ukraine. i would like to leave on the record a written statement of my own and my support for the text adopted. after the street clashes of recent months and the continuing bloody tensions with russia, the new ukrainian president, petro poroshenko, now faces his first and most important challenge: to reach a ceasefire with the russian government, to restore a climate of calm and to determine freely the future of his country. i believe that the government should have our full support and backing. not undermine the process of ukraine's association and economic integration with the eu. in this context, i believe that europe must do more and play a leading role, which unfortunately has not been the case so far. i therefore trust that the president-elect of the commission, jean-claude juncker, and the future high representative for foreign affairs will work to re-energize the eu and make it the main actor in resolving the crisis, also to avoid any repercussions on the energy supply of our continent, on which a new and serious reflection must be opened.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, although the suggestions of my group - first of all the request for a derogation from the 3% ceiling for investment in young people - were not even considered at the behest of the major parties in this parliament, the five star movement which i represent at the moment has nevertheless considered the final text valid and acceptable and has therefore decided to support it. colleagues, the message i want to leave you at this moment is very simple. we think it does not matter where the ideas come from, as long as they are good and in favour of the citizens who have called us here to represent you. we have applied and will always apply this principle. i hope that what i have said will inspire the work of committees in the future.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, reducing youth unemployment is one of the most important challenges to be faced in the coming years, since it affects all the countries of the union and in some of them youth unemployment rates have reached worrying and desperate levels. many young people are unable to find work and are therefore forced to emigrate. in view of this serious situation, which also affects my country, italy, the new european commission will have to present a recovery plan to launch investment policies aimed at creating jobs and stabilising employment. the youth guarantee is certainly helping the member states to cope with the serious employment crisis, but it is not and cannot be a solution. structured action will be needed to boost the economy and development to create new jobs. the use of flexibility in the use of public funds will be necessary, without which growth will be difficult to initiate. the resolution in its final text goes in that direction and that is why i voted in favour.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the resolution, although i would have preferred to hear even stronger words on this subject, since in my own country, italy, youth unemployment in some regions is as high as 60%. it is good that this resolution calls for the extension of the youth guarantee to 30 years. i 'm 29 years old , and i don 't think we should give up on this as long as there are people my age who still say , i want to have a child but i don't have the courage because i don't know how to support him. it is also good that there is a call for more resources to be invested in this programme and i think we should insist on this with the commission. i would also like to hear stronger words against precariousness, because it is not just a question of what jobs we can create for young people, but also whether we can create quality jobs in the direction of finally a sustainable future, so in a direction that i think we should feel as responsible towards the new generations. not just the kind of jobs we create, but finally the direction towards a sustainable future, jobs with investments towards a better environment, culture and research.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour because the figures on youth unemployment are alarming, to say the least, and require all our joint efforts, without any political colour, precisely because this is one of the priorities. i am absolutely convinced that providing employment opportunities for our young people is building their future and our future as well. the young people are the freshest labour force in our society and, above all, they represent the most fertile ground to be cultivated. a cooperative strategy and truly integrated action, because that is what we lack. integration between the european union and the member states must be the best solution. the guarantee fund is fine. in italy it has been extended to 29 years, an important step but one which must also be taken in the other member states. and we must start from that with the harmonization of the bologna process, otherwise all efforts will be in vain.
in writing. - in italy, 1 in 10 people live in absolute poverty, 700 000 young people between 15 and 24 are unemployed and at risk of exclusion. is this the europe our children deserve? if president junker thinks that unemployment in italy is 'the fault of the italians', i believe that the problems of the unemployed in europe, especially young people, are twofold: the single market and the euro. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of the european union. europe must stop climbing on mirrors and admit that it has failed! its insane policies of welcoming and redistributing income have saturated our labor market and tipped the welfare systems to give priority to the latest arrivals. what remains is record unemployment and vulnerable groups, such as the young and the elderly, without services and without support. europe must change the rules of the game and focus on competitiveness. we need equal tax and social security rules for all, a ban on tourism for the sake of benefits and the return of monetary sovereignty to countries that want to leave the euro. otherwise europe will explode, destroying the hope and future of the new generations.
in writing. - i'll abstain from the vote. the proposals presented are nothing but 'catalogues of good intentions', where there is a lack of real and concrete proposals to deal with a crisis in youth employment not seen since the second world war.
in writing. - today i voted in favour of the resolution on youth employment calling for more effective measures, including common minimum standards for apprenticeships and decent wages. youth unemployment has reached unprecedented levels, with a european average of 23% and peaks of over 50% in some member states. in total, 5.3 million european citizens under 25 are unemployed. i therefore think that european funding for employment programmes should be increased in future annual budgets. i also think that the commission should closely monitor the implementation of the 'youth guarantee' launched last year and propose minimum european standards on the quality of traineeships, wage levels and access to employment services. the community's funding for the 'youth guarantee', currently worth eur 6 billion, must also be increased. i would also recommend that member states give priority to the teaching of science, technology, engineering and mathematics, as these are likely to be the most in demand in the labour market. finally, to encourage job creation, i call on national governments to reduce the administrative burden on the selfemployed, micro, small and medium-sized enterprises and to introduce tax policies which create a favourable climate for private investment.
in writing. - the austerity policies have proved disastrous in many respects, but what is of concern at the structural and long-term level is the tragedy of unemployment. the percentage of young people in the workforce is alarming, to say the least, and creates a deficit in production and social security that cannot be filled. the price will be paid by future generations who will have to make sacrifices to support those in their families who have not been able to accumulate enough to qualify for a pension. if we look at the data as a whole, we find that this gap is not only alarming for the 18-29 age group but becomes even more alarming when we consider long-term unemployment for the 30-60 age group. these are people who, unlike young workers, have little chance of finding a new job and therefore create the social security gap described above. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. - this crisis has gone on for too long and is eroding the well-being that has been achieved through decades of hard work. the way out of this situation is to concentrate on certain priorities, one of which is the recovery of employment. we all agree on that, but there's one more step to take: segment the workforce by age group. the 60-year-old who has lost his job must be given the opportunity to supplement his contributions in order to be able to retire; the 40s must be offered retraining and new opportunities; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's social policy is not distorted by the economic and social consequences of the single market. that is why i voted in favour of this resolution: i think it is a good idea to think of young people and at the same time to take action on others.
in writing. - i am firmly convinced that what has been done so far is insufficient to curb the continuing rise in youth unemployment rates. we said it before and we say it again today: resources are scarce and misused. we must have the courage to change our formula: the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of vocational training. we are making it possible for companies themselves to provide on-the-job training, making it easier to switch between the two stages of the journey. the european social fund will be crucial in the years ahead, let us not waste it and let us not waste the only resources at our disposal.
in writing. - the motion for a resolution adopted today contains important and, above all, concrete directives for the member states to combat youth unemployment. in addition to the proposal to extend the youth guarantee, both in terms of funding and the age required to benefit from it, it is important to call for efforts to facilitate, rather than restrict, the free movement and mobility of workers within the union. in this connection, it would be useful to take greater account of commissioner andor's proposal for the creation of a european unemployment insurance scheme and, if necessary, to extend it to the structuring of a genuine 'european single contract', the same in all the member states, which would simplify the mobility of workers to the greatest possible extent by guaranteeing the portability of contributions and seniority. i think it is equally important to emphasize the availability and quality of training and retraining courses for young people, which the member states should implement as soon as possible in order to reduce the very high inequalities in education between countries but also within national borders.
in writing. - i regret that i was unable to take part in the vote on the resolution on youth employment, but i have chosen to leave a written statement of my own and my support for the text adopted on the record. finally, the european union has a tool such as the youth employment initiative which, although with obvious limits in terms of resources allocated, allows member states to provide training and employment opportunities for young people aged 15 to 24. it is vital, however, that the maximum age limit for the initiative be raised to 29 or 30 years, and the european parliament will have to make a commitment to this. more importantly, however, the union must return to a path of economic growth without which this instrument, like others, will achieve little. the resumption of public and private investment, the creation of tangible and intangible infrastructure, and the overcoming of budgetary rigidities: these must be the priorities of the european commission's work over the next five years.
in writing. - the figures for youth unemployment are increasingly alarming: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's social policy is not only a matter of social cohesion but also of the social dimension. the lack of jobs in europe must be a matter of primary concern to governments; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. europe must encourage member states to share best practices that have proven effective, to coordinate their strategies and to find common solutions to the problem of youth unemployment. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because if we want to build a young and united europe, we must focus on young workers and give them a guarantee of a future.
in writing. - while i share the positions expressed in this resolution analysing the situation in iraq, i do not think that any intervention by the eu is worthwhile, other than a sharp increase in spending on so-called 'humanitarian aid', which i consider to be ineffective and ineffective, and for these reasons i abstained.
in writing. - today i voted in favour of the resolution to strongly condemn the attacks by the islamic state (is) against the iraqi state and its citizens, and in particular the extrajudicial executions and the imposition of a strict interpretation of sharia. at the same time, i urge the iraqi security forces to respect international commitments on human rights and fundamental freedoms in the fight against is and other terrorist groups. i believe that the answer to the security question must be combined with a sustainable political solution involving all components of iraqi society and taking into account their legitimate demands. i believe that after the elections in april, a government with an inclusive programme, representing the political, religious and ethnic diversity of iraqi society, must be formed as a matter of urgency to put an end to the bloodshed and fragmentation of the country. furthermore, the army should be reorganized in an inclusive, non-sectarian and impartial manner. finally, i believe that the eu must develop a comprehensive strategic approach to the middle east and that iran, saudi arabia and the other gulf states must participate in efforts to ease tensions in iraq.
in writing. - the serious regional crisis in iraq and syria, the five star movement is opposed to extremism, religious fundamentalism and the continuing struggle between sunnis and shiites, which obscures and mystifies the reasons for the suffering of so many families. the instability in the region, which has been going on for some time now, has created a humanitarian emergency of immense proportions with hundreds of thousands of people fleeing their destroyed or looted homes. interventions by western armed forces have worsened already tense and complicated local situations in many ways and have never been resolved in any case. we must stop foreign interference and let the people decide for themselves.
in writing. - it seems to me unfortunately clear that in iraq we did something wrong. i am referring to all the international forces that intervened alongside the united states in 2003. looking at the very worrying situation today, we must acknowledge the mistakes that have been made, whether in the way the campaign has been managed, in the relationship between objectives and results, or in other strategic or procedural matters. now that the damage has been done, it must be remedied and the eu cannot allow a return to the middle ages. it is therefore appropriate to develop an overall strategy that is able to move the country towards a more stable situation, more secure for the citizens, and more in line with the aspirations of the citizens. the tone and content of the resolution seemed to me to be in line with my own thinking, and that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. - while it is a fairly balanced resolution calling for a more decisive role for the eu in the current israeli-palestinian crisis, i find that there are some controversial points in it, which is why i abstained.
in writing. - today i voted in favour of the resolution calling for an immediate end to the rocket fire on israel and the israeli military action against gaza. i also call on the eu foreign policy chief and the member states to do more to support an immediate ceasefire, to stop all acts of violence that threaten civilians and to convince the israelis and palestinians to resume direct peace talks. as regards the resumption of direct peace talks, i think it is essential to encourage the main regional political actors, in particular egypt and jordan, to continue their efforts to defuse the situation. nonviolent means are the only way to achieve a just and lasting peace between israelis and palestinians. these negotiations must achieve concrete results and the eu must play a more active role.
in writing. - the palestinians have been suffering a humanitarian tragedy for some time now, involving almost 2 million people. we do not want to minimize the damage suffered by the israeli citizens, but we want to emphasize the scale of the conflict. the gaza strip is surrounded by a constant blockade that prevents emergency services from functioning properly: the lack of food, water and medicine makes the situation intolerable for the people living there. what we are seeing before us is a series of appeals to keep the peace, to avoid further bloodshed. they're calls that go unheeded, over and over again. the consequences are for children, women and the sick who cannot receive treatment perhaps because they are on the wrong side of the border.
in writing. - in addition to iraq, the situation on the israeli-palestinian border is also very serious and needs to be addressed. to trace the historical roots of this conflict is only useful for academic purposes, in my view, because it would involve an assessment of which reasons are more or less important and valid, an assessment as absurd as it is useless. an overall strategy should be drawn up here too: something which will enable the israeli people to lower their guard and direct their scientific research to sectors other than the war industry, and which will enable the palestinian people to increase their well-being and learn to live peacefully with their jewish and muslim neighbours. the eu itself could be an example, as it was created to put an end to an old rivalry. it is our moral responsibility to allow the children of israelis and palestinians to grow up in a peaceful land, which is a good fortune we have had and which i sincerely wish for all.
in writing. - this is our conflict. it crosses our borders, as well as touching our consciences. the european union is the only real political and institutional actor with the authority and credibility to act as a mediator to end hostilities and restore a serious dialogue aimed not only at lasting peace but at resolving unresolved issues. we must provide political support and cover for all those who agree to sit down at the table and reject violence as a means of resolving conflicts. it is said that europe has no foreign policy of its own, and perhaps that is true, but it is free from ideological prejudices towards the contenders, and that makes it the only credible interlocutor. the hope is that the new commission will be able to give the high representative a real active role, making him the protagonist of a new season in foreign policy, starting with the troubled lands on our borders.
in writing. - mr president, i regret that i was unable to take part in the vote on the motion for a resolution on the dramatic events in the gaza strip. but given the importance of the subject, i would like to leave a written statement of my own and my support for the text adopted. there's no more time. the escalation of violence in the gaza strip must be stopped. we must insist with determination on an immediate ceasefire, as proposed by egypt. innocent deaths, lack of water, food and medicine add to the strain. anger and despair breed hatred and empower extremists. it is a wrong choice, a tragic illusion to think that in this way israel can guarantee its people a more secure future. europe cannot wait, its southern borders have become a dustbin. we need diplomatic action, decisive and immediate.
in writing. - after careful reflection and debate in the house, i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the crime of aggression, as i too firmly believe, as stated in the text of the resolution, that it is essential that all eu member states commit themselves to combating genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes. i am also convinced that it is necessary to offer our support to calls to include the fight against impunity for serious human rights violations among the priorities of the eu's external action, as well as those of its member states. i am confident that, through the action of the european parliament, the impunity of the perpetrators of the most serious crimes, which is a cause of alarm to the international community, will be brought to an end.
in writing. - the inclusion of the crime of aggression in the jus cogens is a step towards the definitive condemnation of war as a means of settling disputes between sovereign states the path we have taken so far has made it possible to denounce and prosecute men who in the name of a sovereign power have stained themselves with the greatest atrocities, atrocities such as ethnic cleansing. it is these inhuman and uncivil acts which have so strongly united the peoples of europe since the second world war. they are what have given us the strong impetus to create bodies to prevent any entity, whether you want to call it a state or not, from committing such acts again.
in writing. - the joint resolution, which i voted for, struck a fairly predictable balance on the crime of aggression. it is a subject on which it is easy to agree, but which is not a priority for any state and which therefore always remains an open question. it is no coincidence that many countries, including italy, have not yet honoured their commitments in this area. the resolution i helped to adopt is an important political statement in favour of this principle, and i hope that the states themselves will be able to follow up on it in the near future.
mr president, it was very kind of you to give me the floor. it is sad to speak in such an empty chamber, as my colleague has just described it. i would remind you that we are paid handsomely by the taxpayers to do a job and if we are paid to do this we should do it with the utmost consistency and competence. i think that there is no respect for this work on the part of my colleagues, because i have seen statements made in the most complete chaos. you stated that these people were going to catch a plane. we're not paid to fly, we're paid to stay here and work and work with the utmost seriousness.
the crisis with russia is a political crisis, but so far the main victims are european farmers. the resources made available to the commission - and i join in this thanks to commissioner cioloş - of eur 125 million are certainly a timely response, but they are absolutely insufficient to compensate for the enormous damage to our producers, especially if the european union continues to impose sanctions and russia continues to respond by extending the embargo. a dramatic ping-pong for our farmers. i would also remind you that to give the scale of the problem, it is enough to mention the 39% of european fruit and vegetable exports going to russia or the 33% of european cheese exports going to russia. we are therefore asking the commission for more funds to deal with a crisis which unfortunately does not seem to be ending any time soon. it is important to remember, however, that these resources must not be taken from the crisis reserve of the agricultural budget. i would like to remind you, as the commissioner has said in part, that because of the agreement on the financial perspective those funds have in fact been set at zero. so drawing funds from the crisis reserve means in effect cutting direct aid to farmers. if the crisis is political, farmers are clearly not to blame for bearing the financial burden of the russian embargo. we must be able, ladies and gentlemen, to find other funds from the european budget that go beyond the agricultural budget. finally, i would like to stress that the commission's suspension of the disbursement of funds following disproportionate requests from certain member states shows that a more rational method than simply first come first served must be found in order to distribute compensatory aid in a balanced way as has been done on other occasions, i am thinking of escherichia coli.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we have seen that the value of agri-food products affected by the russian embargo is estimated by the european commission at five billion euros and affects the income of nine and a half million european producers, which is nine and a half million households. unfortunately, this assessment is optimistic. for italy alone, the figure of eur 160 million is less than the eur 200 million calculated by the trade associations. optimistic assessment because indirect consequences such as the one on triangular trade, which concerns european products sold to russia first via third countries, are not considered. optimistic assessment because it does not consider the loss of market shares in the long term, because the russian consumer could get used to other tastes and no longer take european products. optimistic assessment because imbalances in the internal market are not taken into account, due to the introduction of low-cost products which, if they no longer find an outlet on the russian market, will be dumped on the european market. it is therefore very likely that the aid granted, which is already below the level of needs, will not be sufficient. the five star movement calls on the european commission to ensure that the next steps are more carefully allocated and to work towards finally building a genuine harmonized european single market capable of absorbing shocks and emergencies, and managing internal trade flows in a forward-looking manner. either we all work together to create a true european system, or it means that if only emergencies dictate the guidelines, we can say that the european institutions are failing in their task.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, unfortunately the embargo on russia has created serious problems for all farmers and it is not right that they should have to pay the consequences. they are already suffering from the law you passed on the oranges from morocco, so they are suffering a lot from this crisis. now this embargo has caused even more serious problems. i would like to ask the commission what it intends to do to help them. the help you gave was not enough. furthermore, they have not been controlled or rationally allocated. they were distributed by rain as you are accustomed to do, so it is not fair, as they are now all gone and many have received no compensation. so my colleagues are asking for more funds: it is not right to give more without any criteria, without first assessing who really needs it, but to give it out without knowing what criteria. we are asking for a review of your system of distribution of these benefits, we are asking for everyone to benefit from them and not just some countries in particular, and we are asking the commission to use this crisis in a constructive way, that is to say to use the overproduction of agricultural products so that it is distributed to schools as an educational programme on the use of fruit and vegetables.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, what did the european commission expect, that putin's russia would respond with thank-you cards for the measures taken? it was largely foreseeable that this policy of retaliation would have a very serious impact on the very delicate economy of the agri-food sector of our exporting producing countries, including my own country. i emphasize the direct and indirect consequences now and also in the future let's just think about the expo 2015 problem. we as the european union are witnessing a bit of alice in wonderland, that is the impression given by the representative of the european commission. we are talking about very modest aid in the face of what may become a tragedy for agricultural production and for the milk production of the whole european sector, in the face of which i think that the hesitancy, the genericity and the weakness of the measures taken are really in contrast with the superficiality with which, for example, the renzi government has not been able to discuss in advance with the european commission the aid that would and should be given to our producers.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we are currently experiencing a deep crisis in our relations with russia. unfortunately, farmers are paying the price for this. i am convinced that sanctions are the right and probably the only sensible way to bring about improvements here. but on the other hand, we should also bear in mind that it is highly likely that only decisive action on our part will bring the russians to their senses. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. and the suspension of the measures in the last few days is not the right way either. i come from a region where about 10% of the apples in europe are produced. combined with the fact that we expect a record harvest this year, the price of fresh apples is currently half of what it was a year ago. the damage to our farmers can be calculated very clearly. that is why aid - and i am pleased that you have announced that new measures will follow in the next few days - should be resumed immediately and we should also resolutely respond to the situation with new and fresh funds.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, since last august russia has blocked the import of european agricultural products, a measure which affects five billion euros of foodstuffs which will not be able to be sold in those countries for at least a year. european producers are thus losing a valuable market and products are left unsold on the shelves. tons of meat, milk, fruit and vegetables left to rot. but where there's a problem, there's usually an opportunity. the economic crisis and austerity have pushed millions of europeans below the poverty line, and russian sanctions are threatening the survival of hundreds of small and medium-sized farming enterprises in europe. millions of people have nothing to eat, while tons of food rots on the shelves. so i, commissioner, as the spokesman for the five star movement, ask that the commission and the member states set up a serious and effective programme - serious and effective - of purchasing foodstuffs for charity. the funds are there, they can be found in the cap budget, which provides for a reserve fund, and then they can be supplemented by the states. with a simple gesture we can give an answer to millions of citizens who are affected by the crisis and we can also give an answer to thousands of producers. i just have one question for you: what are we waiting for, what are we discussing?
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the russian crisis is threatening the european agri-food sector in a dramatic way. the figures for eu exports to russia are impressive, but equally impressive are the negative effects of this embargo, both in terms of the losses already suffered by the sector and in closing the growth prospects so necessary for the revival of the agri-food sector. it is therefore clear that urgent incentive measures must be identified, particularly in the fruit and vegetables, milk and meat sectors, so that the companies in these sectors can recover from the effects of a political crisis and be helped to identify other markets for their products, and that action must be taken to change rapidly the methods of applying and distributing aid already granted between the various countries. i think that we must work to ensure that targeted compensation is provided, and, once the european commission has checked the budgetary availability, i hope that extraordinary measures will be adopted, as well as measures to advance the payment of cap funds to farmers, as already suggested by the minister for agriculture, maurizio martina. the commissioner cioloș's comments are certainly very welcome, but they are not enough. what i am asking for, however, is the timeliness of the european union's action. european farmers cannot wait, not least because, as they say in my area, while the doctor is studying, the patient is in danger of dying.
the russian embargo has blocked food imports from the united states, the european union, canada, australia and norway for 12 months. the risk is that we will bring our sectors, already battered by the crisis, to their knees. the value of agri-food products affected by the embargo is estimated by the european commission at eur 5 billion, affecting the income of 9 million europeans. these figures are quite optimistic as they do not take into account a number of factors such as triangular trade, long-term market loss and imbalances in the internal market. the aid granted will therefore not be sufficient. the european union must allocate resources more carefully and work to build a genuine harmonized european single market, able to absorb shocks and emergencies, by managing internal trade flows in a forward-looking way.
in writing. russia accounts for about 10% of the european union's agricultural exports, worth €12 billion a year, and has been banning imports of a number of agri-food products for more than a month. we would like to reassure our producers by asking the european commission what measures it intends to take both in the short term to mitigate the damage to the european agricultural sector and in the longer term to remedy this situation so that it is not the producers and small and mediumsized enterprises in the sector who bear the cost. it seems that russia is organizing itself, both by increasing its domestic production and by finding alternative trading partners, to no longer be dependent on european imports: it is therefore necessary to find a solution which will enable us to pursue our foreign policy without damaging our trade policy.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the union for the mediterranean ministerial meeting on 30 september will be the official occasion to resume discussions on various agreements between the union and the mediterranean countries and will also be the occasion to make the interests of all europeans truly felt. i am well aware, commissioner, of the agreement already signed with morocco, the same agreement which has invaded our market for very low-cost agricultural products in direct competition with those of my country, an agreement signed to allow certain european heavyweights to export their industrial products to morocco, thus sacrificing the agricultural production of the mediterranean states. i therefore ask the commission to negotiate for europe, and not just for some states, and to ask future partners to conform to our standards of rights and safety, especially food, to protect our consumers and make competition fairer. i ask that we insist on workers' rights and the regularisation of undeclared work in small and mediumsized enterprises abroad, because such different working conditions give rise to competition which our small and mediumsized enterprises in europe are not able to sustain. our small and mediumsized enterprises are increasingly investing abroad. we must therefore work to create a solid regulatory framework to guarantee safe investment, to make it easier for them to obtain visas, as already mentioned, for work purposes and to coordinate the different european strategies for small and mediumsized enterprises. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the programme and will continue to monitor the implementation of the programme. finally, i would ask you not to forget the importance of cultural services: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union's external relations. commissioner, there is much to gain or lose from these agreements. it all depends on how europe plays its cards.
in writing. the arab spring has brought significant changes and challenges for the people of the countries bordering the mediterranean, together with a growing expectation that the european union will have to respond in a proportionate way to the commitments it has made towards its southern neighbours, within the framework of the european neighbourhood policy and in line with the lisbon treaty, which provides for union policies capable of promoting peace, democracy, development and social justice. we therefore welcome the future creation of the euro-mediterranean trade and investment facilitation mechanism which should provide economic operators, particularly smes, with the information they need to operate in the region. we stress the need to promote investment security in the mediterranean region through a system which coordinates strategies for smes and covers various areas, namely guarantees, financing, information and networking. we also welcome progress on cultural services, which have important potential benefits, particularly in the tourism sector, noting the general importance of cultural exchanges, the provision of student scholarships and the possible establishment of specific erasmus programmes (including an erasmus for entrepreneurs) and leonardo da vinci euromed.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the italian economic crisis, together with the immigration emergency, is likely to undermine the protection of fundamental rights by generating a darwinian struggle among the weakest: the european parliament has been a very active participant in the process of european integration, and it has been a very active participant in the process of european integration. yesterday's news was yet another tragedy: two hundred and fifty people drowned off the coast of libya. europe and the individual member states are pouring money into a system of managing flows that is not always transparent and not free from criticism and speculation. what then? more effective action is needed in the countries of origin and transit of migrants. the proper management of european funds in the member states should be monitored to prevent fraud and waste. the dublin regulation needs to be revised in order to implement real solidarity and cooperation between member states. humanitarian corridors must be established so that migrants can reach their destination directly without risking their lives.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the waste crisis in italy, and particularly in the south of the country, has become cyclical and the disposal system is not working, despite the goodwill of the people, as is shown by the increase in the percentage of waste being collected separately. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the waste is disposed of in a way that is compatible with the directive. the sanction is deserved, and how could it not be when there are 422 at-risk areas, 218 illegal landfills and numerous forgotten sites that have never been remediated? it is equally true, however, that an exemplary sanction must be accompanied by an attempt to change the union's intervention, which has perhaps not been effective enough so far. a proposal for a directive on waste and packaging is now under consideration. it is our opportunity to strengthen european action, using the principles of the circular economy, a closer alignment of definitions and preventive controls and extended producer responsibility, of urban waste restrictions by 2030. i am sure i can rally the support of all of you, ladies and gentlemen, to turn a tragedy into a resource for our communities.
the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. many more were injured. hundreds of thousands of civilians are fleeing. the principle of international law of the inviolability of frontiers has been violated and dialogue between partner countries has been replaced by an escalation of violence and the imposition of diplomatic sanctions. these are the elements of a crisis of great importance for europe. we must respond responsibly and firmly, not only because this crisis will have an impact on our security, but also because the future of relations with our neighbours, with whom we share the same fundamental interests, is at stake. with this responsibility and with this firmness we must ask ourselves, this parliament, the member states and the high representative for foreign and security policy the following question: does europe need a new cold war? we socialists and democrats say no, but we also ask whether europe should allow anything to prevent a new cold war. we socialists and democrats say no. we believe that not everything can be allowed and we insist on respect for the right of the ukrainians to decide their own destiny and on defending the principle of territorial integrity. peace and prosperity in our neighbourhood should be the goal, and we still want to believe that this goal is shared with russia. at the same time, we have a duty to uphold international law, and law is the only framework for developing future peaceful relations. the ceasefire recently declared is a positive step forward, but it is fragile. we need to maintain dialogue with russia to make the ceasefire effective and to assist the people who have been affected by the conflict. sanctions, again, cannot replace the search for a diplomatic and political solution. we urge the high representative to continue to facilitate dialogue between ukraine and russia and to keep channels of communication with russia open in order to take concrete steps towards a peaceful solution to the crisis. among these passages i want to recall: one, the withdrawal of all military forces from ukraine; two, to ban the entry of combatants and weapons into eastern ukraine; three, the rebels' commitment to negotiations for a comprehensive political solution. we are confident that russia can convince the rebels, because another conflict on the russian border would be unacceptable. let us give peace a chance, a chance. the european union must be prepared to gradually lift sanctions and, if the assessment is positive, to re-establish good relations with russia, taking into account the situation on the ground. i would also stress that the crisis in ukraine should not hinder cooperation with russia in other areas where our interests coincide. i am thinking of the fight against international terrorism in syria and iraq, the need to stabilise afghanistan and the fight against the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction in important regions such as iran. the european parliament was unaware of this and was surprised by the decision to postpone until december 2015 the implementation of the association agreement between the european union and ukraine, which we are voting on today. many problems could have been avoided if the current consultation process on the implementation of the agreement had been agreed earlier. the delay in implementing the agreement should not be seen in a cold war logic as a victory for russia, but as a concession to peace building. i conclude: let us give peace a chance, i want to say it again. we work for peace and prosperity and we work together, all of us together, for these goals.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am in favour of russia and against sanctions against russia and putin. i also asked about the malaysian plane, because before it was said that it was a russian missile, but now bullets are coming out that may be ukrainian. i think europe is making insane choices against russia. hundreds of millions of europeans are paying the price, just because you have to defend america from their interests. i believe that we must cooperate with russia, because otherwise this europe, which is already inverted against the illegal immigrants, because it is not able to find a solution to the illegal immigrants, against the islamists, because it is not able to find a solution about the islamists, is doing it now with russia. it's a shame. there are no eurosceptics or europeans here, there are only "europirla" who do not serve the interests of the european people and do not serve the interests of those who have companies, economies that work with russia. in italy there are many entrepreneurs in trouble because of your demented choices, and i want to say with this shirt that i am pro-russian, and that if the ukrainian people, a part of the ukrainian people decide with a referendum to stay with russia, they can stay, because the people are sovereign and the governments in this case are not.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on 17 july last the malaysia airlines flight mh17 crashed, killing 296 people, including 80 children. the immediate start of the investigation revealed that this was not a simple air accident, but a full-scale military attack. neither the dutch inquiry committee in its preliminary report, nor the experts from easa and eurocontrol at the hearing on 3 september in the committee on transport were able to clarify what had happened. how could easa not have known about the ukrainian safety regulations about the danger of flying over that area? does it seem to you, ladies and gentlemen, that there is no clear responsibility, given the innumerable bodies which are supposed to protect the citizens of europe? let's talk about the safety of all of us. we must demand complete clarity on this matter, because in addition to the security question there are other economic, political and social questions. we talked about it yesterday. many companies, including in italy, are now collapsing because of the sanctions applied by both the european union and russia, and are therefore in complete exasperation. whole sectors are at risk of collapse: the european union is not only a major exporter of agricultural products, we talked about that yesterday, but also textiles, transport, not to mention energy, given the european union's heavy dependence on russia. now, ladies and gentlemen, given that europe does not need gas, but heat, is it not time, is it not time, for the european union to seriously review its energy policies, to become self-sufficient and to focus definitively on renewable sources?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, it is quite obvious that the situation in ukraine is complicated, and the responsibilities are obvious. of course, russia is not allowed to invade a country, as it has done with crimea and the eastern region of ukraine, and therefore it is right to respond to this violation, just as it is right for europe to make its own reflections and choices to solve problems and not to deepen them. a political solution is needed, but on what basis? i think that the political solution needs two important coordinates. the first concerns the territorial integrity of ukraine, the second the awareness that with today's approval of the association agreement we cannot see this agreement as a sort of key to opening the way to a possible enlargement of the european union to ukraine. this is not on the agenda and it would be a grave mistake to leave it out of our debate. i think that it is within these two coordinates that the political solution must be sought and i hope that the commission will be able to work in this direction beyond the pruritus of some countries.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i must say that i am very concerned about the situation we are in, concerned about the serious economic crisis we are going through, but even more so about the international situation. europe, the european union, was founded on these two pillars, prosperity and peace, or rather peace and prosperity, and today both seem to be in crisis. perhaps we are also waking up from an illusion in which we have been cradled for so long. we thought they were acquired assets forever and perhaps we did not do enough to protect them in the past years when they were not in danger. today, i think, we are also experiencing delays in this respect. certainly, in the situation that has arisen in ukraine, we have not been as effective as we could have been, we have not been as timely as we should have been. but i hear some tones that worry me, because i don't want war to be fought in two, peace also in two, but sometimes the tone here is becoming really worrying. i don't want to see very high walls, invisible but real, that would harm the world, globally, to be built again. europe must rediscover this dimension of dialogue, it must strengthen diplomacy, it must open up dialogue, it must build bridges. i ask the commission - i do not have time, unfortunately - what is being done, for example, to compensate those sectors which are most affected, such as agriculture. have you then analysed what would happen with further sanctions and possible countermeasures by russia? we're very worried. i repeat, peace and prosperity are closely linked, we cannot build peace by giving up a few bits of prosperity.
member of the commission. - mr president, although there was a discussion on the political aspects of the relationship between ourselves and ukraine and the interference of russia, a lot of questions have been put about the dcfta and, more precisely, the agreements or proposal for an agreement on friday with respect to delaying the provisional application. what is it really about? it is a process; and i have to say that i am very surprised that you are surprised about this process, because it started on 11 july when there was a first trilateral meeting, asked for not by us but by the two other parties concerned, and the russians put on the table a number of remarks and questions and observations with respect to the dcfta. that resulted in technical consultations over the month of august, with the agreement to meet again on 12 september at ministerial level. then there was the summit meeting in minsk on 26 august, where catherine ashton, günther oettinger and myself represented the european commission. explicit reference was made to the meeting on 12 september and president poroshenko even said that he was going to postpone the ratification until that very date. that is why we met, mr auštrevičius, to make possible the ratification of this agreement by ukraine. that is why we have been doing this and when you look closely at the agreement that we reached on friday, what does it really say? on the one hand, it says that we are going to prolong the autonomous trade measures, which means that the advantages that we grant to ukraine can continue. i think this is very important, because what you really need in ukraine is economic growth and development. that is what you really need. if you want to find a lasting peace there, that is what you need. if you want to strengthen the position of the ukrainian people that is what you need, economic growth, and we continue that. on the other hand, the russians have been asking to cut out 2 400 lines from the agreement, that is about one fourth of the agreement on the tariffs. they are claiming that the technical barriers to trade are disadvantageous to them and they say that sps cannot go ahead as it stands at this moment in time. solutions exist for the sps, because we could very well have an equivalence on the ukrainian market between sps in russia – gost rules – and our own rules. you could have that. for technical barriers to date, it is a programme that still has to be put into practice. and the 2 400 tariff lines: yes, of course, if you make a dcfta that gives an advantage with respect to tariffs. but we are ready to do exactly the same with russia! we have been insisting with russia for years, about having a dcfta with them! it is not that we are doing anything against them, but that is what they want to do. to find the solution for that, we have postponed the provisional application for one year, leaving open the possibility for either party – either party meaning ukraine or the european union – to put possible changes on the table. just putting them on the table, you know: we have not agreed to any change. and, by the way, we could not do that. the only ones who could do that, honourable members, once you have ratified the agreement, is you; because it would mean that you would have to change the treaty with ukraine before you can change anything in it. i do not have the feeling that parliament is really ready to do that. so what we have been doing is creating the conditions for ratifying today. that is what we need today. once this ratification happens, this is a new fact. it is not only a political fact, it is a legal fact, it is a judicial fact. it means that you have an agreement, that you have a treaty, and that you can only change it by a new treaty. i have always understood that that is what you wanted, which is why i do not understand the remarks you have been making today. if you really want to put yourself in a difficult position with russia, if you really want to give them the upper hand, then you have to follow the line you have been voicing here, that this is a bad agreement, that in fact we should delay ratification of the agreement. allow me to say that to do so would be a historical mistake. what we have been doing is creating the conditions for ratification of this very, very important treaty. that does not concern only ukraine: it concerns the whole eastern neighbourhood. it is about whether or not we are in a position to continue this policy and make it a success.
, member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/ high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. - mr president, honourable members, there was a lot of wisdom, as always, during this debate – though rather more populist slogans than i have been used to hearing over the past five years, and some outrageous remarks too, from your side, such as the implication that the nationalities of our heads of delegation in our partner countries determine the policy of the european union. what a nonsense! i would like to make four points. the first, in response to your request that we should learn more about russia, is that we understand russia. the 1975 helsinki act clearly stipulates that borders may not be changed through military force. under the 1990 paris charter, it is reiterated that ‘within the framework of international law, all the participating states have equal rights and duties. they will respect each other’s right to define and conduct ... its relations with other states in accordance with international law and in the spirit of the present declaration’. the budapest memorandum of 1994 guarantees the ukrainians total integrity and sovereignty. all of that was violated and destroyed by one european country. in 2008, in the context of the nato-russia council in bucharest, vladimir putin said that ukraine was an artificial country – yet someone here is blaming eu policy for the problems there! i cannot follow that logic. my second point is in response to the call i heard for us to ‘grow up’ and to recognise a real threat. what is a real threat? i always thought it was when someone starts to violate the rule of law and international law, because those are the bases of our wellbeing. we have agreed that our commitments to law and to order will determine not only the way we treat each other but also how we treat our neighbours. this is predominantly what we base our security on. by the way, catherine ashton is not here not because she wants to avoid a debate with the european parliament but because she is also dealing with russian diplomats on the very complex iranian issue. she is doing everything possible to prevent the iranian issue becoming a hot topic for debate here. and she is moving in the right direction, in part thanks to constructive cooperation with the russian diplomats. so our insistence on russia living up to its commitments vis-à-vis international law and the rule of law does not prevent us from working with russians on other important hot topics around the world. my third point concerns self-deception. the problem is that the same people who have always called for us to respect the sovereignty of third countries’ decisions are now questioning our own policy, which is based on that. the thing which needs to be very clearly underlined is that there has been a ukrainian request to postpone the provisional application of the economic part of the association agreement – and that was also underlined in the discussion that president barroso had with president poroshenko and prime minister yatsenyuk. the reasoning was logical and understandable. the economy and financial system of ukraine face a huge test because of the events in the east, not to mention the impact of the illegal annexation of crimea. they expressed the wish to have more time to prepare for accepting the tariffs being negotiated. in today’s ratification of the association agreement by the verkhovna rada, in parallel to the ratification providing consent, this body clearly underlines the commitment of ukrainians to the text being negotiated. another thing needs to be underlined to which no one has really referred, and to all of you who spoke in favour of peace prevailing, i would like to make this point clear. the russians have their troops on ukrainian territory and they have also made it absolutely clear, repeatedly, on the record, that once the association agreement is ratified by the verkhovna rada, on that very day – rather than later when they might face economic or trade difficulties, although we do not share that opinion – they will not only repeal the commonwealth of independent states free trade agreement with ukraine, but will also adopt further restrictive economic measures against it. so, in addition to the military threat and possible escalation, we have also been facing the threat of a full-scale economic and trade war. we have the ratification of the agreement which, as described by my colleague, has been negotiated over four years. we will have the provisional application of the political part. we will have the continuation of reforms, because we asked that question and, in the discussion that president barroso had with prime minister yatsenyuk on saturday, we agreed on a number of elements: we will go ahead with the structure provided for in the association agreement; we will have the association council, the committee and various subcommittees; and we will start our work. the european agenda for reform, as agreed with the ukrainians, is very much about the implementation of the association agreement and it will go ahead. implementation of the action plan, which was also adopted today by the verkhovna rada, operationalising the association agreement, goes ahead. our preparations for the donors’ conference at the end of this year – to focus both on the implementation of the association agreement and on the reconstruction and rehabilitation of the east of ukraine – go ahead. the mandate and focus of the ukrainian support group, which has started its work already, remain the same, and the coordination mechanism provided for by the ukrainians for the implementation of the association agreement will go ahead. there is no a delay as a result of russian blackmail. now, the last point: a number of you spoke of dividing lines – we are being accused of creating dividing lines through the association agreement – and i believe the time has come to prove that the association agreement is actually one of the building components of what could, in future, be a european economic free zone from lisbon to vladivostok. whether or not some of you call the eurasian union a project of putin, it is a matter of reality. it means that not only russia but also belarus and kazakhstan, and very soon armenia too, will have their views on the association agreement with ukraine and its impact on those countries; it means that they too will have views on cooperation with the european union. not only do we all stand to benefit, but we will be able to eliminate the danger of creating a dividing line if we start to work together, because if we missed this aspect, thus undermining the importance of the regulatory framework, then by just ignoring the eurasian union we would be the ones contributing to the new dividing line in europe. i believe the agreement should be a part of this much bigger picture, in which all these important initiatives and steps are being put together.
in writing. the situation in eastern ukraine is becoming increasingly worrying, violence has escalated exponentially, causing three thousand deaths and many more injured. despite the signing of the minsk protocol on 5 september, which agreed to a ceasefire, fighting continued. the european union cannot and must not remain indifferent to these constant violations of international law which threaten the lives and security of millions of people. the continuation of these tensions puts the situation of not only the people of ukraine, who are most directly affected, but also all of us european citizens in danger. in august last year, the russian government adopted a list of products from the eu, the us, norway, canada and australia that will be banned from the russian market for one year. the european union will suffer the consequences of this, because russia is the second largest export market for our agricultural products. the european commission must therefore urgently take all the necessary measures to support producers affected by these restrictions. in concrete terms, i hope that the union will use extraordinary funds to deal with a crisis which is not only sectoral but above all political!
the agenda includes, for joint discussion, the recommendation of the committee on foreign affairs on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the association agreement between the european union and the european atomic energy community and their member states, of the one part, and ukraine, of the other part, with the exception of the provisions on the treatment of third-country nationals legally employed as employees in the territory of the other party (13613/2013 c8-0105/2014 2013/0151a(nle)) (rapporteur: jacek saryusz-wolski) (a8-0002/2014), and the recommendation of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs on the eu-ukraine association agreement, as regards the provisions on the treatment of third-country nationals legally employed in the territory of the other party (14010/2013 - c8-0156/2014 - claude moraes (belated) (rule of procedure): 2013/0615 (nle)) i would ask you to respect the deadlines during this debate because at noon we will be in direct contact with the parliament in kiev, so i cannot accept either a blue card or a catch-the-eye. i also call on my former colleagues to respect the deadline, and on all the rapporteurs and speakers to do the same, otherwise i shall be forced to take you off the floor, not out of disrespect for you, but because we cannot disrespect the parliament in kiev.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that any treaty with the ukrainian government needs to be discussed in greater depth. parliament has given itself too little time. these are the points that should be clarified before any agreement in the midst of civil war. we cannot provoke russia by including ukraine in nato. the eu should call on the government in kiev, which is considered illegitimate by half of the ukrainians, to dissolve immediately the far-right and neo-nazi militias under the ministry of the interior in kiev. the russian populations in eastern and southern ukraine must be protected, otherwise we give putin every reason to invade. we should seriously discuss sanctions against russia, which i believe is a wrong policy, indeed a non-policy.
i thank all members for understanding the importance of respecting speaking time during this debate. i also thank commissioners füle and de gucht for their contribution to the timeliness of the meeting. (the sitting was suspended for a few moments) the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. - i did not vote in favour of the saryusz-wolski report because i believe that this agreement once again demonstrates the eu's indifference and inability to respond immediately to italian agriculture affected by the russian embargo.
in writing. - i voted against because the eu's policy towards russia is wrong. we should instead be getting closer to the russian federation and not following foreign-imposed policies that only benefit the us. we are suffering heavy damage from the sanctions policy that the eu is pursuing. no more sanctions on russia, no more playing american puppet!
in writing. - today i voted in favour of the eu-ukraine association agreement, which includes a deep and comprehensive free trade area (dcfta). the agreement will establish a stronger political link and economic integration between the eu and ukraine and provide free and reciprocal access to markets. the european choice of ukraine will be institutionalised and its political, social and economic future will be linked to the future of the eu. ukrainian society has paid the highest price for its european aspirations, in terms of human and economic losses. with this ratification, the eu recognises this sacrifice and offers ukraine concrete and tangible support.
in writing. - when you start a common path it 's always better to do it on solid foundations: the association agreement between the european union and ukraine was concluded at an unfavourable time, both institutionally and economically. the conflict situation and the continuing uncertainty about some responsibilities, on either side, would be sufficient reasons to prolong a more than appropriate reflection on the rapprochement of a country like ukraine with complex and varied realities such as the single market and the european union. we know that this agreement is more political than substantive and that it is more of a signal, but the price of this signal is paid by ordinary citizens who suffer the consequences of the imposition of sanctions which do not take account of the two-way link between russian and european economic reality. in such a complex situation, reflection and dialogue between the two sides in conditions of peace and stability are necessary, and only in this way can strategic decisions be taken, particularly in a country such as ukraine, which has been in need of a series of structural reforms for years.
in writing. - i have expressed my firm conviction that the association agreement between the european union and ukraine should be ratified. for the first time in history, two parliaments voted simultaneously on an agreement which will establish a deep political association and mutual economic integration. the chambers of the parliaments of strasbourg and kiev have come together today in a spirit of unity, expressing a strong desire for dialogue and cooperation. it is not just a formal act but a significant moment, which will pave the way for an intense cultural and commercial exchange. the political arrangements will bring ukraine closer to the european union, opening new channels of political dialogue and establishing basic rules for cooperation in strategic areas such as energy, transport and education. today is a day of celebration for the democracy of the ukrainian people and the people of europe!
in writing. - it was exciting to participate in this vote simultaneously with the verkhovna rada. it was a historic vote not only because of the role of technology in making the moment memorable, but also because my intention in voting in favour was to take a step towards ending the misunderstanding with russia. it is now up to ukraine to take those steps necessary to secure peace, particularly in terms of concessions to the regions that have the most affinity with russia. i am concerned that the self-determination of peoples, peace and the conditions for prosperity prevail.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this agreement, which was ratified today by both the european parliament and the ukrainian parliament. a good sign of democracy, which confirms the union's support for this country and, with the creation of a free trade area, the basis for cooperation in areas such as energy, transport and education. it is now essential that ukraine implements those important reforms which make democracy a reality, by fighting internal problems, especially corruption. respect for the rule of law and human rights remains a fundamental condition for the eu and today, with this agreement, i believe we have taken a step in that direction. we hope to see the fruits of this choice soon.
in writing. - i think it's unwise to vote for a free trade agreement, which will start in 2016, between europe and ukraine. whereas part of the territory of ukraine is the scene of fighting over the dispute over certain regions and the number of people killed, according to the un, between regular troops and pro-russian rebels, is 2 086 victims, including 20 children; the european union is not prepared to accept the death toll of 1129 people, as estimated by the united nations, on 26 july, but the current situation shows that the civil conflict has intensified without any international awareness being generated. for these reasons i shall abstain from voting on this act in circumstances such as the ukraine, which are very unclear at the moment.
in writing. - for over 20 years, europe has been looking forward to a free trade agreement with ukraine, a country directly bordering the eu. the association agreement is an important step forward in regional cooperation. ukraine is now a 'most favoured nation' for europe, and can now apply free trade conditions equivalent to those enjoyed by its trading partners under gatt. this is an important step from the economic and commercial point of view, of course, but one which, at the moment, has a wider political significance. the association agreement, in fact, not only highlights the importance of the market economy, but also underlines the eu's support for the defence of democratic values and human rights. it is through the protection of ukraine's independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity that important achievements for peace and stability on the whole european continent can be achieved. europe can do so much for ukraine. the ukrainian people need support and they must not feel alone, they must know that they can count on us. the euromaidan is an important signal which we cannot ignore. the pro-european ukrainian youth have a right to be heard by a europe which guarantees democratic principles.
in writing. - the eu-ukraine association agreement confirms the eu's poor foreign policy choices. this agreement will fuel tensions and hostilities with russia without regard for the real needs of the ukrainian people and the citizens of europe.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of the recommendation by mr jacek saryusz-wolski. the eu-ukraine association agreement (aa) will be the steering wheel for europe's efforts to strengthen relations with ukraine. but given the complex and troubled situation today, ratification of the agreement reached last june takes on deeper meaning and is also an important signal of democracy and support for the ukrainian people. i hope that the ukrainian government will be able to embark on a serious reform process from tomorrow.
in writing. - in line with this parliament and the ukrainian parliament, which voted in favour of the agreement at the same time, i consider today's vote to be a real page in the history of the european union. the association agreement strengthens the political partnership and cooperation in the fields of energy, transport and education between the european union and kiev in a particularly delicate international context. we intend to vote in full support of europe for the territorial integrity of ukraine and for a speedy and peaceful settlement of the conflict with russia.
in writing. - i voted against the association agreement in question because i believe that any agreement with the ukrainian government requires a much more thorough debate than is currently taking place. our parliament has given itself too little time to deal with matters that are inescapable in the midst of civil war. these are the points which i think should be clarified before any agreement is reached, in the present situation of war and international tension: • the union's member states cannot simultaneously provoke russia by de facto including ukraine in nato. • the eu should ask the government in kiev, which half of ukrainians consider illegitimate, to dissolve immediately the far-right or neo-nazi militias such as the azov battalion, which are now under the ministry of the interior in kiev. • the russian populations in eastern and southern ukraine must be protected, otherwise we will give vladimir putin every reason to intervene, including by force. the decree outlawing the communist party of ukraine should also be revoked on grounds of principle. • we should seriously discuss sanctions against russia: i think that's the wrong policy. in fact, it is non-political.
in writing. - i voted against mr moraes' report because it is part of the general eu-ukraine association agreement and i think that it is at the moment the pulse of a short-sighted europe which, by sanctioning russia, is putting our entrepreneurs, who are affected by the russian embargo, in crisis.
in writing. - this measure is complementary to the other agreement. they share the same basic spirit, and that is why i voted in favour of this agreement as well. however, it was appropriate to deal with the matter in a different legal context because of the implications this may have on internal security and social issues.
in writing. - i voted against the deal. ukraine is pursuing a wrong foreign policy towards russia, of provocation and bombing of civilian populations.
in writing. - today i voted in favour of the eu-ukraine association agreement, which includes a deep and comprehensive free trade area (dcfta). in view of the important historical relations between the european union and ukraine and the current political situation in the european neighbourhood, i am convinced that this is a strategic axis which will strengthen the european union's international position.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this agreement, which was ratified today by both the european parliament and the ukrainian parliament. the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the eu-ukraine association agreement, which aims to promote the integration of the eu into the ukrainian economy. this support from the union must now be the lever through which ukraine will have to commit itself to improving its internal democracy, bringing it ever closer to that of the european union and the member states.
in writing. - the eu-ukraine association agreement is the first of a new generation of association agreements with eastern partnership countries. the deepening of political and economic relations between ukraine and the european union should be accelerated. it must be the eu's task to strengthen and broaden relations in an ambitious and innovative way. it is essential that ukrainian workers legally employed in the territory of a member state are subject to the laws, conditions and procedures applicable in each member state and the european union is not subject to any discriminatory treatment. i can therefore only vote in favour.
in writing. - the eu-ukraine association agreement confirms the eu's poor foreign policy choices. this agreement will fuel tensions and hostilities with russia without regard for the real needs of the ukrainian people and the citizens of europe. article 17 of this agreement cannot therefore be dissociated from the political assessment of the agreement as a whole.
in writing. - today the european parliament gave the green light to the association agreement of ukraine with the european union with a large majority in favour. it is a historic moment because for the first time a vote was held simultaneously in two parliaments, the ukrainian and the european, on the ratification of an agreement. this agreement will be the first of a new generation of association agreements with eastern partnership countries, which will allow for the deepening of political and economic relations between ukraine and the european union.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr moraes' report because i believe it represents the result of a further, civil development in relations between the european union and neighbouring ukraine. the document, which complements the content of the agreement aimed at establishing a deep political and economic association between the two countries, conveys, in addition to a clear political meaning, a message of openness, of extremely symbolic value. i find that the file, which follows the council's call for the eu-ukraine association agreement to be divided into two decisions (one of which specifically regulated the treatment of european citizens and ukrainians legally employed as employees in the territory of the other party) is characterised by absolute historical consistency. it represents a new point of reference for the parties in the field of regulation at a time when the eu and ukraine are becoming increasingly close.
in writing. - i decided to vote against because the article in question is part of the general association agreement between the eu and ukraine, which i am not in favour of.
in writing. the level of non-payments by the european commission is alarming. thousands of small and medium-sized enterprises are failing because of the long wait for the eu funding that should be provided to help growth and development in a time of economic stagnation. liquidity problems threaten the survival of firms and the functioning of the real economy, leading to a deepening loss of confidence in the institutions. it is therefore necessary to unblock and speed up the problem of payments and reallocate resources to key areas such as employment, small and medium-sized enterprises, the fight against corruption, immigration and microfinance, by cutting down on administrative waste within the european institutions and their advisory bodies. a more realistic spending planning would help to avoid continuous requests for additional funds through amending budgets within the european budget, a procedure which is in clear contrast to the need for member states to contain their budgets. it is necessary to identify programmes that do not add value and that do not perform efficiently in order to free up resources to be committed to growth and jobs.
it's a blue-card question. i'm not sure what it is. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to know whether the commission intends to do anything, given that italy holds the presidency, but given that, according to calculations, 120 billion in fraud has been committed... the budget needs to be better controlled, because in italy, for example, 60 billion euros end up in uncontrolled fraud, out of 120 billion in the whole of europe. i ask whether the honourable member intends to do anything during the six months of the italian presidency.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are again here today to discuss the problem of payments and cuts in the union budget, in this case for the horizon 2020 programme. we are talking about one of the most important initiatives at european level, about 80 billion for research and innovation. in practice, however, less than a year after its launch, we are already faced with severe cuts which risk jeopardizing the entire implementation of the project. at this point, i'd like to ask a simple question: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. if research and innovation are used only as a promotional tool, then the matter is quite different. i hope that the commission and the council will give us a clear answer. but if europe does not believe in research and innovation, at least let the member states invest in this area, taking these items out of the calculation of the absurd constraints imposed by the european union's stability and growth pact.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, a fundamental virtue, i would say a virtue in politics and in the institutions, and this also applies to europe, should be consistency, that is, a correspondence between our proclamations, our objectives and the subsequent acts we adopt, otherwise i believe we ourselves are fuelling the mistrust in europe, in that europe in which we believe so much, because we ourselves, we say, are not true to our commitments. i say this because if we look at two figures in this budget - i know they have been quoted before but repeatedly - i hope that if we look at two figures we will see how much inconsistency there is in this council proposal. the council has not yet adopted the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in heading 1 there is cosme, there is the joint research centre, very important. there are so many meaningful chapters. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. well, i say to the council with great warmth: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is now impossible for this parliament, which is more ambitious and is also encouraged by an electoral audit, to accept conditions which would set us back. so we were promised front loading, an upload, to say: we're going to put more resources in the first few years because we need a boost for growth. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i would like to say that i am not in favour of the commission's proposals. so i say this, you know: the council's position is not the usual pretentious one, but it is the consistency we want to have in respect of the institutions. i believe we will make a great alliance with the next commission to restore the commitments made.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in a time of crisis such as the present one, it is right that the completion of the digital single market and the european agenda should be at the heart of the initiatives and decisions taken by europe, but we must make sure that the beneficiaries of the completion of the digital single market are above all ordinary citizens. more investment is needed in the training of young people to ensure that they are ready to enter a completely restructured labour market. the digital economy is growing seven times faster than the traditional economy and could provide a decisive boost to get out of the crisis. but first and foremost, europe needs physical infrastructure. in italy, very many households are still not connected to broadband, a result well below the european average. it's time to start building these networks. the specific characteristics of each member state should be protected. what is the commission's long-term plan? the italian government has repeatedly stated, including at digital venice in july, that completing the connected continent package, and thus the completion of the digital single market, is at the heart of the european presidency's six-month term. now it would seem that everything is rather in the open sea. what is the commission's view of the progress of this dossier and what is the actual timetable? what about the advances made on net neutrality that are in that package? i believe it is essential that we do not back down on this crucial aspect in order to guarantee free and equal access to knowledge for all, without discrimination, limitation or interference.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, we have a long way to go to build a true digital single market. progress has been made, much remains to be done. i think there are three priorities, but they are not adequately resolved in the things that await us. the first, which has been mentioned many times and not by chance, concerns the protection of personal data. without uniformity, we will not have fair competition between businesses and at the same time we will have the denial of one of the fundamental rights of citizenship, which is that of privacy. the second is excessive concentration and the presence of dominant players. this isn't a market. there are places, spaces of oligopoly that need to be overcome. we must introduce what is the fundamental rule in any market: the opportunity to compete on equal terms. the third concerns copyright. if we do not defend and promote those who think and therefore create innovation in an area which is itself objectively characterized by innovation processes, we risk once again having conditions which deny the market and favour the processes of concentration which we want to combat.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank commissioner barnier for his many activities, including those relating to the social economy. we want to make europe an industrially-led, highly advanced continent, but i wonder: is europe really a continent ready for the digital age? are we making all the choices and taking all the actions that are necessary? probably not, not yet. and so we have to push a lot, both on the digital single market, on the package that is being negotiated, on the things that have been said here and also on many other steps that we have to take, but with a vision like europe and a very clear project. we must therefore aim - i say three adjectives, but they imply many legislative choices and not just - at a europe that is connected, open and secure. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. are we ready, with the juncker plan, to really go in this direction? are we ready, for example, for countries that invest in digital to take this out of budget constraints? i think it should be done. connected means accessibility, means openness, means that single market and a single authority which we have long called for, means interoperability, means zero roaming, means many things and many choices, even concrete ones. secondly, open. open data, the open internet, is a benchmark for us. it means accessibility for disadvantaged groups as well, and it also means open internet governance and network management that takes everyone into account, strengthening stakeholders and also user and citizen participation. finally, security the issue of privacy which has been repeatedly raised.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, a few weeks ago i read an interesting interview with the prime minister of south korea. when the interviewer asked him what was the secret of this country's rapid growth, to get out of poverty, to become quickly the fourth largest economy in asia and, i think, the 15th largest economy on the planet, the prime minister answered very simply. it said: "we bought it. over the last decades we've spent our time investing in education, education, training and we've spent our time investing in broadband connectivity, we've wired our country". the result is that today in our pockets there is samsung and there is less nokia, the result is that each of us, in our pockets has either a mobile phone or has a video or has a chipset, or in the car has a piece of technology from that country and less and less of our technology. so when i heard the commissioner's beautiful statement, that with technology, with digital innovation, for every job lost in traditional sectors, more than two jobs are gained in new sectors, it comes to mind that we are losing traditional jobs and someone else is gaining new jobs. so much so that in recent years we have lost several million jobs in europe without gaining any new ones. (the president cut off the speaker)
the agenda includes the discussion of the statements by the council and the commission on the un climate summit in 2014 (23 september 2014 - new york) (2014/2847 ((rsp)).
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i must say that we are really very surprised, because i have here with me the final document of the european council of 20 and 21 march 2014, where the section on 'climate and energy' confirms the strategic framework for action to achieve the specific objectives of the european union set for both 2030 and 2050 the most ambitious ones. the document again speaks of increasing energy production from renewable sources, further reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, modernization of the energy sector, energy security in both supply and supply of energy, and who could disagree with all this? who could possibly object to that? but then we find out once again that words do not match facts, because this document was signed by juncker, who has just appointed as the commissioner-designate for climate and energy miguel arias cañete, who was a businessman in the oil industry and who has clearly spoken in favour of fracking techniques, i.e. highly polluting techniques such as hydraulic fracking. the same applies to renzi, who was a signatory to the same document, and who at the same time implemented a measure which is totally unconstitutional in italy, to double oil extraction in the adriatic sea, in the ionian sea, on the sicilian coast, and on the mainland in basilicata and sicily. gentlemen, we are in europe, so these are also your seas and these are also your lands. all this with the complicity of the farmer pittella, who then sold his land. so i turn to you, colleagues. we do not trust these people who say things and then do the exact opposite of what they say. if we do not want to be complicit in their activities, we must monitor every single measure they take, because we must never trust those who betray our country.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this summer in the south, in my saffron field in italy, when the oranges were still in exceptional bloom in the middle of august, i was already picking spontaneous broccoli months in advance. why am i telling you this? several years ago, we would never have thought we would end up here and have these responsibilities. we were learning about climate change. a long time ago now. we have been sitting here for years, comfortably, arguing, while outside this change is a serious reality. it eats up victims, it sparks conflicts over resources, it increases migration flows. it is a perfect storm, social and energy, climatic and economic, that is not yet understood or accepted. we care more about the market and the failure of banks than we do about the chaos of the natural systems on which we depend. very soon, the same extreme solutions that today seem politically impractical, economically impractical, will become the only way out for everyone. we're about to rewrite our history, the history of humanity in new york.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it has already been said that the international roadmap for climate policy has important milestones ahead of it in the coming months: the un climate summit in new york next week, the 20th conference of the parties in lima next december and finally the agreement that will emerge from the paris conference in 2015. the un summit is a valuable opportunity to re-launch the urgency of decisive decisions for a global policy to combat climate change. we must say that the european union has always played a leading role in climate policy, a role which will have to be reaffirmed by the new climate 2030 package and which i hope the new commission will be willing to play. also because it's true what many speakers before me have said: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances is a very good one. but we have to be serious. the european effort alone is not enough, because then it becomes a zero-sum game for europe. we must fight climate change with a global agreement, which has unfortunately not yet been reached. for this reason, i believe that the european union should step up its initiative and play a more active role alongside traditional diplomacy. (the president cut the speaker off)
question for the second part of question time madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to ask the honourable member whether she is aware that oil extraction may not be compatible with the objectives we are talking about. i would like to know whether you are aware that fracking has repercussions with very significant environmental damage on the ground, and i would like to know whether you are aware that exposure to hydrocarbons is carcinogenic.
answer to a blue-card question. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i will take less than 30 seconds to answer the honourable member, partly because i do not understand where these questions come from in relation to my speech, which i was not even able to conclude. secondly, i think that these are such technical matters that i think that in this house, which is a more political place, it might be worthwhile to focus on other issues and, above all, to highlight the effort that we all make together - because that is what this is about - to bring about changes in climate change policies now.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i hear talk of climate change still in the future: "will happen", "will occur", "will be made". in fact, the effects of global warming are an emergency already in place, and the term "climate refugees" is sadly a recent one. the summit next week will be held in new york. well, it's a few months ago, in march 2014, a worrying data that concerns the united states: 65 percent of respondents in one survey know that global warming is happening, but half of them don't think it will pose any serious risks or consequences. we call for the european union to be a leader in combating climate change, including by engaging productively with the world of science, with the world of science dissemination, with information and with public involvement. we have heard in this house how much we need accurate scientific information, since some people still do not believe in climate change. we call for the european union to speak with one voice and to play a leading role in the international climate negotiations. a new agreement must be found by the next paris summit, otherwise next year's summit will end as the previous ones: so many promises and so few deeds.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we expect the next climate summit in new york to make progress towards a new global agreement on the future international climate regime and measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. the european union must be the promoter of an agreement that obliges all countries to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions and must propose a solid and stable regulatory framework. the summit should be an opportunity to mobilise all states in favour of climate protection and to show that, with the right technological and financial support, emerging and developing countries can effectively reduce co2 emissions without compromising their economic growth. unfortunately, china and india, the world's first and third largest polluters, have announced that they will not be attending the summit. in line with the shared 2030 targets, decarbonisation can be accelerated by implementing a range of measures including a programme for the phasing-out of high-carbon fuels and technologies, a global carbon tax and the overcoming of tariff barriers and low-emission technologies. today is the international day for the preservation of the ozone layer. i hope that the new european commission, which has combined energy and climate... (the president withdrew the floor to the speaker.)
it's a blue-card question. i'm not sure what it is. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, mr caputo, i would like to ask you how you reconcile your statements, which i agree with, with what are in fact facts, with what you are doing in italy by granting new oil concessions at sea, despite the statements you have just made about the need to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and the consumption of fossil fuels.
answer to a blue-card question. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i am of course responsible for my ideas and for the things i say. i have said things which you share, so i do not understand the reason for your question and i take advantage of it to continue the reasoning i have just given. i was saying that today, on the international day for the protection of the ozone layer, i hope that the new european commission, which has combined the energy and climate issues, will be able to take all the necessary measures to keep the global temperature rise to less than two degrees celsius, without hiding its head under the sand or, worse, under a sack of coal.
it's a blue-card question. i'm not sure what it is. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, mr president, are you aware that croatia is drilling, has decided to drill for oil throughout the adriatic and is already doing so? does that conflict with what you just said?
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i think that the points raised by the commissioner are important, particularly as regards the expectations that were placed on this agreement. it was a difficult agreement, one which logically posed the problem of transparency, posed the problem of protecting our small and mediumsized enterprises, but posed the problem of opening up a large market. i think that a very good job has been done, and a very good job has been done particularly on the process of involving small and mediumsized enterprises. the protection of geographical indications is an important achievement, since 125 of the 145 pgi are protected, guaranteed and placed in a context, in a major international market. i want to reflect on this aspect, however. i think it is important that each member state be asked to provide the instruments, to provide the leadership, to support a process of participation by small and mediumsized enterprises which, however, because of their size and characteristics, are not suited to achieving in precise and concrete terms an immediate capacity to understand these rules, these schemes and these agreements. so, in order to have an effect, in order to have an automatic effect, we must make it possible for each member state to have a guardian, to have a trustee, to have financial and economic support. we are in a time of crisis, we are in a time where the small and medium-sized businesses are closing, we are in a time where the suburbs are left alone to try to figure out how to solve this problem. i therefore believe that the agreement reached is important, but i believe that it is not enough, i believe that we must, with sensitivity and vision, give dimension to this role of opening up the market to a europe which needs, in its small and medium-sized sector, to find dignity, to find capacity, to find an outlet that can certainly be achieved, because i would also add that - and i should stress this - the list of geographical indications is not closed, the list of geographical indications still has the possibility, in addition to having parmigiano reggiano, of having, for example - i come from sardinia - the sardinian sheep and the roman sheep. therefore, my commitment - and i will ask my other sardinian colleagues to do the same - will be to introduce other protections, other geographical identities, other possibilities and opportunities for territories that need today, compared to a system that is suffering, to finally find a different outlet.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, just like ttip, ceta is an agreement conceived in secret in the rooms of brussels, decided by bureaucrats who were elected by no one and who will have to answer to no one for what they do. and just like ttip, the consequences for citizens will be as unknown as they are harmful, because actually eliminating tariffs is not the only thing, but we have seen that all the barriers to selling a product in a state that has different regulations are removed. so we probably give gmos a free pass on our tables, and canada does not respect the same environmental constraints that small and mediumsized businesses in europe are subject to. i have said on other occasions that canada has not signed the extension of the kyoto protocol. i am an entrepreneur and i know what it means to produce in europe with environmental and health-protective constraints, which i do share. but do you have any idea what that means? how can our small and mediumsized enterprises compete with those who are not obliged to comply with these restrictions? and then we talk about the environment. when oil is extracted from the tar sands in the alberta region of canada, entire forests are being deforested. with this deal, we may have access to cheaper oil, but at what price? and then there's the isds clause. it is a clause, gentlemen, which would be truly ridiculous if it were not so dangerous. it allows a multinational to sue a state. so, colleagues, i am addressing you all with a public consultation that was held when everything had already been decided... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the debate on ceta today has again been about the economic benefits, the need for the agreement. in fact, like the ttip, of which it is a precursor, ceta aims to put the interests of the private sector and business above rights, social justice, democratic control and economic sustainability. once again we are faced with negotiations being conducted without the slightest possibility of public scrutiny. in particular, we are concerned about the lack of a clear assessment of the social impact of the agreement, together with the almost total lack of guarantees for the safeguarding of social protection and the labour market. once again the idea of trade agreements prevailing as a wedge to break up the system of labour support in europe and canada to the benefit of profit and income. the commission has not fought to safeguard labour and welfare standards and this result is in plain sight. we will not make concessions, we will build inside and outside this parliament a great campaign against ceta, as well as against all agreements such as ttip which put liberalism before... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by mentioning the positive aspects of the agreement with canada, which i believe can be an opportunity for our production system to integrate with a system not only economic but also social and cultural, not far from the european one. even in the light of the contingent geopolitical situation which was discussed in this house yesterday and today, it can be considered a step towards strengthening europe's trade partnership with the most reliable players in the world. i would like to stress in particular the appreciation for the achievement of a good compromise on the question of geographical indications, especially in view of canada's traditional estrangement from this system. in general, i think it is the role of this parliament to judge this negotiation with the utmost care, clarity and candor, remaining as close as possible to the letter of the negotiation itself, avoiding an understandable but risky overlap with the debate on ttip, which would confuse the plans and undermine the good parts of this negotiation. we think, and i do think, that there are still many aspects of this agreement which can be improved, and that is why we ask the commission to take all possible steps in this direction.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, employment and growth depend above all on a trade policy which is geared to helping businesses and exploiting international demand. that is why the eu-canada agreement is crucial. ceta could bring great benefits to all industrial sectors. the compromise on the recognition of certain geographical indications, which is not exhaustive, is certainly a positive step. the european union is canada's second largest trading partner, after the united states. the ceta agreement is therefore of fundamental importance. however, this agreement must not be tainted by the isds clause. if this clause were to be applied, a multinational company investing in a country would be able to challenge the national government of that country through the use of international arbitration procedures, effectively bypassing the ordinary judicial system. a kind of parallel jurisdiction mechanism could therefore be created which would strip the state of the right to have the last word on very sensitive matters. i therefore call on the commission to listen to and take account of the views of the european parliament.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, this agreement contains many opportunities: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. an important result was also achieved on the protection of european geographical indications. for most of the indications on the negotiating list we are getting full recognition in the north american market, which has been a real off-limits zone for our agri-food exports. this is a significant result, but it cannot be fully satisfactory. the european union must show greater ambition in protecting its quality products in the world. but beyond the technical evaluation of the text, this agreement and the ttip in prospect are even more important in view of the evolution of relations with russia and the deadlock in other bilateral negotiations. finally, a very thorough reflection will certainly be required on the dispute settlement mechanism, the so-called isds, also on the basis of the consultation initiated. i believe, however, that this reflection should not prejudice a balanced assessment of the agreement a priori.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i welcome this debate, both because i am a dentist and because i am familiar with the tragedy of hepatitis c and because we in the five star movement generally believe that the ethical principles which should inspire the pharmaceutical industry should always prevail over the logic of the market. the new commission portfolios provide for more powers on medicines for the commissioner for industry, while in each member state the minister for health is responsible for this. how do we think we are going to serve the interests of the citizens when the dg for industry is going to be responsible for this rather than the european institution for public health? how is it possible that in this parliament, which is in fact dominated by catholics and which is frequently reminded of the values of respect for and protection of life, no serious action is taken to reduce the cost of essential medicines? just today, a number of ngos in the sector wrote in alarm: "isn't the life of us citizens the most important value to defend? "
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am faced with criticism because of what commissioner katainen said, that we need to consolidate our banking system, because we are apparently giving a lot of liquidity to the banks. since the last few years we have done the long-term refinancing operation through the ecb, we have given away many billions, but no borrowing constraints from the real economy. now they've been announced by the ecb - i'm sorry draghi isn't here to talk about it - about the possible operations with a target on these long-term refinancing operations. what's the problem? it's that if you read the way these transactions are done, there's no real constraint, because if you read the technical document carefully instead of making announcements there's no real constraint on borrowing from the real economy. so we would like, as mr lambert has said, to have a clearer and more decisive position on the regulation of the financial sector, because if we lend money to the banks or give the banks the possibility of obtaining liquidity, but do not give them the constraints of borrowing from the real economy, we will not be able to revive our economies and get out of this crisis.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i wanted to address myself to commissioner katainen because from what he says... perhaps he is used to talking to his countrymen, i'll give an example, a well-known finnish formula one driver, i think his name is - excuse the pronunciation - raikkonen or something like that, who earns millions of euros. why don't you come with me? i'm the mayor of a town in wallis, burgundy. i get them every saturday morning when the town market is. i put a table and two chairs in the square and i receive people. of every 100 people i see, 90 ask me for work and money, because this europe has slaughtered people. she speaks... he has a hairstyle, i'm joking, like a cow licked him. come to me on saturday morning and you'll see that your hair will grow like the son of the mayor of new york, dante de blasio, because you'll get a head like that, because you do not go ahead and talk to ordinary people, you only talk to the big bureaucrats, the big banks that have slaughtered the country. the banks take money at practically zero, and sell it back at 10 to 15 per cent to entrepreneurs and families, and that is the shame of this europe, and you continue to go on this front. and instead of coming to italy to lecture us... (the president withdraws the floor.)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in italy those who criticise the renzi government for its lack of growth are called "owls". here in europe you, commissioner katainen, are referred to as the "hawk" of rigor. so politics likes to make these comparisons to the animal world. i would therefore like to make one myself, saying that you are treating the citizens of europe as lambs to be slaughtered, sacrificed on the altar of your absurd economic policies. when will you realize that what you've done so far has been a failure and a disaster? when will you realize that you can't get out of the crisis by giving three trillion dollars to the banks and doing nothing for the companies and citizens? when will you realise that the keyword for getting europe out of the crisis is not fiscal austerity but solidarity? i want to close with a piece of advice. the next eurozone summit should be held on the outskirts of european cities, among the desperate people who no longer have a job, no longer have a home, whose hope you have stolen. talk to them every week, face to face, like i do every week. go home, look in the mirror, and ask yourself, are we doing the right thing?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it seems to me that what we might call a jackson hole consensus is emerging under the weight of the crisis, namely the recognition that we must overcome the one-dimensional approaches of the past and instead build a set of policies which must be structural, but also monetary and fiscal. in this sense i appreciate that commissioner katainen has recognised that we need reforms, but also investment and that there is a deficit in competitiveness, but also in aggregate demand. but words are not enough, of course. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we need the details of juncker's 300 billion plan, and we need to be consistent with what you, commissioner katainen, said: the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. so fresh money and a real leverage in the markets. and then there's tax policy. the issue of flexibility. flexibility is not an exception to the rule, flexibility is part of the rule. in fact, the rules prescribe the use of flexibility to avoid pro-cyclical policies in conditions like these. so the issue is that of correcting the fiscal position of the eurozone, not of some countries, which is consistent with the growth objective and which favours those structural reforms which alone, without a coherent fiscal policy, are more difficult and less effective.
it's a blue-card question. i'm not sure what it is. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the question i ask myself and my colleague is whether we know the difference between mobility and precariousness, because in italy, for example, we experience mobility as an obligation, a constraint, in a work situation that is at an all-time low. the work is blackmail, the work of young people is simply precarious, as is that of millions of italians. i would ask the commission, the council, anyone who can and must do something to give answers to the question of... (the president cut the speaker off)
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has spoken very well today. the eu that helps young people, the eu that gives money to young people because young people are our future, our hope. the italian presidency's words are perfectly in the style of the rhenish presidency: i made promises. we must invest in young people, young people are at the top of our priorities. but there's a big contradiction going on here, i wonder: are you in or out? because you say there are no jobs for young people and at the same time you say that we need 50 million immigrants because there is a shortage of labour. another all-european madness. the internal market is essentially blocked. what do you do? sanction russia. what are you doing? so many young farmers who had hoped to enter the russian market are now at risk of losing their jobs. what's the big deal? and then think of new sanctions, for the fashion, furniture market, so those young people who had hoped for this find themselves without a chance. there you go, six billion dollars on nothing. (the president cut the speaker off)
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner andor and mr della vedova, i very much appreciate that the italian presidency's priorities are above all to find the basis for more youth employment and i think there is a general awareness of the tragedy we are experiencing in europe, and i would remind mr bizzotto that italy was one of the first countries to adopt the youth guarantee and also to have raised it to twenty-nine years, something which the other countries have not done. but i would like to say this on a more european level, namely that we have demonstrated with this guarantee to young people that it is certainly not a total answer, it is the macroeconomic issue that andor was talking about earlier, that is, a topic concerning the capacity to recover. but it is a method, a different approach that demonstrates two things: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the question of the future of the european union, and whether it is not already aware that the european union is not yet ready to take a decision on the future of the european union. in this context, the importance of erasmus+ in building european citizenship and educational and job mobility should not be overlooked... (the president cut the speaker off)
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, during the election campaign the presidential candidates promised us that they would win back the betrayed trust of the electorate in the institutions by means of innovative measures, particularly the trust of young people, to whom programmes were addressed as a guarantee that young people would have and could change the destiny of an entire generation. the reality is very different. we are here today to discuss a commission which has nothing innovative about it. its composition is the same as five years ago, with some commissioners even being recycled into new positions. youth will have no prominent role in the executive. why isn't he in any of the macro areas assigned to super vice presidents? why do you think you are entrusting the fate of young europeans, the future citizens of europe, to a controversial figure like the candidate commissioner navracsics? in short, once again you are deceiving the european citizens with your talk, especially the young people who are fighting unprecedented levels of unemployment and who will jeopardize their future and with it that of the whole of europe.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, youth unemployment in europe remains at unacceptable levels, just as unacceptable is the appalling european average of 23%, not to mention the countries where it exceeds 50%. let us remember that without work there are no rights, there is no freedom, there is no future, and without the support of young people there is no future for the union. i am glad that the member states, as well as italy - my country - are taking action to implement the youth guarantee. i thank commissioner andor for the work he has done in a difficult context, that of the barroso commission. at the same time, however, it must be stressed that the financial allocation is not sufficient. to have a real impact, these initiatives need to become structural measures to support youth employment. on 30 june, angela merkel made it clear at a press conference that she did not think the eu was doing enough to tackle youth unemployment, but it was precisely the austerity policies she championed that prevented her from taking more decisive action against youth unemployment. we look forward to the revision of the multiannual financial framework and the juncker plan to combat unemployment.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it would have been a great opportunity to guarantee young people in italy - we have unemployment at 43 per cent - but unfortunately it has not been so. only six regions have been accredited between the public and private sectors. very few questions, very few job offers, especially 90 percent of them on a fixed-term basis, and then something tragic happens for the young people. you know that when you join the youth project, if you only work a few hours a day you lose access, and that is very serious, because it means that only young people who are staying at home and who are supported by their parents can afford it. so we give these funds not so much and not just for training and internships, but really for the integration of young people into the world of work. and then there is unfortunately a kind of overlap between the youth guarantee scheme and the ministry of labour's work programme. why is that? because he hasn't updated. there are still too many things that are not working and this is very serious.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, mr della vedova, you said earlier that italy is very concerned about the use of european funds for young people and, above all, is very concerned about the quality of these european funds, how they are used. he was referring to the "genovese case", where in sicily for years these european funds were used for his private purposes instead of for training and now he is accused of abuse of office, fraud, association with criminals and was protected by you by putting him in parliament and now he is a parliamentarian? or was he referring to the system whereby training courses in sardinia, financed with european funds, were used by putting up cartoons? is this the quality you want to give to young italians and europeans?
i welcome the announcement by commissioner andor of the increase in funding but, as under-secretary della vedova has pointed out, the allocation is still insufficient, more needs to be done. in sicily, the data are not worrying, but literally tragic. youth unemployment is well over twice the european average: in 2013, 53 percent, in 2014 the diste estimated it at 60 percent. our indexes are not falling, they are rising! we must concentrate, through structural measures and reforms, on those countries which suffer most from the lack of schooling which is the cause of social exclusion and unemployment. a particular understanding of the growing inequalities within and between member states is required. in southern italy, the "youth guarantee" is not taking off, membership is growing but not employment, questions are not being answered because businesses are failing. we must take action, including a different allocation of funds and the failure to include the deficit criteria, in other words, a different approach, so as not to repeat some of the obvious errors of the 'guarantee' that we already know.
in writing. - i agree with the positions expressed in mr ni riada's report, and i therefore voted in favour of the mobilisation of 0.5% of the egf to cover technical assistance expenditure on the commission's initiative.
in writing. - technical vote. i voted to allocate the fund.
in writing. - between 2007 and 2013, more than €400 million was allocated to tens of thousands of workers made redundant as a result of globalisation and the economic crisis. the target? re-skilling to find a new job or launch a new company. this aid was made available by the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf), which was set up to provide additional support for workers who have lost their jobs, for example in the event of a company closing or production relocating to a country outside the eu, or as a result of the global economic and financial crisis. i voted in favour of this report today because i agree with the proposed measures, which will help to simplify the application procedure and provide better access to the egf. i particularly support the extension of the scope of the fund's intervention to eligible beneficiaries, i.e. the selfemployed, and the provision of personalised services co-financed by the egf for a certain number of unemployed young people who are not in education or training. i also welcome the extension of the objectives and criteria of the egf to include and facilitate applications from regions and countries with a lower population density.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the mobilisation of eur 330 000 from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to cover technical assistance at the initiative of the commission. the fund was established to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade. the objective of technical assistance is to finance monitoring and information, to create a knowledge base/interface and to provide advice to member states in relation to the use, continuity and evaluation of the egf and i believe that these are all measures necessary for the effective use of the egf.
in writing. - given the usefulness of the globalisation adjustment fund in supporting all those firms in difficulty over the years, i can only agree to the allocation of eur 330 000 for technical assistance. this amount will be used to finance preparatory, monitoring, data collection, administrative and technical support, training and communication activities, the creation of a database, as well as audit, control and evaluation, which are necessary factors for the application of the egf regulation. i also support what the rapporteur, mrs ni riada, has said in her text, namely that the commission should be encouraged to increase the visibility of the egf in the context of further actions and that member states which have used this instrument should be encouraged to publicise the actions financed by it.
in writing. - i am convinced that technical assistance is very important in order to make the best use of european funds. i also think it is important that the european institutions start to provide a standard and proven technical assistance mechanism which gives the prospective recipients of european funds practical help in the planning, application and management of european resources. today, in many italian regions, the resources allocated to technical assistance are the subject of investigations and convictions by the authorities responsible. for the reasons stated above, i have decided to abstain.
in writing. - regulation (eu) no 1309/2013 provides that 0.5% of the maximum annual amount of the egf may be used annually for technical assistance (data update, simplification) on the initiative of the commission which finds my opinion favourable in requesting to mobilise an amount of € 330.000.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of mr liada's report because i consider the european globalisation adjustment fund to be a vital support for those who have lost their jobs as a result of the major structural changes in world trade due to globalisation. in times of crisis such as the present, the creation of new jobs and the protection of existing ones are absolute priorities of our political action.
in writing. the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) is part of the european union's financial support for certain sectors in difficulty in the member states and for workers who are suffering the consequences of the economic crisis. the commission proposal is to mobilise eur 330 000 from the fund to cover the assistance needed to simplify the application procedure and provide better access to data. in practice, experts from outside the european commission will be needed to improve and ensure the functionality of the database and to evaluate individual cases.
in writing. - we welcome the adoption of this report because we believe that the measures proposed by the commission can provide better technical assistance and help to simplify the application procedure for the activation of the egf. in particular, we will support the identified measures for the sharing of knowledge and information through a dedicated website, through the networking of expert groups and networks at local, regional and national level; we also support the extension of its scope to the eligible beneficiaries, i.e. the selfemployed, and the provision of personalised services to unemployed young people who are not in education or training and who are under 25 or, if the member states so decide, under 30. all these new circumstances mean that if we do not increase the resources available to the fund, we must at least return to the previous level of eur 500 million, taking into account in particular the enlargement of its field of intervention in line with the strategic priorities set by the eu. finally, we share the rapporteur's view that, for reasons of transparency and accountability, the inclusion of the egf in the budget of the european union should be promoted.
in writing. - i have decided to vote in favour of the report by mr ní riada because regulation (eu) no 1309/2013 provides that 0.5% of the maximum annual amount of the egf may be used annually for technical assistance at the initiative of the commission. the commission therefore proposes to mobilise an amount of € 330,000 to support the implementation of the
in writing. - i support the report by mr kyrtsos on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for 508 greek workers in the confectionery and bakery sector. the text provides for the allocation of €6 096 000 to reintegrate workers who have lost their jobs as a result of the globalisation process taking place in world markets.
in writing. - i voted in favour of supporting 508 workers in the pastry and bakery sector.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report today to provide additional support for the 508 nutriart workers who have lost their jobs in greece as a result of the world economic and financial crisis. following the bankruptcy of several companies, such as nutriart, the greek economy is undergoing a process of divestment in the secondary economic sector. according to the oecd, between 2008 and 2013 gross fixed capital formation decreased by 20%. according to official statistics, most people without a job are long-term unemployed, unemployment affecting both the younger generations and people in their fifties who have difficulty finding new employment. the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf), which provides support for those who have lost their jobs as a result of major structural changes in world trade due to globalisation, is becoming essential as more and more european businesses are forced to close.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the request, the sixth in the 2014 budget, for the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for a total amount of eur 6 096 000 for greece. the request was made by the greek authorities following the redundant placements made by nutriart s.a., a company active in the food industry. the greek authorities stated that the excess was mainly caused by the decrease in disposable household income, the late payment of most of nutriart's customers and the drastic reduction in loans to companies and individuals due to the lack of liquidity of the greek banks.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the globalisation adjustment fund following the redundancies of nutriat sa and 25 downstream suppliers and producers, as well as 24 selfemployed workers whose activities have ceased because they were dependent on the main undertaking in greece. in this particular case, i believe that the mobilisation of the fund can really give practical help to workers, first of all because a coordinated package of personalised services has been created for vocational guidance, training, retraining and advice on entrepreneurship. i am also pleased that for the first time the selfemployed will be included in the co-financing of the egf and that the idea has been put forward, which i hope will be successful, of setting up an incubator for new innovative enterprises.
in writing. - i am convinced that technical assistance is very important in order to make the best use of european funds. i also think it is important that the european institutions start to provide a standard and proven technical assistance mechanism which gives the prospective recipients of european funds practical help in the planning, application and management of european resources. today, in many italian regions, the resources allocated to technical assistance are the subject of investigations and convictions by the authorities responsible. for the reasons stated above, i have decided to abstain.
in writing. - the measure covers 508 workers in the confectionery and bakery sector, amounting to € 6 096 000. my vote was in favour of helping these workers, families and businesses in dire need.
in writing. - i shall vote in favour of the report by mr liadh ni riada. as in the other cases put to the vote today, it is a question of allocating resources to ensure the reintegration of certain dismissed workers into the labour market. in the present case, the workers of nutriart sa and the 25 suppliers and downstream producers who lost their jobs in greece as a result of the global economic and financial crisis. unfortunately, the failure of several greek companies is leading to a process of loss of production capacity and social discomfort. the european globalisation adjustment fund can make a positive and practical contribution to this.
in writing. - mr muresan's report is not clear and lacks information on the effects of the use of the funds requested on the competitive dynamics of the sector in the internal market, which is why i have abstained in this vote.
in writing. - i abstained. the commission decision does not contain any information on the effects of this move on the competitive dynamics of the sector in the internal market as a whole.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report today to provide additional support for 1 513 workers at the company mechel campia turzii who have lost their jobs in romania as a result of the world economic and financial crisis. the aim is to facilitate the rapid reintegration of these redundant workers into the labour market by means of personalised support measures, such as assistance in finding a job, vocational guidance, training and retraining, and promotion of self-employment and entrepreneurship.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the fourth request under the 2014 budget for the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for a total amount of eur 3 571 150 for romania. the application to mobilise the egf submitted by the romanian authorities concerns 825 redundancies in the company mechel campia turzii and in a downstream producer during a reference period of four months, as well as 688 redundancies which occurred outside the reference period but were attributable to the same collective redundancy procedure. the romanian authorities reported that the finished and semi-finished steel products manufacturing sector, in which the companies concerned were active, suffered from a severe economic disruption due to the rapid decline in the eu market share in the steel products sector and the increase in the market share of some countries, such as china.
in writing. - unfortunately, the case of the 1513 redundancies in the companies mechel campia turzii and mechel reparatii targoviste falls within this scenario of an employment crisis, mainly due to aggressive competition from companies in emerging countries, especially from china. i welcome the decision of the european commission to grant an egf allocation to the romanian authorities to initiate concrete measures to promote the reintegration of workers, the creation of self-employment and the creation of a package of personalised services. in addition to economic aid, we should not forget that there are local realities where local work is very limited and where it is businesses, such as those in question, that provide a livelihood for an entire population. it is also necessary to develop a european strategy for the steel products sector in order to keep it competitive.
in writing. - having regard to the request for assistance from the egf by romania in respect of the company mechel campia turzi sa, and having regard to the fact that the european adjustment fund was set up to provide additional support for workers who are suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in world trade, i can only vote in favour of this resolution also in order to support the reintegration of the displaced into the labour market.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of the report by mr siegfried mureşan, which provides for support for certain romanian companies active in the manufacture of finished and semi-finished steel products. in particular, the report provides for the allocation of resources necessary for the reintegration into the labour market of redundancies at mechel campia turzii sa and at one of its downstream producers (sc mechel reparatii targoviste srl), due to the major changes in the structure of world trade due to globalisation.
in writing. - i decided to abstain because through this vote 250 romanian workers from a steel company will each receive € 15,000 to create a cooperative company that will produce sports goods for a romanian company that in turn operates as a subcontractor for a multinational in the sector. neither the empl commission's letter nor the commission's decision contains any information on the effects of this move on the competitive dynamics of the sector in the whole internal market.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund to help the 280 unemployed workers in the catering industry in the aragon region of spain.
in writing. - i voted yes. yes to the support of 280 workers in the timber construction industry.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report today to provide additional support for workers in the catering industry in the aragon region of spain who have lost their jobs in spain as a result of the world economic and financial crisis. the catering industry has always been seen as a safety net in times of job shortages: getting a job in this field was easy. the fact that the catering sector is now also affected by the financial and economic crisis, with consequent redundancies, has a more serious negative effect on the regional economy than the figures alone seem to show. the objective of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) is to facilitate the rapid reintegration of these redundant workers into working life by means of personalised support measures, such as assistance in finding a job, vocational guidance, training and retraining, promotion of self-employment and entrepreneurship.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the request, on the eighth in the 2014 budget, for the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for a total amount of eur 960 000 for spain. the application was made by the spanish authorities following redundancies and cessations of activity in 661 enterprises operating in the catering sector in the region of aragon and concerns 904 redundant workers. in submitting the application, the spanish authorities argued that the economic and financial crisis had led to a decrease in household consumption in spain, with a consequent reduction in the demand for food and drink, given the close relationship between the level of household spending and the consumption of food and drink outside the home.
in writing. - unfortunately, in this time of credit crunch due to the economic and financial crisis, many businesses in europe are collapsing. the economy is slowing down, taxes are increasing, especially vat, wages are falling and there are more people being laid off. in europe unemployment has reached a rate of 10.3% with spain having one of the highest rates, 25.1% not to mention youth unemployment which is around 54%. it is true that european solidarity is important in these difficult situations, but it is not enough. the appropriateness of national and european economic policies in a context of constant change in the global market also needs to be considered.
in writing. - i fully support and am in favour of the mobilisation of the egf to provide a financial contribution of eur 960 000 in respect of the application submitted by spain for redundancies in hundreds of enterprises operating in the catering sector, which are particularly affected by the economic crisis.
in writing. - the measure covers 280 construction and woodworking workers and amounts to € 960,000. my vote will be in favour of helping these workers, families and businesses in dire need.
in writing. - i shall vote in favour of the report by mrs anneli jäätteenmäki. it provides for the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant in 661 enterprises operating in nace rev. 2 division 56 (catering services) in aragon, spain. with today's vote we are seeking to ensure a system of reintegration into the labour market for employees who have been affected by the economic crisis, highlighting once again the role that europe has and must continue to play in this period of crisis: the commission has already proposed a number of measures to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states.
in writing. - i supported this and the other reports which we voted today for the mobilisation of the egf, the european globalisation adjustment fund. it is a tool which can be used to help workers in these firms affected by the crisis, although the causes of this situation should be analysed in depth. today we have approved requests for support from greece, spain, romania and the netherlands, which shows that the difficulties are not confined to one country, but that the whole of europe is suffering terribly. steel, building, food and catering: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the aid is not used to finance the production of the products concerned. i would not like to have to ask for the approval of these support instruments all the time, but i would rather that the european union and the member states try to prevent or at least limit this. it is undeniable that there is no effective industrial policy strategy, and the actions decided in brussels often have negative consequences, such as free trade agreements, in which our productive realities are usually to blame. we need an immediate change of course and strategy, not least because ttip could make things even worse.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr tang's report, because it identifies in a relevant and timely manner the actions on which it is appropriate to invest urgently to re-skill workers who are now unemployed as a result of the crisis in the construction sector in the netherlands. i therefore support the mobilisation of the egf and the allocation of eur 1 625 781 to help workers in difficulty.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the support from the egf for 475 workers in the construction sector.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report today to provide additional support for construction workers in the gelderland and overijssel regions of the netherlands who have lost their jobs as a result of the world economic and financial crisis. the possibilities for dutch banks to attract savings capital from the dutch market are limited: as a result, they cannot finance dutch mortgages with dutch capital alone. some 98% of dutch construction companies are small and medium-sized enterprises and suffer from a lack of access to credit resulting in numerous bankruptcies that generate redundancies. employment in the construction sector has been the hardest hit by the crisis and is expected to recover very slowly. the objective of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) is to facilitate the rapid reintegration of these redundant workers into working life by means of personalised support measures, such as assistance in finding a job, vocational guidance, training and retraining, promotion of self-employment and entrepreneurship.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the seventh application under the 2014 budget for the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for a total amount of eur 1 625 781 for the netherlands. the dutch authorities requested this financial contribution following redundancies in 89 companies in the construction sector. they claimed that there are a number of reasons behind the negative production and employment trends in the construction sector, and in particular in the construction sector (public and residential buildings), all linked to the financial and economic crisis, including the more restrictive measures taken by banks in the mortgage and credit sector, the government austerity measures and the sharp fall in prices and values in the real estate market.
in writing. - the house in strasbourg today has sent concrete aid to the authorities in the netherlands, and in particular to the regions of gelderland and overijssel and to all those undertakings active in the construction sector. since january, other categories of workers, such as the selfemployed and those on fixed-term contracts, temporary workers and young people who are not in any form of training or employment, the so-called neets, have also been able to benefit from the globalisation adjustment fund. in addition, this instrument is enhanced by services and actions aimed at offering workers reintegration. in this case, among the actions funded by the egf, specific training has been established in the field of asbestos demolition for the benefit of health and safety for those who habitually work in contact with this type of material. i can therefore only vote in favour of the allocation of this instrument, which allows, through appropriate training, to acquire further training knowledge and to find a new job.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the egf requested by the netherlands to provide financial assistance following the redundancies in 89 companies operating in the building sector, also in view of the policy of the banks to adopt more restrictive measures in the field of mortgages and credit, which has considerably reduced access to credit and loans, making it difficult to buy and sell property.
in writing. - the measure covers 470 construction workers and amounts to € 1 625 781. my vote will be in favour of helping these workers, families and businesses in dire need.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr paul tang's report because i consider the decision to mobilise the egf for the netherlands to be an unquestionable opportunity for the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant in 89 enterprises operating in nace rev. 2 division 41 (building). in the context of the economic crisis we are experiencing, we have repeatedly stressed the importance and effectiveness of an instrument such as the egf. by using the most appropriate criteria for destination, europe is once again demonstrating its solidarity mission and its concreteness in helping those who suffer most from the effects of a devastating economic crisis.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for 587 redundant workers in the construction sector in spain.
in writing. i voted in favor of supporting 587 construction workers.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report today to provide additional support for the 587 workers in the wood sector who have lost their jobs in spain as a result of the world economic and financial crisis. the objective of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) is to facilitate the rapid reintegration of these redundant workers into working life by means of personalised support measures, such as assistance in finding a job, vocational guidance, training and retraining, promotion of self-employment and entrepreneurship.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the request, the ninth in the framework of the 2014 budget, for the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for a total amount of eur 700 000 for spain. the request was made by spain following redundancies in three woodworking enterprises in the region of castilla y leon. this excess may be linked to significant changes in the structure of world trade in woodwork and carpentry for construction.
in writing. - i strongly support the mobilisation of the globalisation adjustment fund in favour of certain spanish companies in the wood and cork industries and i welcome the commission's proposal to allocate eur 700 000 to help them. it is not at all pleasant to note that 587 workers have lost their jobs as a result of the sharp drop in the volume of exports of woodwork and carpentry for construction in europe. of course, at the moment we need to provide timely assistance to workers and also to businesses, but in the coming period we will also have to think about how to revive the timber market and the employment rate in spain, as well as in europe.
in writing. - i can only vote in favour of the egf following the redundancy of 587 workers in the wood and cork industries in the nuts ii region of castilla y león in spain. in this same area, the unemployment rate increased from 8,2% in the first quarter of 2008 to 22,70% in the first quarter of 2013 and the employment situation in the region concerned is particularly fragile due to the extremely low population density, as in the province of soria, and the high dependence on the wood sector, which due to such a population density leads to redundancies that also have a serious impact on the local economy.
in writing. - the measure covers 587 construction workers and amounts to € 700 000. my vote will be in favour of helping these workers, families and businesses in dire need.
in writing. - today we voted on five more requests to mobilise the globalisation adjustment fund. the one by mr esteban gonzález pons concerned the reintegration into the labour market of redundant workers in three enterprises operating in nace rev. 2 division 16 (wood and wood and cork products, except furniture; manufacture of straw and plaiting materials) in the region of castilla y león. these are concrete signals that the european parliament is sending to workers and businesses in difficulty because of the economic crisis.
the court is in session. the minutes of yesterday's sitting and the texts adopted have been distributed. are there any comments?
we will take your comments into account. we thank you.
ladies and gentlemen, there was no outside intervention. i have listened to your speeches, and i ask you to listen to what i am saying. no one forced members to vote one way or another. the result showed that there were mps who were in favour of the majority and mps who were against the minority. this is democracy. no one could influence it. i think that meps are free and have no problem listening to other people. it is not another parliament that can influence the freedom of all the members of the european parliament.
mr president, i think that there has been no breach of parliament's rules of procedure. what has happened is a decision which will strengthen the ties between the two parliaments and i think that the vote by the ukrainian parliament has not imposed anything on the members of the european parliament.
i think this was a free vote yesterday and i think it is impossible to change our decision today. i understand that you take a different position but it is impossible to change the european parliament decision. alors, on peut voter le procès-verbal. quelle est votre proposition, monsieur, s'il vous plaît?
yes, i understand that. but i was just asking if you'd change a few words in the minutes.
i understand that. so who's against mr. gollnisch's proposal? well, then i'll give you my vote. who is in favour of approving the minutes?
the result of the vote is out of the question, and that is very clear. it was only the wording of the text that was in question, not the substance of the text. there were some formal aspects that could have been added, but the result of the vote is not in question, the result of the vote cannot be changed, so what was approved yesterday remains approved. this is very clear, it is only a matter of substance, which may be added to the minutes, but it has nothing to do with the outcome of the vote and the legitimacy of the vote. the link with the parliament in kiev was entirely legitimate, it did not affect the freedom of parliament, and i do not think any member of the european parliament can be influenced by anyone else except his own conscience. this is clear and undeniable, so it does not change what has been said at all. then we'll have to do some more legal checks. i shall put this off until later and then we shall proceed with the debate because we must also respect the other institutions, so we shall also be giving clarifications at a technical level. i said we would report this point, because we are going to carry out checks. we are pursuing. the results of yesterday's vote are clear. we must move forward. let's move on to the next point.
the agenda includes the discussion of the statements by the council and the commission on the eu response to the ebola virus epidemic (2014/2842 ((rsp)).
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the ebola virus epidemic in north africa is having a very serious impact on health and a very high cost in terms of human lives. more than 2,500 people have died and some 5,000 have been infected, but the african countries most affected by the virus have not yet received adequate attention and concrete interventions. the easily influenced western world has been enormously alarmed and rightly mobilized whenever a western contagion has occurred, but the same emotions, the same pathos, the same apprehension have not been expressed in the face of the hundreds of victims in africa, which generally comes back to interest when it comes to exploiting its resources. i've heard a lot about blending. what better opportunity than an emergency such as the one caused by the ebola virus to actually start holding accountable those multinational corporations that are making huge profits from the resources of the most affected countries? ebola is not just a health and humanitarian emergency, it is not just death and fear of contagion, it is also a social and political problem and it has a disastrous economic effect. the fao has recently announced the enormous risk to crops in west africa. the secondary effects of this crisis are becoming more and more evident. food insecurity is worsening the already fragile economies of these countries, which are now facing the imminent collapse of exports. the challenges for europe are immense. local institutions are very weak, public health systems ineffective, inconsistent, even in some cases non-existent. there is no basic infrastructure, no roads, no infrastructure to deal with the emergency. there is a distorted view of the disease among local communities because of the very low literacy rate that facilitates the spread of the virus. there are endless ethnic, political, religious divisions that spill blood on the territories and make only the merchants of death smile. my question, ladies and gentlemen, is this: europe is ready to take up this enormous challenge, and if so, how?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about thousands of deaths and europe is waking up again at the last moment, with a half-empty house. we are talking about a virus that has an incubation period of two to 21 days and we are talking about a moment when, with a dementia operation called mare nostrum, thousands of people are arriving in italy every day, even from countries where the virus is killing - i think nigeria, i think senegal and i think liberia. so, apart from the fact that obviously the more money is spent, the sooner we intervene in those countries, the better it is for everyone, especially for those who have no place in the italian and european news. but i ask myself and i ask you: if some countries in the world like south korea or saudi arabia are even thinking about closing their borders to immigrants from high-risk areas, what are we doing other than going to save those lives there, which is right and why are we already late, to avoid problems here? and i wonder, and i ask you, whether europe can still turn a blind eye to the arrival of thousands of people who, beyond the ebola virus, can, indeed are carriers - these are the figures from italian hospitals - of tuberculosis and scabies, which, however, do not stop in italy, i say to my european colleagues who do not care. the problem is not only italian, it is european, so i ask you if it makes sense to continue to go and collect these people in the middle of the sea without any kind of control, guarantee or even if the money we are throwing away for mare nostrum would not be better spent in africa, in north africa to avoid these people from death journeys and to avoid us and our children from possible and possible contagion.
it's a blue-card question. i'm not sure what it is. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, my colleague said that these funds should go to researchers. i would like to ask you whether you have considered whether there is or has been a system to control how this money is used by researchers, because in italy, for example, there is a lot of corruption on this point too and researchers are often subjugated by university barons and there is an incredible system of nepotism, so if the money is going to end up in italy in research, it must be controlled well and demand efficiency and results.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, under-secretary, allow me to begin by thinking of the thousands of victims of this epidemic and of course a sincere thank you, which i think should be from all of this house, to all the people who, as doctors, nurses and volunteers, are cooperating in trying to control this very bad epidemic, in the interests of all european countries as well. i have a problem with the resources we allocate. we know that in order to respond quickly and effectively, we need resources which can then be used to mobilize people and equipment to help the affected populations. unfortunately, the resources in europe's budget are now few, and they are few because we do not have enough flexibility in the multiannual financial framework. well, that should push us in the budget negotiations we are having to focus on those necessary resources, even at the expense of some other programme which may not be as priority as this intervention. on the other hand, let me say that on behalf of this parliament, as chairman of the committee on health, i will be making a point at the informal council meeting in milan on monday 22 that there is a need for an extraordinary effort by all 28 countries to ensure that there is a coordinated, strong, immediate response, because an epidemic like this, even if it does not affect us directly today, certainly needs to be dealt with without delay in order to prevent problems that we might also have on our continent.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, no country should be left to deal with an emergency like ebola. today, infectious diseases like ebola can be defeated, and that can only be done through systematic, internationally coordinated action. containment is not an option, and i believe we must eradicate the disease now. this tragic event brings us face to face with the structural fragility of health systems in many african countries and i believe it also highlights the underdeveloped conditions in many parts of africa. only by revitalising the union's cooperation and development policies will it be possible to avoid such tragedies in the future, for example by making the fight against poverty a priority. new partnerships are needed to support the creation of excellent hospital facilities, the training of health workers on the ground and in the field of education. it is unthinkable that a country like liberia should be forced to quarantine an entire area of its capital because of its lack of adequate health services. this epidemic is a challenge to our responsibilities. sustaining the well-being of humanity in this globalised world is in the interest of all of us.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the five star movement i would like to express my solidarity with all the families of the people who have given their lives and are giving their lives to the people who are dying and suffering in these places, and i would ask that, since parliament has allocated 150 million euros of public money, it would be right to publish to whom this money has been paid, what use has been made of it so far and what use will be made of it if more is allocated. i would also ask you to check if they are allocated in italy, as this could be yet another cause of theft and fraud perpetuated in italy by our current political caste.
the motions for resolutions to be tabled pursuant to rule 123 (2) of the rules of procedure will be announced at a later date. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 18 september 2014.
i have had the services check the application of the regulation, including the amendments. article 192 (3) of the rules of procedure provides: 'if the minutes are contested, parliament shall, if necessary, decide whether to take account of the amendments requested. no member may speak for more than one minute on the subject.' i asked mr gollnisch what amendment he was proposing. i respect you, i'm showing you respect. i postponed the final decision because i wanted to guarantee your job and the role of the mp. i checked and i was right. i ask you if there is an amendment on your part. we cannot propose political amendments, because this is not a political debate. if there are errors in the text, you can propose amendments. otherwise i am obliged to reject the amendments, because the text is very clear: 'if necessary'. if there are any mistakes, tell me what amendment you wish to propose. if he's eligible, i'll put him on the ballot. if not, the minutes shall be approved. i'm with you.
mr gollnisch, i respect your ideas, as i always do, i respect all members. unfortunately, your amendment is a political amendment, it is a comment on what has happened. there was no debate on this subject. so we cannot comment further on this point. i cannot accept this amendment. the minutes are approved. we are continuing with the agenda.
the agenda includes the discussion of the statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in iraq and syria and the isis offensive including the persecution of minorities (2014/2843 ((rsp)).
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the proclamations following the triumphant meeting of the jihadist unit sound like a death knell for the west and for europe, all the more so since europe is saying nothing about the danger of the return to europe and the west of the warriors of allah after having exercised the noble profession of slaughtering christians. moreover, the entire coalition intervention seems to lack even a comprehensible geopolitical strategy and, moreover, does not involve all the powers concerned. the creation of this huge enclave, manned by twenty to thirty thousand highly motivated warriors of allah, is completely upsetting the geopolitical picture of the region. isis now also has considerable support from local sunni forces. drone bombing is not enough, because there is no political action on the ground to hook up and converge local allies. in the meantime, the tragedy of the ecatomb, the death and martyrdom of our eastern christians continues, whose organizations are now being asked by french members of the front national and italian members of the lega nord to be awarded the sakharov prize. they are martyrs of the west, of europe and of your values, which you do not remember and do not defend. europe is also reflecting on the words of the bishop of aleppo who reminds us that there is a secret international plan behind this advance of these united forces. the west, europe, wake up. europe, wake up! what are you doing?
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, humanity often believes that by repeating mistakes, it can make up for them. my friends, isis is a threat that is very different from what we've seen before. not only is it an international of islamic extremism, it even proposes the pseudo-rebirth of the caliphate, a perverse model of brutality and fanaticism, dramatically attractive to many frustrated young people. this blood nightmare is born from the superficiality of those who thought in the persian gulf and elsewhere that it was useful to bring down syria. but assad, with cold political calculation, allowed it to operate undisturbed in the east for a long time and focused on other countries, with other rebels, in the hope of one day putting us in front of the choice: who do you want, us or the terrorists? the road to fragile iraq, at risk of balkanization, was clear. is it a coincidence that these fanatics, riding on the resentment of the sunnis, declare that they want to cancel the sykes-picot agreements and the unfortunate partition of that treaty of sèvres that ignored tribal cultures, ethnic identities and theological divisions of islam? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. he is wrong because the iraqi army, corrupt and now known for leaks and abandonment of weapons and vehicles, will not be enough, and isis of course thanks. the iraqi kurds will not be enough if we do not have the courage to recognize that the question of kurdistan, of all kurdistan, demands that we finally have a solution. only the united nations, within its limits, has the authority and impartiality to intervene by creating humanitarian corridors and preventing further massacres, but we must accept that new, stable borders in the middle east are being renegotiated, allowing its peoples to freely determine their own destiny, otherwise the same tragic mistake will be repeated endlessly by those who first armed the afghan mujahedeen against the soviet union and then had to deal with the emergence of al-qaeda. the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe in the fight against terrorism.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, a little over a hundred years ago the distinguished member of parliament, gaetano salvemini, rightly and strongly condemned the italian colonization of libya, which he described as a 'sandbox'. times are changing, and today libya is more like a pandora's box, with blood, oil and tears of despair flowing from it. the sharp strategy of operation odyssey dawn, strongly desired by former president sarkozy, envisaged that democracy could be cultivated in the country simply by dropping bombs in abundance against gaddafi, until recently a welcome guest in tents in paris, rome and other european capitals. today, however, we have a fierce civil war and it is difficult to even keep track of the factions, all of which are ready to lay their hands on africa's largest hydrocarbon reserves. was it so hard to imagine, in a country of one hundred and forty tribes and coming out of only forty-two years of dictatorship? but the bill, ladies and gentlemen, is being paid by the citizens of the mediterranean countries, together with the 140 000 desperate migrants. two thousand five hundred people have already died this year. do we want to talk about the vague promises of frontex+ later? it sounds more like the name of a throat-ache pill, insufficient to cure an increasingly chronic humanitarian tragedy, while the italian sailors of mare nostrum risk their lives to save thousands of lives every day. i express my esteem and solidarity to them. of course, the italian governments are to blame, but what is the eu doing? does he want the un to intervene? does it take joint responsibility for combating trafficking in human beings, for rescuing people at sea, for negotiating meaningful agreements with the countries of origin? no, not seriously. instead, it seems to be just waiting by the window to figure out which faction will be the dominant one, and then rushing to the rescue of course of the winners. but this crisis and its consequences are the responsibility of all the member states, no one is excluded. europe must be truly united not only in its diversity but above all in its adversity. let's prove it with facts.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to say that libya is a symbolic case for europe and the west of what should not be done. in essence, after the military intervention, the situation was left to resolve itself, without an idea, a plan for the future of libya. anyone who knows the libyan situation knows that this was the inevitable outcome, and to admit mistakes today would not be a sign of weakness but of foresight. we must now run for cover and try to deal with the situation, which as we know involves us on three fronts. first of all, the identification of a path that can lead to democratic stabilisation, a functioning parliament and government, which is recognized. secondly, on the side of terrorism, because the confusion that has arisen in the country is providing a huge space for jihadist and terrorist forces. i do not think we are in a situation like somalia, but the problems we have are likely to get worse and worse if we do not act. the third theme is the question of immigration. libya has always been a country of collection and transit, but today the conditions are objectively worse. the deaths of so many people in the mediterranean sea are also the result of the extremely complicated situation in libya. woe to underestimate this problem for us. i think that europe must understand, must be fully aware that today more than ever we need a new initiative on these three fronts as quickly as possible. we shall see what comes out of the madrid meeting, but there is no doubt that what is needed now are facts and not words.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in the motion we are discussing, which i support, i would just like to stress that libya is at the moment a powder keg in the middle of the mediterranean and is again raising the issue of wars that dictators are waging around the world and then leaving behind rubble. fighting armed factions are creating one of the world's worst humanitarian emergencies. italy, for geographical and historical reasons, naturally has a special relationship with libya and is the first european frontier on which all tensions are unleashed. given the situation, i think that the international community must do its utmost to bring about a political and democratic solution in the country and that all of europe, i stress all of europe, should feel responsible for the consequences of the conflict, starting with the fate of the refugees, who are desperate and left to fend for themselves.
acting president of the council (on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the european union for foreign affairs and security policy). mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the members who have spoken. the european union's message is loud and clear: no military solution can bring lasting peace to libya. the present crisis can and must be dealt with by peaceful negotiations which pave the way for the political process. the european union mission eubam libya, which is intended to assist the libyan authorities in managing the borders, remains ready to resume full operations as soon as security conditions permit and to adapt, if necessary, the current mission to the new reality that will emerge in libya. we are confident that the mediation efforts led by the un support mission in libya, with the support of the eu and the member states through the special envoys, will begin to bear fruit. reports from recent visits indicate the possibility of a change in dynamics and a growing willingness on both sides to reach agreement on the basic principles that will guide the political process in the future. the international community must devote all its energy to supporting these efforts and complementing them, for example by implementing the relevant un security council resolutions and refraining from actions that risk exacerbating tensions. we hope that the ministerial meeting in madrid today and the one scheduled for new york will be a success. these high-level events at close quarters, along with others, like today's debate, show that the world is now paying close attention to what is happening in libya. the international community is strongly committed to supporting the silent majority of libyans in their struggle for a peaceful and prosperous existence.
the motions for resolutions to be tabled pursuant to rule 123 (2) of the rules of procedure will be announced at a later date. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 18 september 2014.
the agenda includes the discussion of the statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on israel-palestine after the gaza conflict and the role of the eu (2014/2845 ((rsp)).
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, after a war, the victims are counted, they are mourned, but they are not weighed. israeli people: five hundred and thirty wounded, sixty-nine dead, one child. palestinians: more than eleven thousand were wounded, two thousand four hundred were killed, four hundred and ninety-five were children. each conflict in the last decade has been bloodier and more devastating than the last. how long can our consciences tolerate this carnage? are we going to be powerless to the point of no return? no, we can't and we shouldn't. if israel wants to legitimately guarantee its security, we as europeans must help it to understand that the only way to defeat terrorism and extremism in the gaza strip is to guarantee the palestinian people human rights and social justice. gentlemen, we must lift the embargo once and for all, push for the creation of a port and the reopening of the airport. let us, as the union, help to monitor them by extending the action of eubam to prevent any illicit trafficking in arms. we have an opportunity with the egyptian truce, an opportunity for lasting peace. it may be the last. it will be the last if we as the european union do our duty in these negotiations for two states, for two peoples. (the speaker agrees to answer a question for a blue card, rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
answer to a blue-card question. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your question, mr belder. i think i have already answered you during my speech when i said that in my personal opinion the cause of terrorism and extremism in gaza is that there is no social justice. it is a people reduced to misery, to poverty, to an embargo. we will solve this problem and it will be the palestinian people themselves who will put aside their extremism and push for a solution, because as a colleague said earlier, they have been washing themselves in the blood of their children for years, and it is time to put an end to this.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the conflict between israel and palestine is probably the symbol of the stupidity, the senselessness, the weakness of the human being, and the impotence of international institutions and bodies of all kinds and origins. ever since i was a kid, ever since i can remember, the message that was constantly coming from that part of the world to me was one-way: the bombing, the destruction, the civilian deaths, the madness, the war. an endless war, a war that like any bloody war knows and will never know neither winners nor losers, but only and exclusively victims and losers. what does it change for palestinian or israeli civilians who are orphaned, maimed, homeless, with their lives in shambles and the desert around them, when they learn that the bombs came from the right or the left, from the west or the east? there are too many speeches in the institutions, beautiful speeches, tearful speeches, and still more resolutions by the european union and the united nations, but at the same time too many weapons are being sold to those who use them in an unconscious, improper and insane way. there are thousands of civilian prisoners, many of them held in israeli jails without due process. among them are palestinian ministers and parliamentarians who must be released. i would like to conclude by saying that the union represents the states which have made history in the world. it has the diplomatic power to end the conflict and must necessarily do more to ensure that the most basic international conventions and the principle of self-determination of peoples are respected.
acting president of the council (on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the european union for foreign affairs and security policy). - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you to the members who have spoken. the european union supports peace and democracy in the entire middle east region and is making a strong contribution to ending the israeli-palestinian conflict, which, as long as it remains unresolved, will continue to undermine peace and security throughout the middle east and along the union's southern borders. the recent outbreak of violence in israel and the gaza strip is a stark reminder of the urgency of doing so. events show that there will be no final cessation of violence, no lasting peace, until the aspirations of the palestinians to have their own sovereign state and the aspirations of the israelis to security are met, through a comprehensive peace, negotiated and based on the coexistence of two states. the european union will continue to call on prime minister netanyahu and president abbas, together with its partners in the international community and the region, to engage in genuine negotiations in good faith and to work together to achieve a lasting solution to the conflict. the eu has an important role to play in this context and intends to continue to do so in the critical weeks and months ahead.
the motions for resolutions to be tabled pursuant to rule 123 (2) of the rules of procedure will be announced at a later date. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 18 september 2014.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we consider the annual report to be important because it is the instrument for informing the institutions and the citizens about the policies implemented by the european union. it is also a way for us to assess the state of implementation of the strategic framework of the european union's action plan on human rights and democracy. there is one aspect, however, which i think needs to be resolved, and quickly. the report lacks precise indicators of progress or regression compared to the previous year, and without such indicators it is difficult to assess the effectiveness of european policies. the european union has developed human rights strategies for almost all countries. the observations, concerns and objectives contained in these strategies should be reflected in the report. this is one of the particularly important aspects, because these country strategies are still classified as internal documents and not public. as regards the strategic framework, we consider the adoption of the strategic framework of the action plan launched in 2012 to be a key milestone. the fact that this strategy has been accompanied by the mandate of the european union special representative for human rights makes it all the more important. but this strategy is essentially coming to an end this year. we need to relaunch it very strongly, and the start of a new action plan scheduled for january 2015 must be a reason to have adequate consultation of both parliament and civil society. finally, the european union's special representative has done a very good job, and that is why we would like the european council to renew his mandate, in particular by giving the special representative greater powers to achieve the objectives of the european strategy and action plans and to ensure that article 21 of the treaty is implemented through concrete policies.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank mrs lucia pulici, 75, from desio, mrs olga raschietti, 83, from montecchio maggiore, vicenza, and mrs bernadetta boggian, 79, from ospedaletto euganeo, padua. these are three italian nuns who were killed on 7 september in their convent in burundi, and who defended human rights on the battlefield and to the end. my thoughts are with them, their families, their communities, the many missionaries who have fought and are fighting every day for human rights. does europe know that christian countries peacefully tolerate the activities of other religious confessions on their territory, whereas the same principle does not apply to muslim countries at all? every year about one hundred and fifteen thousand christians are killed by fundamentalists, that is, one every five minutes. that means that three christians died during the commissioner's intervention. i asked the high representative ashton for a european day against the persecution and oppression of christians and he said no. it's a shame, i don't like this europe.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i agree that the work done is important work for which we all have to be grateful, but i would like to remind you of what happened this weekend in the sicilian channel, that stretch of sea between libya, malta and italy: about 700 people died. more people have died in that stretch of sea since the beginning of the year than in gaza. that stretch of sea is a war zone in peacetime. that stretch of sea is at the doorstep of europe. a war that is not far from us, that is at the doorstep of europe, that concerns us, that concerns thousands of people who look to europe as a promised land, who look to europe as a place to finally arrive, to spend their lives and their talents fleeing from wars, from extermination, from racial persecution sometimes, from persecution and from the total absence of civil rights. i think europe should look more closely. it is time to put caution to one side and review the dublin regulations and look at what is happening that concerns us so closely. (the president agreed to reply to a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
it's a blue-card question. i'm not sure what it is. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to address my colleague on human rights and the need to put an end to this slaughter on our seas: how can you reconcile that with the fact that in italy you financed the purchase of 35 fighter-bombers at a cost of several billion each?
answer to a blue-card question. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it is very simple: i never financed any purchase of fighter-bombers, i never even fired a shot with a gun or with a rifle, i'm here doing my job, your question must be presented to others.
author of the book. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the republic of azerbaijan currently holds the rotating presidency of the council of europe, the leading organization for the defence of human rights and the promotion of democracy. the republic of azerbaijan is at the same time a country where rights are systematically violated, from freedom of expression - especially on the internet - to freedom of association and assembly, an absurd contradiction i would say. azerbaijan is aiming to become one of the main suppliers of gas to europe, so from a commercial or energy-strategic point of view we seem to be very interested in it, whereas our interest in its democratic character and the safeguarding of human rights has been less strong so far. press reports and some reports from leading ngos inform us that there are dozens of prisoners of conscience behind bars for expressing their opinions as journalists, bloggers or activists, on the basis of trumped-up charges and above all without a fair trial. in addition, eight prisoners between the ages of 18 and 30 are reportedly on hunger strike to raise international public awareness. we call on europe to put pressure on the azerbaijani government to respect the international agreements it has signed, including the one which allows it to preside over the council of europe. europe is the main funder of civil organizations in azerbaijan. we therefore ask that the commission monitor the use of these funds. it has to be spent in a transparent and effective way, otherwise it would be like turning our backs on those kids in prison who are just asking for a little dignity.
author of the book. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, nelson mandela is a symbol of redemption for the whole of the african continent and beyond. pierre claver mbonimpa, like mandela, is a symbol of freedom, of struggle, of justice for a continent which is unfortunately still in the grip of corrupt leaders and local potentates who exploit the territory for their own personal enrichment. in burundi, for mbonimpa, history is repeating itself. exactly 20 years after his arrest and torture in prison, the journalist and human rights defender returned to his cell on 15 may. his fault? persevere in defending freedom of expression, a freedom that should be sacred. mbonimpa is a brave man. he defied the power and paid the price, and yet he decided to defy it again. his arrest is a political matter: there will be elections in burundi in 2015 and the current government seems intent on maintaining power by any means repressive and violent. his health condition has now deteriorated and he has been transferred under surveillance to the hospital. we call on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the situation in the former yugoslavia is resolved. the european parliament must condemn this new and unjustified detention of mbonimpa and use all diplomatic means to convince the local authorities to stop the use of violence against all civilians peacefully demonstrating in burundi for his release. fifty-two people are currently being held without due process in the country's prisons. we are helping the healthy civil society in burundi to change the course of history in that country.
the tragic situation in burundi requires europe to take a strong stand in its role as a global actor in defence of the rule of law and fundamental freedoms. the deprivation of liberty of a human rights defender, pierre mbonimpa, is an attack on the democracy of this country, which unfortunately still shows all the fragility that led it to a decade of civil war and to a tragic death toll of 300 000 people. we do not want to stand by and watch another genocide in central africa. the level of alert is high, especially in view of the upcoming elections, which must take place in a democratic and inclusive atmosphere, with the participation of the opposition. without full respect for the will of the people and their rights, the country risks being relegated to its own conditions of underdevelopment, with dramatic repercussions on the lives of hundreds of thousands of people. it needs a strong signal of hope, strength and courage for those who defend freedom and democracy. pierre mbonimpa must be released immediately.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the situation in burundi is very serious. the violation of human rights is also taking place in the field of freedom of speech, thought and opinion. it is the most heinous attack a person can suffer, as in the case of mbonimpa. the tragedy of today, we must never forget, is the result of a terrible history, the result of permanent political instability, of constant institutional precariousness, of abject poverty. europe must make a serious effort to help refugees, to respect peace, to guarantee people and their freedom. every country, even the smallest, even the least powerful, has the right to live in freedom and to be helped to achieve it permanently.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to ask the following question: i heard about the burundi issue, but is it possible i saw in the italian newspaper today that jews in europe should be afraid of being jews? i mean this argument: we in europe today still have jews, jewish brothers who are afraid to go to the synagogue, 75 percent of the children do not go to jewish schools because they are afraid. - what about? the cancer that is there, this cancer of islam, this islam that is scary, and we are talking about burundi. burundi may be important, but is it not more important to defend the jews in europe and to defend the freedom of christendom in europe? that's my question. or do we want to wait, like hitler did in the 1930s, where everyone was asleep, and now we'll have the new hitler from the desert sands? we must defend europe and the european people and the jews first and foremost.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the latest amnesty international report on the situation in bangladesh shows a very worrying picture which should prompt us to act quickly to protect human rights. there is a worrying escalation of political violence to silence opposition protests and strikes against a government that is characterized by a very high level of corruption. the human rights situation is seriously undermined and bangladeshi citizens are not afforded the minimum protections that most of the world provides. in the asian country, some 30 extrajudicial executions have been reported, for which there is no culprit and no suspect. in bangladesh, medieval practices of torture and other ill-treatment are so widespread that they appear normal and are carried out with near total impunity by the police, military and intelligence agencies. to make matters worse, there are numerous cases of enforced disappearances, systematic violence of all kinds against women, conflicts between bengali settlers and the indigenous population, intimidation and attacks against trade union leaders and numerous cases of aggression and destruction against ethnic and religious minorities. we cannot stand by and watch this happen. europe can and must take action to ensure that dignity, freedom, equality, solidarity and justice are not just words in the nice charter, but become universally recognized and affirmed rights.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, a point of order: i would like to know whether the presidency does not intend to send a democratic greeting to the people of scotland who are voting for their freedom at this hour. "dawn with the sun!" scotland is free!
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i am voting in favour because every effort must be made to facilitate dialogue between ukraine and russia, without losing sight of the fact that sanctions cannot replace a diplomatic and political solution, which we all hope will be found as soon as possible. it is urgent to find an immediate and peaceful way out, while keeping the channels of communication open to review, in the event of positive feedback, the sanctions and their repercussions. i am thinking in particular of what is happening to agriculture in that country, and, despite having heard commissioner cioloş's statements, i insist on the need to establish clear rules so that each member state can actually benefit from aid in relation to its own production characteristics. it is obvious that the funds are insufficient and that more money is needed. in this connection, and again to take the italian example, i would just like to remind you that our losses amount to 200 million euros.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, to explain why we were unfortunately unable to vote in favour but abstained on this important resolution, because while we obviously share the enormous concern and closeness to the ukrainian people for the dramatic moments they are experiencing and while we strongly share the whole point of paying attention and supporting and solving those sectors of european and italian industry which are heavily affected, there are other equally important points which we do not feel we share, first of all the point concerning the energy sector, where there is even talk of cancelling the agreements already in place with russia, including the south stream project. we have therefore reluctantly refrained from doing so, but we hope that the diplomatic way will gain more and more strength, because the solution can and must be the political one.
in writing. - i did not support the report on which we voted because i think the eu's sanctions policy against russia is wrong. the only result of the decisions taken so far has been enormous economic damage to the european internal market, particularly the veneto and italian markets, so i think the eu must review its positions as soon as possible.
in writing. - i call on all parties to make every effort to implement it fully and in good faith, with a view to laying the foundations for the launch of a genuine peace process, including permanent and effective control of the ukrainian border verified by the organisation for security and cooperation in europe (osce), the complete and unconditional withdrawal of russian troops, illegal armed groups, military equipment and mercenaries from the internationally recognised territory of ukraine, and the release of the hostages. i also call on the member states, the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy and the commission to make every effort to strengthen and enhance the osce special monitoring mission in ukraine, both in terms of expert staff and logistics and equipment. as regards the russian embargo on european agri-food products, i ask the commission to increase the budget allocated to community measures to alleviate the impact on european farmers and i ask that its coverage be extended to more products. in addition, it is essential that, through promotional activities, there is a strengthening of sales of eu agricultural products on third country markets to avoid an oversupply on the european market.
in writing. - the sanctions against russia are a political gesture and a regrettable decision for both european and russian citizens. as often happens on the eve of conflict, the less well-off suffer first, and among european countries it is those in the south, including italy, who pay the price. the value of italian exports to russia is 500 million euros a year for the agri-food sector alone, in fact, due to the sanctions, several small and medium-sized agricultural enterprises have found themselves with water in their throats and have had to invent new ways to sell their products, sometimes using serbian or montenegrin companies to circumvent the sanctions and transit goods to russia through companies that are not on putin's "black list". in view of this, we stand with the small businessman and ask europe: haven't the italians suffered enough? how long will the european institutions continue to demand heavy sacrifices from our enterprises without giving them adequate economic aid in view of the continuing structural crisis?
in writing. - it wasn't easy to make a decision on this resolution. my group is made up mainly of people who, until the end of the 1980s, fought against the oppression of the soviet union. i, while sharing the basic values of these colleagues, do not have the same direct experience and can distinguish between what has been done in the name of socialism and what has been done in the name of russia. and, not being blinded by fear, i see that the european position is doing damage in europe, with an effectiveness about which i have serious doubts. i would like to start a serious, calm, objective debate, which i have refrained from doing in the meantime so as not to be misunderstood.
in writing. - i preferred to abstain on the resolution on the state of eu-russia relations. the main reason for this choice is that we do not share the path of sanctions, which unfairly harms the european industrial sector and which in any case does not make a constructive contribution to peace and good relations between the eu and russia. the eu should strengthen diplomatic dialogue rather than envisage or impose sanctions. the difficult situation with ukraine must be resolved through negotiations: that's the way i want it.
in writing. - i think the resolution is very unbalanced on ukraine. i cannot therefore vote in favour. on the other hand, russia has its faults which make me not vote against it. for the reasons stated above, i believe that the best vote is abstention.
in writing. - the eu's support to ukraine is primarily aimed at safeguarding international law and the principle of territorial sovereignty in particular. although russia is a great economic power, which with its vast territory holds vital energy for the west, and is an important partner in solving the problems in the middle east, it cannot be allowed to violate international law and go unpunished. international law is blocked and undermined internally because of these violations. in the 21st century, the rules cannot be dictated by aggressors, but there is an obligation to defend international law. i am firmly convinced that this is a role for europe, which, thanks to its internal balance of forces, can and must act as a guarantor. this is an internal matter for the european continent, and the institutions must take care of it. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i believe that the support of the european union to ukraine is essential for the promotion of democratic and social development and for the protection of international law.
in writing. - every effort must be made to facilitate dialogue between ukraine and russia, without losing sight of the fact that sanctions cannot replace a diplomatic and political solution, which we all hope will be found as soon as possible. it is urgent to find an immediate and peaceful way out while keeping the channels of communication open and ready to review, in the event of positive feedback, the sanctions and their repercussions. i am thinking in particular of what is happening in the agriculture of my country and, despite having heard the determinations of commissioner ciolos, i insist on the need to establish clear rules so that each member state can actually benefit from aid in relation to its own production peculiarities. it is obvious that the funds are insufficient and that more money is needed. the estimated damage to italy is eur 200 million. sicily, which produces grapes and citrus fruits, had barely time to inform, through the agea, only three producers' requests that funds had been blocked. it is also necessary to provide for appropriations for the crisis in the citrus market. we should think about special and extraordinary funds to be allocated directly to enterprises.
in writing. - since the beginning of the ebola outbreak in africa, i have been campaigning for eu intervention to stem the spread of the virus. the resolution we are voting on, albeit belatedly, calls for more decisive action by europe with development policies aimed at greater prevention, improvement of medical and social infrastructure in africa and coordination of existing interventions to maximise results, and for all these reasons i voted in favour of it.
in writing. - i 'm in . the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the spread of the virus.
in writing. - the ebola virus epidemic, which broke out in west africa, has been underestimated by the international community and is now a challenge to global security. the countries affected are confronted with socioeconomic collapse. i voted in favour of this resolution to call for more resources and operational capacity, including qualified human resources and logistical equipment. i call on the member states to coordinate flights and establish dedicated air bridges and i invite the european commission to develop a needs assessment and specific plans for each affected country in order to determine and coordinate the request and the related deployment of medical personnel, mobile laboratories, protective clothing and treatment centres. in addition, the african union should be encouraged to consider a comprehensive plan of action, as the crisis has become complex and with political implications. as regards medical research, i would stress the importance of advancing clinical trials of proven treatments for the ebola virus.
in writing. - the ebola virus has already killed over 2,000 people in west africa and according to the world health organization, the contagion could spread to 20,000 people in the next 3 months. ngos such as médecins sans frontières have raised alarm about the inadequacy of the international community's response to the spread of the contagion (which has already affected, in addition to guinea, 4 other african states). europe must equip itself to prevent the spread of the virus within its borders and we therefore urge the commission to provide more funding for the affected areas but also to intensify its efforts to protect our southern borders by strengthening rescue operations and medical assistance for migrants. the institutions of the 28 member states must recognise that ebola is a global problem and requires a globally coordinated response. we also want to stress the need for a collective effort, not just an italian one, to provide relief to the tens of thousands of desperate people trying to cross to the schengen countries.
in writing. - this resolution is not just a dutiful signal of attention to what the who has called a 'public health emergency of international concern', which may have been underestimated at first. it urges the relevant institutions to take specific actions to try to address the serious shortcomings identified by the ngos most active on the ground in all aspects of the response: - the possibility of using military and civilian defence resources under the guidance of the un secretary-general; - coordination by the european commission of the dispatch of medical personnel, mobile laboratories, equipment, protective clothing, treatment centres with isolation wards; - the introduction of control systems to prevent misuse of resources; - the establishment by states of air bridges dedicated to the transfer of personnel and equipment to the affected countries. the resolution also stresses the need for action beyond health, given the dramatic implications of the epidemic in all areas of social life (with 4.5 million children under the age of 5 living in the affected areas). the resolution as a whole is therefore particularly welcome and that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. - as has been sadly known since march, the ebola virus has claimed thousands of lives at an ever-increasing rate. although the european commission has recently stepped up immediate support to contain the crisis, humanitarian workers face increasingly difficult conditions on the ground. this is the largest epidemic ever recorded in terms of cases, casualties and geographical extent and, as stated by the who, the crisis is a public health emergency of international concern and therefore requires a coordinated international response. i think it is right that parliament should state in this resolution that the international community must play a more decisive role, and that the african countries must assume their share of responsibility, and that it should therefore call on the commission to intensify its efforts and coordinate its actions with international partners to combat the epidemic. as the text of the resolution states, the international community has underestimated the crisis and has been slow to develop a proper coordination strategy, and i agree with this and other points, and i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution calling for the urgent deployment of funding, medical personnel and equipment to the countries affected by the ebola epidemic. this is an emergency situation that should not be underestimated in any way, especially since even the who has said that the number of people affected could exceed 20,000 cases in the coming months, spreading rapidly in the west african region. even the ngos currently active in the field feel that international efforts are totally inadequate and lacking. therefore, a coordination mechanism with all member states, the united states and all other international partners needs to be activated as soon as possible in order to mobilise a medical response capable of developing clinical, epidemiological and diagnostic infrastructures, including surveillance infrastructures and training of local staff. there is no time to lose, global security is at stake and not just the health of african citizens.
in writing. - in west africa, the number of ebola patients and victims continues to rise. riots are occurring and the isolation centers are unable to cope with emergencies. health-care workers are among the first to be infected and have a frightening number of deaths. ebola treatment centers are reduced to places where you go to die alone, and where you're offered palliative care and little else. it's impossible to cope with the huge number of infected people who are pouring into health facilities. for the reasons stated and to ensure that all international plans to help the affected countries to put an end to the contagion are put into effect, i could not but vote in favour of this resolution.
in writing. - the sensitive subject of ebola has always been treated by our movement with extreme caution. we strongly stress the need for concrete interventions and actions to prevent the spread of the virus. the vote on the resolution on the risks linked to the spread of the ebola virus is positive, although i regret the lack of mention in this resolution of the issue of immigration as a factor which further aggravates the danger of contagion caused by the spread of the virus.
in writing. - first of all, i'd like to begin my statement by dedicating a thought to the victims of this epidemic and by paying tribute to the doctors, volunteers and nurses who are working day after day to help the sick. i am one of the signatories of the resolution adopted today, in which we wanted to stress how closely the european parliament will follow developments in the epidemic and promote surveillance. we must not forget that to deal properly and effectively with the ebola phenomenon, we must continue to act on two distinct levels, the african and the european, by making an extraordinary, coordinated effort, including from an economic point of view, among all 28 member states.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the eu's response to the ebola virus epidemic because i am very concerned about the continuing worsening of the disease. recognising that the ebola crisis has become complex, with political, security, economic and social implications that will continue to impact the current health emergency, i call on the international community to do its utmost to accelerate and develop effective and safe therapies against ebola and to support and closely cooperate with african partners in the fight against this deadly disease. strongly in line with the european commission which has stepped up its response to the epidemic; announcing an additional €140 million financing package for countries currently affected by the ebola virus.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament's resolution on the ebola epidemic, because it contains a necessary appeal to the international community to launch a more effective and targeted phase of action against the spread of the disease. the spread of the epidemic would be a real threat not only to the african community but to global security. i think it is right that we in the european parliament, motivated by the desire to ensure that the citizens of our countries have a continuing decent health situation, should advocate the need to increase the degree of international responsiveness to a phenomenon which, if it continues to spread, could undermine common stability.
in writing. - i vote in favour of the motion for a resolution by the european parliament on the eu's response to the ebola epidemic. the ebola outbreak is a global security challenge and it is not just an african problem. the world health organization announced that we are facing the largest epidemic ever recorded in terms of cases, casualties and geographical spread and declared the crisis to be "a public health emergency of international concern". the epidemic has been underestimated and it is estimated that the number of patients affected could exceed 20,000 in the next three months. to deal with such a threat, the international community is called upon to play a more active role. in particular, i call on the commission and the member states to step up their efforts and coordinate their actions with the united states and other international partners; to strengthen scientific cooperation and technological support in the areas affected by the outbreak in order to develop clinical, epidemiological and diagnostic infrastructures to meet this challenge.
in writing. - i find the positions taken in the resolution analysing the situation in iraq, syria and the isis offensive to be unbalanced and unwelcome, which is why i did not vote in favour of it.
in writing. - i 'm voting against . the european union is also taking part in the process of negotiating a new agreement with the united states, which is a very complex geopolitical situation which, while it requires immediate action to protect christian minorities, would also require a long-term plan involving powers (russia, for example) which are currently excluded from the diplomatic table.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution to ask the eu to use all possible means to help the iraqi national and local authorities to fight the 'islamic state', including adequate military assistance. the creation and territorial expansion of the 'islamic caliphate' and the activities of other extremist groups in iraq and syria are a direct threat to the security of european countries. in order to stem the flow of financial and material resources to the islamic state, i call for the un arms embargo and asset freeze to be applied more effectively. i also think that the eu should impose sanctions against traders in oil extracted from areas controlled by the islamic state and cut off the financial flows that allow the organisation to do business and exploit tax havens.
in writing. - the humanitarian situation in iraq and syria has deteriorated severely with the occupation of the so-called "islamic state", it is the result of a perverse calculation by bashar al-assad who tries to become the only interlocutor for the international community, isis now demands, in fact, to cancel the sykes-picot agreements and the unjust and arbitrary partition of the treaty of sèvres that ignored tribal cultures, ethnic identities and theological divisions of islam. we believe that a military solution to the conflict would be a flight forward into an even bloodier situation. only the united nations, within its limits, has the authority to intervene and create a humanitarian corridor and prevent further massacres. we must have the courage to renegotiate new, stable borders in the middle east, allowing its peoples to freely determine their own destiny.
in writing. - the advance of isis is deeply worrying, poses a direct threat to the security of the european union and must be stopped. it is sadly known that the region in question is experiencing unprecedented instability and violence, and we have seen with horror the horrific images of the murders of american journalists james foley and steven sotloff and british aid worker david heines. i therefore support the eu's strong condemnation of the terrorist acts, indiscriminate killings and human rights violations, including against christians and other religious and ethnic minorities, committed by isis, and its call for urgent international action to find a lasting political solution to this conflict: i agree with this approach and with the text of the resolution in general, which is why i voted in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this very important european parliament resolution on the grave crisis in iraq and syria caused by the serious offensive by the islamic state. the eu once again strongly affirms the supremacy of democracy, human rights and fundamental freedoms, among which, without any doubt, is the freedom of religion which is guaranteed in europe. the offensive against christians and ethnic and religious minorities is unacceptable. i am convinced that the member states and the entire international community must make every effort to support the iraqi authorities in their fight against the caliphate, to protect all civilians, and to improve the coordination of the actions undertaken to improve their effectiveness. finally, member states should not underestimate the phenomenon of european combatants deciding to join the si and should take the most appropriate measures without delay.
in writing. - i hope that the international community will take joint action to disarm the area in question, and i can only vote in favour of this resolution in view of the critical humanitarian and security situation. the adoption of this resolution should facilitate access to humanitarian support and call on all parties to the conflict to ensure the protection of the civilian population and to comply with their obligations under international humanitarian and human rights law and to provide humanitarian support and assistance to the displaced.
in writing. - the fight is not against islam, but against terrorism. crucifixions, massacres and persecutions of minorities are brutal acts that have nothing to do with religion, nor can they be justified in its name. there are three main lines of action: the blocking of funding that is coming into the hands of isis members through, for example, the black market oil revenues that come from isis-controlled reserves, through the turkish network, and that also comes into europe. to monitor closely, through coordination between european states, the return of the more than 1000 european citizens who left to take part in the struggle of the 'caliphate' movement. to create cooperation with the countries of the middle east, the main protagonists of this struggle, who have denounced the actions of the isis terrorists, and who deplore the assumption that such a war can be considered holy and conducted in the name of allah. europe must not give up its role as peacemaker and mediator and must find the courage to express its dissatisfaction with simplistic and often misleading and counterproductive solutions and analyses.
in writing. - first of all, i would like to begin my statement by expressing my support for all victims of religious intolerance and hatred. i express my solidarity with the members of the persecuted christian communities in iraq and syria and i am voting in favour of this resolution to call on the european union to commit itself to supporting the iraqi authorities in countering the harassment imposed by the islamic state. i consider the indiscriminate killings and human rights violations perpetrated by terrorist organisations against ethnic and religious minorities and the most vulnerable populations to be shameful acts.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution by the european parliament on the situation in iraq and syria in connection with the isis offensive, in order to condemn in the strongest terms what is happening in the middle east. with this vote, the european parliament is taking a position of absolute condemnation of the persecutions against christians, civilians, ethnic and religious minorities and all the incidents of violence that are affecting the lives of local populations. he also denies the self-proclaimed authority of isis and rejects as illegitimate its leadership in support of the officially recognised iraqi authorities. in conclusion, it urges all states to endorse un security council resolutions 2161 (2014) and 2170 (2014), which condemn any direct or indirect trade with is and associated groups.
in writing. - i welcomed the joint resolution on the situation in iraq and syria, because, first of all, it conveys a message of extreme condemnation of the unacceptable acts of violence perpetrated by the is within the area comprising the two countries. i believe that the european union, an example of civilization and social progress, must not miss an opportunity to declare itself the enemy of anyone who represents the weakest. the advance of the terrorist organisation, followed by the outbreak of a full-blown crisis within the area, must be countered, as suggested in the resolution, through a shared commitment involving all the main actors of the international community. i particularly appreciate the support for the establishment of a genuinely representative and inclusive iraqi government, which adequately reflects the political, religious and ethnic diversity of the country.
in writing. - the conflicts and chaos in syria, iraq and libya are not disasters that fell from the sky: in iraq, as in libya, we are seeing the consequences of wars that have literally created failed states, despite the misguided initial intentions. i want to fight for a european policy that becomes independent of the united states: i think it is a good thing that the commission has taken this step. the mass migration and flight of people is an emergency for which we are partly responsible and which we must therefore tackle together as a union, and i therefore deplore the total absence of any proposals for help from the union or the states in the resolution. political action cannot be reduced to calling on the international community to provide military protection and to assist the iraqi and local authorities with military aid while promoting a stronghold europe headed by border control and patrol agencies such as frontex. for the reasons i have mentioned, i voted against this resolution.
in writing. - while i agree with many of the points in this resolution, i believe that libya is going through a very complex socio-political phase and is far from stabilized, and for these reasons i believe that a more wait-and-see approach is more desirable in view of concrete results in the country, so i abstained.
in writing. - abstention from the vote: although it contains some interesting ideas, the text was not convincing. the so-called arab spring has brought about tensions and conflicts that were predictable and now difficult to resolve.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution to condemn the violence in the country, particularly around the cities of tripoli and benghazi, which is due to the continuing fighting between armed groups and their incitement to violence. i call on the commission and the european external action service (eeas) to coordinate member states' actions in libya and to focus their assistance on strengthening the state and institutions and, together with the member states, the united nations, nato and regional partners, to assist in the establishment of effective security forces (armed and police forces), under national command and control, capable of ensuring peace and order in the country. finally, i call on the libyan interim government and the elected house of representatives to reach out to all parties concerned, with the aim of achieving an inclusive agreement and avoiding decisions that could exacerbate divisions instead of building bridges.
in writing. we often think we're making up for our mistakes by repeating them. operation odyssey dawn demonstrated the failure of the strategy of some states that claimed to cultivate democracy in the country simply by bringing down gaddafi with massive bombing. a state of law cannot spontaneously emerge from chaos: 140 tribes and clans that have always been rivals, 42 years of dictatorship, two parliaments, two governments, territorial militias of various kinds... and the first victims are libyan citizens. the rest of the bill is paid by europeans who look out over the mediterranean: 140,000 desperate migrants this year alone, 118,000 of them in italy alone, 2,500 dead since the beginning of 2014, 2,200 since june. the eu is still hesitating. europe must be truly united not only in its diversity but above all in its adversity. let's prove it with facts!
in writing. - the deterioration of the libyan situation poses pressing humanitarian and security problems both within the libyan territory and for the neighbouring countries and europe as a whole. the resolution calls for the "unprecedented number" of migrants seeking asylum who, departing from libya, reach the italian or maltese coasts or die in the mediterranean. it is clear that political instability has contributed to the increase in the flight of libyan citizens, especially to malta and italy. the european union is the leading country in the management of continuous migratory flows and in rescuing refugees at sea. the resolution's call for the union and its member states to support italy in the migration emergency shows the awareness of the enormous effort my country is making. the very high number of refugees is not the only problem that the union and the states have the responsibility to address, since it is essential that they take charge of the serious political, institutional and humanitarian crisis (with disturbing scenarios, increasing violence, massive violations of rights and war crimes) as a whole. the resolution moves in the right direction by calling on the european commission and other international bodies to support the creation of effective security forces and, among other things, to accompany the country in the reform of the judicial system. for these reasons i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - the situation in libya is alarming: the european union is facing a complex and unpredictable scenario which cannot be underestimated, particularly in terms of the terrorist threat. moreover, this situation has dramatic repercussions on the european union, including the immigration emergency. the latter particularly concerns our country and i am deeply concerned about it. as stated in the resolution, the european union and the member states must support libya in addressing the root of the problem, promoting the cessation of hostilities and the restoration of violated human rights for the welfare of the libyan people, and on the other hand help and support our country in dealing with the flow of migrants from libya, and that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this very important european parliament resolution on the situation in libya. the eu once again strongly affirms the supremacy of democracy, human rights and fundamental freedoms. the increasing violence must be strongly condemned. in addition, an effective union response is needed to the constant and continuous arrival of asylum seekers and irregular migrants on the italian and maltese coasts. we can no longer stand by and wait for a firm decision. it is essential that european policy in this field should provide decisive answers, and also encourage solidarity between the member states, which is a key principle in the process of european integration. finally, a tribute to the women in libya who have played and are playing a key role in the transition and can still make a valuable contribution to the decision-making process.
in writing. - to condemn the increasing violence, particularly against the civilian population and civilian institutions, and to call upon all the belligerent parties to cease all violence immediately and to agree to a ceasefire in order to put an end to the growing suffering of the population. i hope that this resolution will lead to an inclusive national political dialogue for the creation of a state based on respect for human rights, democracy and the rule of law. i have given my full support to this resolution, so that those responsible for violations of human rights and international humanitarian law can also be held accountable for their actions.
in writing. - once again we are faced with a brutal military escalation which, on the one hand, continues to make us feel, as european citizens, absolutely powerless and helpless and, on the other hand, shows us the atrocities of its consequences which inevitably end up directly affecting our coasts and our countries. it is not acceptable to continue to cry out in anger and pain over the human tragedies that are repeated every day in our seas, and to do absolutely nothing to put an end to them. it is not enough to do everything in our power - and i say this as an italian citizen - to give a dignified welcome to those who are fleeing from situations that are absolutely unimaginable to us. it is not enough, but we must continue to do so, giving as europeans all the necessary support to the states which are more than others in the front line of reception. the task of europe, however, must be to go to the source, to go to the root of the trafficking and activities, which are mostly criminal, that foment such barbarity. maximum control over the channels (oil, arms, drugs) which allow the financing of associations which oppose the legitimate authorities, calling into question their right and undermining the processes of democratization.
in writing. - the decision to vote in favour of the motion for a resolution on the situation in libya stems, first of all, from the awareness that the aspiration for greater stability within europe's borders cannot be without a keen interest in the political and social situation in the neighbouring countries. the integrity of our member states is often compromised as a result of the unrest taking place within the neighbouring regions. i therefore think it is right that, as requested in the text, the eu should be even more involved in the stabilisation process in libya, which is inextricably linked to a path of democratic transition. the document endorsed in particular the call for a national political dialogue aimed at the creation of a libyan state based on respect for human rights, democracy and the rule of law. the call on the eu and its member states to provide concrete support to italy in its efforts to manage the migratory flows from north africa, and in particular from libya, is also welcome.
in writing. - i think that the resolution analysing the eu's role in the israeli-palestinian crisis following the gaza war is too unbalanced in favour of palestine alone, and therefore unbalanced, and that is why i did not intend to support it with my vote.
in writing. - i 'm voting against . the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. that is not the way to promote conflict resolution.
in writing. - ensuring full and unconditional access for humanitarian aid to the people of the gaza strip must be a priority. i therefore urge the international community to further intensify its efforts in this regard and to respond urgently to emergency requests for funding. in particular, the eu must develop options for effective and comprehensive action in the following areas: full access and full movement through all gaza ports of entry, humanitarian aid and post-war reconstruction and rehabilitation through international donor efforts, including the possible organisation of a donor conference. i urge the eu to live up to its historic responsibilities as a genuine political actor in the middle east, including through a european peace plan and initiative for a comprehensive solution to the israeli-palestinian conflict, which will have to be presented and negotiated at an international peace conference. i would stress again that the eu, as a major trading partner and donor in the region, has a wide range of instruments at its disposal, particularly in the area of trade policy, to encourage both sides to resume peace negotiations in earnest and to achieve tangible results in this regard, and i would urge that this leverage be used more effectively in the context of the union's bilateral relations with israel and the palestinian authority.
in writing. - the military operations in the gaza strip in recent years have always turned into a massacre, affecting both israeli and palestinian military and civilians. we do not support factions, we do not support governments in this tragedy, we support the civilian population, the ordinary people who suffer and whose lives are torn apart by the insane choices of opposing extremism. the priorities in the gaza strip are the opening of the airport and the construction of a port, the reconstruction of essential infrastructure and the stabilisation of a territorial context that urgently needs stability and peace to revive a social fabric destroyed by both internal and external tensions. the monitoring of the illicit trafficking of arms is a necessary corollary to the future strength of these projects. we want europe to do its part by extending and revitalizing the eubam mission and not just expressing good intentions.
in writing. - i voted for the resolution. after the latest conflict in gaza, which has caused loss of life and unacceptable suffering to the civilian population on both sides, i share the absolute need, highlighted in the text, for the continuation of a constructive dialogue, currently under way between the israeli government and the palestinian national consensus government. it is in the common interest of the european union and its member states that there should be no conflict in regions close to us, and it is unacceptable that the people of both sides should have to pay the terrible consequences of such conflicts.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on israel and palestine after the war in gaza. the resumption of dialogue between the israeli government and the palestinian consensus government is certainly a positive development and we all hope that it will continue and that the palestinian consensus government will assume full authority in the gaza strip so that a climate of peace can be maintained and there is no falling back into anarchy. at the same time, it is also important that the neighbouring countries, egypt and jordan, both continue their efforts and contribute to the building of a lasting peace in the middle east.
in writing. - having regard to the importance of ensuring full and unconditional access to humanitarian aid for the people of the gaza strip, i am voting in favour of this resolution in order to urge the international community to further intensify its efforts in this regard and to respond urgently to the emergency requests for additional funding for unrwa. in order to invite all relevant actors in the region to ensure that humanitarian aid reaches without delay those in need of basic goods and services in gaza, with particular attention to the provision of water and electricity as well as to the specific needs of children. i am concerned about the alleged cases of intentional blocking of humanitarian aid supplies to gaza, but i stress that eu financial and humanitarian assistance must be entirely directed to the palestinian population and must never be used, directly or indirectly, for terrorist activities. with a view to ensuring a comprehensive and sustainable solution for the security, well-being and prosperity of both palestinians and israelis, and to take note of the eu's commitment to developing effective and comprehensive actions in the areas of mobility and access, capacity building, verification and monitoring of humanitarian aid and post-conflict reconstruction.
in writing. - after much effort egypt was able to broker an agreement that led to a ceasefire between israel and palestine after seven weeks of hostilities. although the 1949 geneva conventions governing the law of war make a clear distinction between military and civilian targets, the casualties among the latter have been many, with over 500 palestinian children having lost their lives during the fighting. all of this has created a serious humanitarian crisis in gaza. europe can do much in the reconstruction and economic recovery of gaza, in the return of humanitarian aid and in ensuring that it reaches those who really need it, through a transparent and coordinated process. in this context, active participation in the international donors' conference scheduled for 12 october 2014 in cairo will be important. europe must play a more active political role in this context and act as a mediator for a lasting solution. the role of the high representative will be crucial in the mediation. the s&d group visited the israeli and palestinian territories to open a political dialogue with all the parties concerned. it is important to support president mahmoud abbas, a man of peace and dialogue.
in writing. - first of all, i would like to pay tribute to the palestinian and israeli victims of the violent conflict in the gaza strip. i urge the european union to play a more active political role in achieving a just and lasting peace between israelis and palestinians. europe can and must play a more active role in contributing to the strengthening of long-term and sustainable global security, and to the well-being and prosperity of the peoples involved; i welcome the eu's willingness to develop solutions for effective and comprehensive action in the areas of freedom of access and movement, humanitarian assistance and post-conflict reconstruction.
in writing. - i have offered my support to the motion for a resolution on israel-palestine following the gaza war because, firstly, it strongly supports any attempt to achieve a lasting and fully respected ceasefire agreement between the two parties. i think it is good that, through this document, the european parliament is speaking out, on the one hand, for the need to offer real support to the political parties, movements and citizens of israel who have opposed the israeli aggression and, on the other hand, for the need to support, through concrete humanitarian missions, the reconstruction of the territory of gaza, following a military siege that lasted 50 days.
in writing. - i shall vote in favour of the motion for a resolution by the european parliament on israel-palestine after the gaza war and the role of the eu. the military aggression launched by israel in july, known as the 'protective line', resulted in the deaths of 2 150 palestinians, including 503 children, 260 women, 95 elderly people and 14 journalists, and more than 12 500 wounded. 450 000 people have been internally displaced and 1 400 children have lost both parents. in the face of such a humanitarian catastrophe, the european union must take an uncompromising stance towards israel. our task is to work for peace and coexistence. the eu has the power, if it wants to, to 'enforce' peace. so play your part to the end.
in writing. - i find the resolution under vote unbalanced, which is why i did not vote in favour of it.
in writing. - i vote against the proposal, in my opinion instrumental, by the gue and green political groups which raise (under rule 105 iv of the rules of procedure) an objection to a delegated act of the european commission re-inserting the fiji islands in annex i to regulation 1528/2007 on trade preferences for african, caribbean and pacific countries.
in writing. - on wednesday, september 17, 2014, fijians went to the polls to elect a democratic parliament, choosing from 262 candidates from seven different parties. in the light of the democratic elections that have already taken place, i have therefore voted against this resolution because i do not think there is a valid reason to exclude fiji from the interim economic partnership agreement.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of this resolution because i do not think it is appropriate to make agreements with self-proclaimed military governments. although the government of fiji has ratified the interim economic partnership agreement, i consider its validity to be illegitimate until the elections are held in accordance with democratic principles.
member of the commission. - mr president, on behalf of the commission and commissioner georgieva, i would like to make the following statement. the recent heavy floods which have hit northern italy and claimed at least three lives, causing several million euros' worth of damage, show once again the importance of sustainable investment in better preparedness against disasters. i would like to focus on three main points. first of all, natural disasters have become more frequent and more intense over recent decades, not only globally but also in europe. urbanisation, population growth and environmental degradation have very much contributed to this trend. it is estimated that average annual losses over the last decade have risen to eur 200 billion, with floods accounting for 35% of all losses. if we take last year’s floods in central europe alone, these are estimated to have cost eur 17 billion, topping the list of the costliest natural disasters in 2013. this spring, the floods in serbia and bosnia-herzegovina, croatia and bulgaria also caused widespread devastation and left more than one hundred people dead and half a million people homeless. fortunately, the damage caused by the current floods in northern italy and southern france is not on the same scale, but still reflects the same trend. this brings me to my second point. what is the european union doing to better manage natural disasters? natural hazards such as floods cannot be prevented, but the number of lives they take and the damage they cause can be greatly reduced through better preparation and protection. another major benefit, investment in prevention, is cost-effective. on average, for instance, every euro spent on prevention saves between four and seven euros that would have been spent once a disaster has hit. so the commission is implementing the approach across various policy areas, including civil protection, the environment and also regional policy and research and development. the most visible piece of eu legislation relating to flood management is certainly the floods directive, which has been in force since 2007 and which establishes a framework for the assessment and management of flood risks. flood risk management plans focusing on prevention, protection and preparedness should set the objectives and include the measures to achieve flood risk reduction. thanks to the support of parliament, we also have a new mechanism for disaster-proofing the major infrastructure projects covered under the environmental impact assessment directive. there are also provisions to disaster-proof new investments funded by the eu’s structural funds. flood prevention is actually receiving the bulk of available regional policy funds earmarked for risk prevention. for instance, for the 2007-2013 period, funding made available to member states to invest in risk prevention, including against floods – so this is risk prevention in its entirety but it includes floods as well – in risk management and in climate change adaptation amounted to around eur 60.5 billion. now the first estimates for the new 2014-2020 period show that this sum would increase to eur 78 billion. related projects include maintaining or developing flood plains such as along the tisza river in hungary; cross-border and transnational cooperation on flood prevention; the deployment of early warning systems, as well as support to civil protection. a concrete example of support is the eu strategy for the danube region, supporting projects to develop a common risk assessment methodology for the region. we have also come a very long way in the area of civil protection, which showed its benefits also during the recent italian floods – more about this in a moment. and, as of this year, we have our new civil protection legislation in place, with a very strong focus on preparedness and prevention, building up a voluntary pool of disaster response capacities, better response planning, a training network and reinforced cooperation among authorities in the field of training and exercises. of course, these are the things which have already been done. what else can be done? as regards the floods in northern italy, since i was referring to the civil protection mechanism, i must say that the italian authorities saw no need to activate the eu civil protection mechanism, but on 16 october requested activation of the eu copernicus emergency mapping system. what else can be done? i think, in conclusion, we also need to engage more closely with industry. we need to put disaster management firmly on the agenda of eu finance ministers because it is cost-effective. by investing euros in prevention, we save much more when disasters actually happen. let me conclude by stressing that we are now equipped with the tools not to completely prevent, but to mitigate and manage disasters, including floods.
i am speaking on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i am speaking in the wake of the floods which have affected the maremma, lower piedmont, trieste, parma and my own city, genoa. in italy, the territory is fragile; four out of five municipalities are at risk from hydrogeological hazards. the political response is weak and the emergency is recurring. we spend a billion dollars a year on flood damage, but only a hundred on flood prevention. it is an emergency, as the commissioner said, which affects almost all of europe. the causes are many: i think that we need to think about climate change, and the cementation and the abandonment of the countryside. we need a cultural and political revolution to mitigate the risks, although we have to tell the truth: we will have to learn to live with it, because unfortunately there is no such thing as zero risk. europe can and must give an effective response, but a more transversal approach is needed, because in several areas, for example, aid to small farmers is at the same time a means of combating poverty, and this is only one example. we need to invest, and part of the structural funds must be devoted to prevention. not only that, i think that part of the 300 billion announced by junker should be used to protect our homes and businesses from mud.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to greet commissioner borg. he also appointed commissioner georgieva. i have had the honour of being rapporteur on the new european civil protection mechanism, so i will not repeat what we have said so many times in this house. it is all right what has been said, and it is important to remember how we have tried in the new civil protection mechanism to emphasize and give a new space to prevention, because we are aware that prevention is what we urgently need in europe today. but as an italian, let me remind you that in the last few months we have indeed suffered a series of dramatic disasters that have caused 11 deaths and immense devastation: the flood of imola in upper romagna, the flood of alexandria, parma, the maremma and genoa. we have tried to build a system with our mechanism which is able to bring together all the resources and expertise that europe is capable of expressing. my country is particularly difficult and fragile, but i would like to take this opportunity to tell my italian colleagues who are the representatives of the political forces which are now in government in italy to be careful, because as the mayors sound the alarm, launch the coalition for the prevention of hydrogeological risk, in italy we are in danger of losing sight of subsidiarity. it is right then that europe should play its part and we are doing so and i believe that we did so in the last legislature, but we cannot assume that the responses of the territory come from europe. it's dangerous, the mayors say: the direction taken by the decree ....
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on 18 november a serious flood unfortunately devastated the coasts of sardinia, including olbia, where it caused several deaths and extensive damage. so, the same thing happened in liguria, exactly in genoa a few days ago. italy is always asking for help and funds from europe. theoretically, these funds should have been used to restore bridges or rivers, to act in a clear, clean and honest way, but instead we have seen, for example, that this money and many other public funds have been used to reward employees who have often caused this damage through their negligence. sometimes it happens in other european countries too. we now want to know whether the commission intends to monitor and continue to monitor where this public money is going.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, another flood has hit the city of genoa. just three years after the 2011 flood that had already brought citizens and businesses to their knees. the mayor of genoa has declared that the city has been hit by yet another catastrophe. i wish the mayor of genoa was here to remind him and previous administrations that they are the ones who hurt genoa. they have hurt it by building on riverbeds, by burying waterways, and by spending billions of euros on large, useless works rather than prevention. and i would like to speak to those who have worked on the environment in the liguria region, and i can do that, because our colleague briano is here with us, she spoke a little while ago. politics - i would remind you, my dear colleague - is responsible for what it does and what it does not do, your party has been running cities and regions for thirty years; when hundreds of businesses have to close, when innocent people lose their lives because there was no prevention, i wish there was someone to blame, i wish someone could pay for what they should have done and didn't do. it is not the waters that kill the victims of floods, but the people every time they throw concrete into the rivers and every time prevention is hindered, so i ask you what did you do when you were dealing with the environment in liguria? what did you do to prevent what happened in genoa? and the same is true of the lower piedmont, where we have seen the same things. this region is also chronically flooded and inundated.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it has been pointed out on several occasions that northern italy, along with other regions of europe, has been hit by a series of exceptional weather events which, combined with the fragility of the territory, have caused great damage to the local economy, public infrastructure and private property. the inconveniences to the population are enormous, so much so that massive intervention by civil protection is necessary. unfortunately, weather forecasts predict that these weather events may be repeated in the coming weeks, affecting other areas. in this regard, i call on the european commission to consider the immediate activation of the eu solidarity fund, with particular reference to the content of the agreement adopted by a large majority in this parliament last april 2014, which provides for longer deadlines and faster procedures for the delivery of support to the civilian population. in particular, mr president, i am referring to the provisions for an advance payment of 10% of the total amount of aid, which is a top priority for the people who have suffered the most damage and for the infrastructure affected.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, genoa was hit by a severe flood a few weeks ago. we've heard it from many other colleagues. too bad it's a flood that created very similar damage to the one in 2011. europe - as mr van nistelrooij has pointed out - has made solidarity funds available for emergencies: but have they been spent? that's the question we have to ask ourselves. the commission notes that the measures provided for in this decision are in accordance with the opinion of the committee on regional policy, then let those in power take full responsibility! did the bidding go wrong? the tar didn't give the suspension and so it's another excuse that's used. there are still 2 billion euros to be spent on hydrogeological disasters. why didn't the politicians spend it to repair the damage of 2011 and to prevent it as you said? in the end, the one who is harmed is the citizen who regularly pays taxes, but still does not receive money for the damage of the 2011 flood, and so the politics must take a hand on their conscience and take responsibility.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in circumstances such as these, which have affected many countries of the european union, especially in recent years, it is always very important not to forget the usefulness of solidarity - but we must not stop there. we must also intervene with investments, as you said, so that there are effective prevention measures, and those that have been taken have not always had this function, but we must also, i believe, take note of a new development, a development that is not positive. in all the most recent circumstances, including the most recent ones which have affected my city, genoa and my country, but not only that they have involved, even before that, large countries in central europe, the use of technology and knowledge has now proved to be completely inadequate. in these situations, the alarm was sounded very late, not only because of bureaucratic limitations and administrative errors, which have also occurred, but above all because the instruments available today are no longer sufficient. there is a clear lag, a huge gap to be bridged, between the effects that climate change produces and the ability of our science and our technology to predict the magnitude and the speed of it. i believe that the european union must make an extraordinary effort in this direction.
in writing. in italy we have had to witness, once again, a devastating flood, which struck genoa on 9 and 10 october. this is a european problem, and a european solution must be sought, which cannot be limited to ex post aid but must above all include effective preventive measures. according to a study on climate change, floods cost the european union an average of around €4.9 billion per year between 2000 and 2012. in 2013 alone, extreme floods, which mainly affected central europe and the uk, caused an estimated €12 billion in damage and by 2050 their frequency could increase from an average of once every 16 years to once every 10 years, affecting multiple nations at the same time, with an increase in the resulting economic losses of 500 percent. we can no longer afford to ignore the problem of climate change, which affects us all. this is why we must combine important instruments such as the european solidarity fund, whose activation should be speeded up and simplified, with a major investment in research for prevention, much more substantial than the 11 million euros recently spent by the european union in this field.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the ebola virus is spreading with alarming speed in the central african countries, claiming victims whose numbers seem to be growing exponentially. the rest of the world is rightly committed to preventing the spread of the deadly disease that the virus brings, but it must be taken seriously that the international response in the countries really affected by this plague has been extremely late. despite early warnings from ngos, particularly doctors without borders, international institutions have wasted precious time in curbing the spread and saving thousands of lives. the imperative now is to save lives in the hardest-hit countries and prevent the development of a pandemic, but a separate reflection deserves an aspect that has been little discussed, namely the possible causes of the resurgence of the viral attack. fruit bats belonging to the pteroptida family are known to be healthy carriers of the virus. these harmless mammals usually live in the less accessible parts of the forests, but their deadly host can easily be passed on to other animals that feed on fruits already bitten by bats or by the animals themselves. yet another cause of the rapid spread of the virus is: the massive deforestation. these animals, like those of many other species, are increasingly being driven near human settlements as their natural habitat is destroyed by human greed.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, exit screening, this reinforcement, is the only solution that the commission has today: the mountain gave birth to the mouse, it's of little use! if the incubation period is three weeks, late-decided, late-enforced exit screening is of little use. if the virus spreads to europe or other continents, it will be your fault! on 23 september, a month ago, commissioner tonio borg came to milan to say that there was no risk to europe, everything was circumscribed: alice in wonderland and you're still not saying anything! experts say that there will definitely be expansion in europe and it will happen through air transport and even now on arrival in europe, unlike what is done in other continents, for example in the united states, there is no screening on arrival. are you crazy? so you are responsible for the predicted announcement, the spread of ebola in europe and elsewhere! you can't do anything for poor africans and you don't care about us europeans!
in writing. the risk of ebola spreading is becoming dramatically more tangible in europe as well. in recent weeks i have asked the european commission in a question to take urgent measures to strengthen surveillance at international points of entry. today, the foreign ministers of the member states meeting in luxembourg formalised a common response to the ebola epidemic by identifying a 'single coordinator'. this is an important first step, but it cannot be enough: health systems in many european countries are still inadequate. concerns remain that the outbreak could turn into a full-blown pandemic. in the run-up to the vaccine, and welcoming the appropriations announced today by commissioner borg, i believe it is more urgent than ever that more concrete measures be taken, a master plan, as was said earlier, to prevent the disease from spreading to europe as well. europe must be able to provide the greatest possible assistance to the countries affected by this tragic epidemic. let us not make the mistake of taking lightly what is happening a few thousand kilometres from strasbourg. it is a major challenge for humanity and europe must do its part! if we cannot save africa, we cannot save europe.
in writing. why is the ebola epidemic spreading? according to the new york times, who has put over 400 people to work on this international emergency. so far, the hemorrhagic fever has caused 2,400 deaths... and could be as high as 20,000 according to the who. how come you can't arrest her? since the financial crisis began, the world health organization has had to cut nearly a billion dollars, investing in global chronic diseases and reducing funding and staffing for major epidemics. hospitals lack the tools to prevent infections: liberia is the fourth poorest country in the world, 83 percent of the population living on less than a dollar a day. now who is asking for $490 million from donors and thousands of foreign and local health workers to contain the outbreak. few, however, responded to the call. it's a disgrace to the international community. perhaps the real epidemic that has infected naive europe and the whole world is the illusion that we can live safely in our own backyard while the forest around us is being consumed by fire.
, in writing. the meeting of health ministers on 16 october was an important opportunity to discuss measures to prevent ebola in europe, starting with a tightening of controls on passengers from west africa. it will be essential to ensure that the established control system, which assigns to the centre for the prevention and control of communicable diseases the task of sending verification reports on operations in african countries, remains flexible, effective and able to be adapted promptly to the evolution of the spread of the epidemic. the eu ministers meeting did not, however, recommend a common approach to entry checks, which will therefore be applied differently: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. to deal with the spread of such an exceptional virus, europe must demonstrate the political will to take extraordinary measures. additional funds should be urgently mobilised to support the affected african countries: it is up to europe, the world's leading donor to the region, to put in place new resources. europe is showing foresight by urgently mobilising research funding under horizon 2020 and by launching rapid funding procedures for ebola research projects in cooperation with who.
in writing. according to who data, updated on 10 october, the death toll from ebola virus is 4,033 and in resolution 2177 the un security council declared the ebola virus to be "a threat to international peace and security". the european commission's funding to date amounts to some eur 180 million in humanitarian and development aid. we believe it is absolutely necessary to put in place control systems so that this budget is actually used to combat the epidemic in the countries affected by the virus (guinea, sierra leone, liberia and nigeria) and is not used for other purposes. we also call on the commission to: how will it monitor the 38 million euro that has been allocated (among other things) to improve food security, water supply and sanitation, as well as preventing potential famine in quarantine areas?
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the president of the council, mr matteo renzi, said in milan: a europe that thinks only of its own limitations is a barren europe, without growth there is no work, without work there is no dignity, without dignity there is no europe. let's talk about constraints: for months the five star movement has been asking for flexibility on the 3% limit and what we hear from the popular and the socialists is always the same: there is no growth without discipline. renzi's pd party has reluctantly endorsed the austerity supercommissioner katainen and is about to endorse the new government of europe: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the programme to include the following areas: without work, there is no dignity! president renzi has said the right thing. unfortunately, he is merely saying that because in italy the president wants to make it easier to dismiss workers by abolishing the guarantees they have. without dignity there is no europe, but what we are witnessing here is a europe without dignity, a europe which is asking the greeks to give the parthenon as collateral for a loan. a europe which imposes balanced budgets. so we assume that president renzi said what he really thinks: more discipline, less growth, less rights and as far as work is concerned, he has not thought about it.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, a few days ago our citizens looked to the milan labour summit to see if something would change. instead, they have seen the same disappointing spectacle again and again: a parade of powerful, well-dressed people unable to find a solution to the job problem. twenty-five million unemployed, including 18 million in the euro zone and 3 million in italy, are calling out loud for europe to question the choices on which they have built the foundations of this failure. i am referring to the wrong currency, the fixed budgetary parameters which are required by the european treaties. they have a worldview that helps immigrants and doesn't help europeans, doesn't help our youth, our unemployed. if the european union is to have a future, it must move beyond the superficial and good-natured propaganda with which it has dealt with problems up to now. no more words, no more pointless verbs! we have to do this! we need a new monetary policy, we need a new investment policy that supports economic growth first. we need a new foreign policy that does not demonize economic partners vital to our entrepreneurs like russia. we need a different europe, and we need to change quickly before it is too late.
madam president, let me first thank the italian presidency for having taken the initiative and the commitment to organise the high level conference on employment in milan. it is important that italy be insistent and determined on this front. fixing unemployment and youth unemployment must remain europe’s number one priority. for this reason, it is now essential that we make a unified effort towards creating quality jobs. we must remain focused, since – let me repeat this – the crisis is by no means over yet. i particularly welcome the opening of a dialogue on the matter of the system of co-financing for european projects. grounds for agreement were found on the need to reform the system, which at the moment does not allow countries – especially those engaging in reforms – to strike a proper balance between their deficit rules and growth. this is a very important step in the right direction which will give member states greater flexibility, which is much needed. it will be essential for the next european council on 23 and 24 october to sketch out specific proposals for jobs and job creation in europe. in particular, it is imperative that very specific responses be given to the requests from the parliament to know how the eur 300 billion investment plan presented by president juncker will be financed. parliament is uncomfortable with vagueness on the issue of the sources of financing. the people demand and deserve clarifications on this. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
it's a blue-card question. i'm not sure what it is. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i wanted to ask mr benifei how he thinks, if he has ever worked in an italian small and mediumsized company, how a small and mediumsized company in italy can be competitive and create new jobs with a taxation of almost 70% on the labour market, as we have it and as you are setting it up with your party at the moment in italy.
answer to a blue-card question. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank mrs beghin for giving me the opportunity to reply, and let us note how many colleagues from the efdd group, the italian crickets, are answering and asking questions about italian issues instead of asking questions about what has been discussed in this chamber. this is not a cricket meetup! on the question that has been raised, which is not entirely relevant, i think that what is being tried in italy, also in europe, is to improve the situation for our enterprises. but it seems to me a provocative question: it's hard to answer in 20 seconds.
member of the commission. - madam president, honourable members, i believe the milan summit of heads of state and government was a step forward, compared to berlin and paris, because prime ministers and leaders of public employment services spoke in much more concrete terms about the youth guarantee and its implementation in their respective countries than in previous cases. indeed, there were reports about the progress being made and the commission also keeps reporting about the results of pilot projects, as well as the actual youth guarantee implementation, on its own website. ms paunova and others who were asking about this can find information about it on the dg employment website, and i have also been reporting regularly to this house about the progress made. the youth guarantee is, as you know, an eu-wide initiative, but it is not a uniform model. it is tailor-made. countries themselves were designing their own youth guarantee implementation plans according to common guidelines which were provided at eu level. this is something to be emphasised, because mr mureșan as well as mr arnott were asking about this aspect. certainly, the youth guarantee is tailor-made in the case of each and every eu member state. we took inspiration from the pioneers, austria and finland, inside the eu and all countries have to apply the common principles – the four-month deadline, for example, and the importance of quality jobs, apprenticeships, training or learning according to their own needs and capacity. we have to clarify in such a broad discussion what the youth guarantee actually is and what it is not. the youth guarantee is primarily about the school-to-work transition. it is about improving school and training performance; improving labour market performance and the connection between the two, because this is where many young people, including the so called neets, have been lost – and not only at the time of the crisis. we are not only responding to the crisis with the youth guarantee, but also to the previous model of economic development, which was not inclusive enough and because of which europe was losing significant growth potential. the youth guarantee is certainly not a tool against deflation because, again, on deflation it is the european central bank which needs to act, and the surplus countries of the euro zone, by boosting investment and also wages. it is not a tool to generally promote industrial competitiveness, because innovation has to be promoted for that purpose, and it is certainly not a tool to respond to asymmetric shocks in the monetary union, because for that we would need a counter-cyclical fiscal capacity. the new financial instrument, the youth employment initiative, is in a way an embryonic fiscal capacity to respond also to the cyclical rise of youth unemployment in the european union, but it has to function according to the rules of the structural funds. the commission has to observe these rules and we have to be held accountable according to the regulations. i am sure that is also what the house would demand from the commission. nevertheless, the commission has been doing its utmost to help the member states to accelerate implementation of the youth guarantee and the financial instruments supporting it. we have been helping to design the programmes; we have been helping to exchange experiences and also accelerating the adoption when necessary. those who are still not satisfied with the speed, like ms steinruck and mr ropé, obviously would like to see a different type of fiscal capacity, for example in the form of automatic stabilisers, because that would indeed immediately provide financial support, but under the current design of the emu, such capacity does not exist. i think mr kósa is right. apart from the young generation, we also have to speak seriously and also act seriously about the unemployment in the european union. the youth, those under 25, represent about a fifth of total unemployment in the european union. total unemployment in the last one year has been falling, contrary to what some members of this house actually believe. the problem is that it has not been falling fast enough, it has not been falling everywhere, and very often the quality of the new jobs is not what we would like to see. indeed the quality of employment has also suffered during the crisis years and the commission’s initiatives have to respond to all these aspects: the speed of job creation, the balanced nature of economic growth and also the quality of employment. where the overall macroeconomic picture is concerned – and i agree with ms regner, this is very important – it is obviously true that the youth guarantee alone will not create a job-rich recovery. we outlined an employment package in 2012 with a host of measures that need to be taken: shifting taxation away from labour, for example, which member states are capable of doing just very, very slowly, but it also should be seen as a priority. boosting entrepreneurship and helping enterprises to employ more people is indeed an important part of this broader policy. but certainly, when we are facing the risk of another downturn it is also important that fiscal as well as monetary policies use their existing room for manoeuvre to stimulate the economy and to boost investment, which certainly should not remain just a buzz word of our time. i do not think it is helpful when some blame migrants for the level of unemployment in the eu, including for youth unemployment. in fact the two countries that receive the highest numbers of migrant workers in the europe union, germany and the uk, are doing relatively well. germany has had relatively low unemployment rates during the crisis as well and the uk is experiencing one of the fastest falls in unemployment, despite having received relatively large numbers of eu migrants. finally, on the question of decent work, because indeed this has been a priority for the commission, not only inside the eu but also internationally, just in the last one year we rolled out a number of initiatives: the quality framework on restructuring, the quality framework on traineeships, a new health and safety strategy for the next seven years and the european platform proposal against undeclared work. all these initiatives are supposed to help boost the quality of employment and improve industrial relations in the european union, but certainly they do not cover all aspects of the employment policy in the member states because a large part of it is dependent on national law, for example in the case which has been mentioned, about hungary. indeed, the commission finds it regrettable that some of these domestic measures have caused serious damage to the quality of employment, and the country operates with an inflated public scheme which is on the one hand quite costly and secondly does not help many of the participants reintegrate into the labour market at a later stage. but we have been promoting this as well inside the eu and we have been doing that also internationally, in the context of the g20. just yesterday we had a meeting with the representatives of bangladesh, involving the ilo as well, because we cannot allow unfair competition to continue internationally which does not respect the rights of workers and does not protect workers from risks to their health and safety at the workplace. i hope you find all these initiatives positive and helpful. we remain committed to boosting the quality of employment in general, but also specifically for young people in europe.
president of the council. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, very briefly because i do not think there are any conclusions to be drawn. i would like to thank all the members who have taken part in the debate with enthusiastic speeches which show the common interest and the common objective which i believe all of us europeans in different positions have, namely to tackle and possibly start to solve the issue of employment, youth employment in particular, employment in other categories with difficulties and possibly good employment. the start of the solution of structural problems such as those caused by unemployment cannot be achieved without a consistent commitment by the member states and the union institutions, which must be achieved through concrete and effective measures to be implemented quickly and without red tape. other high-level meetings that reinforce the momentum of those in berlin, paris and milan, which are obviously not places where solutions are found and implemented, but i believe they are places where open discussion and open discussion can make concrete policy progress. they will certainly help to accompany the measures already decided upon and to deepen the analysis of the conditions necessary for the recovery of employment initiated at the milan conference. i would like to thank all those who have spoken for their attention and contribution.
the third meeting on employment held in milan on 8 october did not produce the desired results: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the programme to include the following areas: as structural unemployment and disparities in national labour markets, especially in terms of the skills of jobseekers and the type of work available on the labour market, are increasing within the eu, reform is urgently needed. what went wrong, why no concrete and timely answers were provided on issues such as: wage bargaining models, adaptability to business cycle conditions; rebalancing of labour costs; design and adoption of unemployment benefits and insurance schemes; degree of flexibility in entering and leaving the labour market, labour mobility and rationalization of contract forms; and skills profile of unemployed workers? it is unacceptable that the heads of state or government have not been able to produce a joint document and have not formalised a programme of meetings aimed at solving the employment problems. expectations do not pay, especially during crises, and we risk finding ourselves in a subsequent analysis not only of poverty but also of the reasons for extremism in europe.
in writing. the risk that such important meetings, such as the one in milan on employment, may turn into a useless catwalk if concrete contents are not developed is well founded. the italian semester is almost over and we are still talking in a generic way without really addressing, and above all resolving, youth unemployment, the all-italian question of the expatriates and the wage gap between men and women in equal work. no more gateways that separate the european institutions from the citizens. the milan summit, among other things, took place in the wake of severe flooding which has affected economically very important regions of italy. there was no solidarity at the summit with regard to these events from the eu leaders.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. - mr president, commissioner, as you know and as mr pimenta knows. della vedova, the internal market is one of the three pillars of economic and social activity of this collection of organizations and institutions which today gives life to the european union. we have emphasized this very much in the report, together with other colleagues, because it is important for the future of the union that we proceed along the path of creation and uniformity in the production of services, also in the conditions that affect both companies and people who work. it is important, as was mentioned, that the single market should have very important elements of competitiveness in order to create jobs and to sustain and strengthen growth. we must therefore start, and i would stress this by research and innovation. i would say, however, that in order to have research and innovation, we must have resources available. it is a little strange that in the next few hours we will be discussing a budgetary hypothesis that cuts spending on research and innovation. maybe it helps to stop and think.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this report has not been watered down; it now reflects what i can call the political direction of the new commission. a political line is being formed, which is being defined with the help of the various groups supporting the new commission. i see four key elements in this resolution: the first is the need to launch the €300 billion investment plan announced by juncker as soon as possible. the second emphasises the importance of making the best use of the flexibility already provided for in the stability pact. thirdly, the role of structural reforms in strengthening medium- and long-term growth. fourthly, the need to strengthen the social dimension of european policies. and these four elements are closely linked. public and private investment is an essential ingredient for the rapid recovery of the european economy. at the same time, the flexibility provided for by the rules should be used in the event of exceptional circumstances, such as a prolonged recession or inflation expectations well below the european objectives. it is not only functional to get out of resignation but also to encourage and finance reforms. investment and flexibility can help to encourage, create mechanisms to make recommendations more binding and finally social cohesion, it is also a factor of competitiveness and growth. so there is emerging, and this is the political fact, a broad consensus on a new line of economic policy and it is to be hoped that the outgoing commission, in its assessment of national stability laws, will not wish to impede this new course.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank mr de backer for the work he has done in the econ committee. this is a very good report, which has shown the great progress made by some states and the difficulties encountered by others in complying with the recommendations that had been issued. just look at the percentages. 10% of the recommendations were accepted by the states, while 45% of these recommendations made little or no progress. this shows that the issue of sanctions, probably against those states which do not accept the recommendations, is a matter which must be addressed, because behind these recommendations there is the need to balance the scales and to combine development with growth and above all with the reduction of the deficit. it is no coincidence that the member states which have not complied with the recommendations are those which have the most consolidated structural deficits. it is not by chance that italy is unfortunately one of these countries. president barroso has recently asked the italian government to reduce the structural deficit by another half a point. we hope that the italian government will choose to do so, because behind a structural deficit there is a difficulty and an impossibility of growth and development.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think there is a bit of confusion in this text: the commission's own view is that the policies adopted so far have been unsuccessful, with negative effects on economic growth and a devastating social impact. i would therefore have expected a series of criticisms and the proposal for substantial changes to european economic policies; the european council in brussels in december last year, in the context of the european monetary system, was a very important step forward. i think that my colleagues may not have seen, or pretend not to see, what is happening now throughout europe, with the absurd measures imposed on citizens who are already in distress. i don't want this to happen again! all european economic and fiscal policies must be completely reviewed! the stability and growth pact is gone, where is the growth? get rid of the six-pack, the two-pack, the fiscal compact before it's too late! let us discuss everything on the basis of greater sharing and solidarity, otherwise the economic and social disintegration of europe will be inevitable.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am pleased to see here today the future commissioner katainen, who says that stability is the only way to achieve growth. i want to ask him in these five years of stability policies, where is the growth? the evidence is against it! germany is also now having a decline and let's see the data, the markets what's coming out. and so i ask myself, how can we even support the fiscal compact from next year, how can countries like france, italy make policies in these terms? that is, to go back into debt in this way, we are talking about tens of billions, we are talking about the destruction of welfare! we're talking about this in europe right now. i would ask all my colleagues here, if we are to do something really useful, to reconsider the six-pack, the two-pack and above all to call the heads of state to review this folly of the fiscal compact, because you realise what we are doing with this policy of austerity supported by only one state, which is germany.
in writing. - i have supported this report authorizing the mobilisation of the egf, the european globalisation adjustment fund, in favour of 142 spanish companies in the metal industry. the egf is the european instrument that, more than any other at the moment, can help workers in firms affected by the crisis by treating the symptoms but not the causes of their illness. i will therefore certainly continue to support his work, but i will also fight for europe to address the real causes of this unprecedented economic and financial crisis: i am referring to the wrong currency, the fixed and unalterable budgetary parameters imposed by the european treaties and a worldview that helps immigrants and not european citizens.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the adjustment fund to protect 142 companies in the metal industry. we must defend work, not finance!
in writing. - i voted for this report today to support the reintegration into the labour market of 633 workers in the metal products industry in spain, as a result of the economic and financial crisis. the metal products sector is crucial for a wide range of manufacturing industries such as shipbuilding, construction and the automotive sector. in the european union, the economic crisis has hit all these sectors hard. in the period 2000-2007, i.e. before the economic and financial crisis, the index of industrial production in the eu grew at an average annual rate of approximately 1,7%. subsequently, between april 2008 and april 2009, industrial production in the eu decreased by more than 22%. in particular, in spain, between april 2008 and april 2009, industrial production decreased by almost 27% (i.e. five points more than the eu level) and has not recovered since then, declining relatively steadily.
in writing. - unfortunately, the metal industry has been affected not only by the structural change in world trade but also because the spanish economy itself has suffered heavily as a result of the crisis. the five star movement supports any request for mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund which is fully justified and which provides relief to those people who are not to blame but have the misfortune of working in industrial sectors which are subject to ruthless competition from countries which do not have the same legal sense as regards workers' rights. that is why we want to safeguard, as far as possible, the fate of those who are struggling hard to keep their jobs and feed their families.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the request, the tenth in the framework of the 2014 budget, for the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for a total amount of eur 1 019 184 for spain. the egf was established to provide additional support for workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade. the request was made by the spanish authorities following redundancies and closures in 142 enterprises active in the manufacture of metal products, excluding machinery and equipment, in the nuts 2 region of the comunidad valenciana.
in writing. - spain is among the member states most severely affected by the financial and economic crisis, with the consequent decline in industrial production having obvious consequences for employment, particularly in the manufacture of metal products, raising the unemployment rate. i therefore supported this report because i believe that it is in the common interest of all member states for the egf to support the valencian community in the production of metals and metal products, which is important for a wide range of manufacturing activities such as shipbuilding, construction and the automotive industry, all of which have been severely affected by the economic crisis in the eu.
in writing. - favours the mobilisation of the egf in respect of spain, where several steel companies in the comunidad valenciana are in crisis; in total, 142 enterprises and over 600 workers are involved, for an amount of approximately one million euro. the redundancies of workers in the metal products industry in spain are linked to the global economic and financial crisis; spain is one of the member states most affected by the crisis, which has led to a decrease in demand and therefore in production of metals and metal products. in spain, the manufacture of metal products decreased by 23,3% in 2009 compared to the previous year, and by 36,6% between 2008 and 2013. notes that the sector's turnover decreased by 38,5% in the period 2008-2012 and that the number of jobs lost corresponds to 43% of total employment in the metallurgical sector. the objective of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) is to facilitate the rapid reintegration of these redundant workers into working life by means of personalised support measures, such as assistance in finding a job, vocational guidance, training and retraining, promotion of self-employment and entrepreneurship.
in writing. - i vote in favour of this measure to compensate for the redundancies of the employees of 142 spanish metalworking companies, amounting to just over one million euros.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of mr šulin's report because i consider the decision to mobilise the egf for spain to be an unquestionable opportunity for the reintegration of redundant workers in 142 metal manufacturing companies into the labour market. in the context of the economic crisis we are currently experiencing, we have repeatedly stressed the importance and effectiveness of an instrument such as the egf. by using the most appropriate criteria for destination, europe is once again demonstrating its solidarity mission and its concreteness in helping those who suffer most from the effects of a devastating economic crisis.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, concerning the submission by spain of an application for a financial contribution from the egf following the 600 redundancies in 142 enterprises in the metal products manufacturing sector in that country. i believe it is essential and of primary importance that measures be taken to help redundant workers in the following areas: employment, training and job protection.
in writing. - i believe that the principle of solidarity between the member states of the european union should be an essential reference point for the work of the community institutions. it is on this basis that i have decided to give my consent to the report by mrs šulin, which supports the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund in favour of a large number of spanish workers who are unemployed in metal manufacturing companies. spain is one of the countries most affected by the economic crisis of recent years, and we have a duty to help each of our member states in times of greatest difficulty. yes, to promote the harmonious reintegration into the labour market of 633 redundant workers from 142 different spanish metalworking companies. yes, because if we are to continue to be regarded as an institutional reference point by our citizens, we have a moral duty to ensure that their fundamental rights, including the right to work, are guaranteed. yes, and to show how much the european parliament cares about the dignity of every worker in the community, regardless of the nationality and the political colour of its members.
in writing. - the spanish authorities submitted application egf/2014/004 es/comunidad valenciana metal for a financial contribution from the egf following redundancies and closures in 142 enterprises active in the manufacture of metal products in the comunidad valenciana. as the contribution is intended to provide additional support for the 633 redundant workers and to facilitate their reintegration into the labour market, i voted in favour.
in writing. - whereas the proposal for a decision to mobilise the egf in favour of spain is aimed at assisting the reintegration of workers in the metallurgical sector, who are suffering as a result of structural changes in world trade; whereas industrial production in europe has declined considerably, also as a result of increased global competition; i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the discussions on the future of the community, but that it should be involved in the discussions on the future of the community.
in writing. - in this phase of the world economic and financial crisis, it is right to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund, following a request from the comunidad valenciana metal, to help a part of the workers in the metal products manufacturing sector (undertakings heavily affected by the crisis) to facilitate their reintegration into the labour market more effectively through direct actions and a package of personalised services.
in writing. - the present application, the tenth under the 2014 budget, concerns the mobilisation of the egf for a total amount of eur 1 019 184 for spain. the request concerns redundancies and closures in 142 enterprises operating in division 25 of nace revision 2 (manufacture of metal products other than machinery and equipment) in the nuts 2 region of comunidad valenciana (es52). i voted in favour to defend the work of the companies concerned and to support the growth of the region.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal because it concerns the redundancies and the closure of 142 spanish companies in the metal sector, amounting to just over one million euros.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund because it is necessary to support the reintegration of all those workers who have suffered the opening up of economies to international competition. in the most vulnerable sectors, it is essential to address the consequences of intensifying trade flows by implementing tangible and functional measures such as outplacement, assistance in active research, contributions to the recruitment of disadvantaged workers and vocational retraining. it is essential to improve the chances of all workers to seek employment through appropriate training, through the recognition of skills and competences acquired during their professional careers, while respecting the principles of non-discrimination and equal opportunities. it is therefore necessary to provide timely assistance to workers who have lost their jobs as a result of major structural changes in world trade due to globalisation (such as the closure of a company or the relocation of production to a country outside the eu), thus demonstrating in concrete terms the solidarity of the many who benefit from the opening of markets towards those facing the sudden shock of unemployment.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report authorizing the mobilisation of the egf, the european globalisation adjustment fund, in favour of 512 belgian workers and 10 companies in the motor vehicle sector. if it wants a future, this europe must move beyond the good-natured and superficial propaganda with which it has dealt with the problems of its citizens up to now. i hope that the egf, which is a very important instrument to support people who have lost their jobs, will soon be joined by new resources to finance the recovery of competitiveness and growth.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the globalisation adjustment fund. we have to defend the 512 ford genk redundancies. i'm on the side of work and the workers, not the side of finance.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report today to provide support for 512 workers who were made redundant from their jobs at ford's assembly plant in genk. the difficult economic situation of the automotive sector in the eu is mainly due to a significant decrease in sales of new passenger cars in the eu due to the economic crisis and the structural problems of overcapacity faced by some manufacturers in various member states which has negatively affected the international competitiveness of the eu automotive industry as a whole. these factors have led to plant closures and restructuring by various car manufacturers and their suppliers, which have resulted in a large number of job losses in the automotive manufacturing sector in recent years. the aim is to facilitate the rapid reintegration of these redundant workers into the labour market by means of personalised support measures, such as assistance in finding a job, vocational guidance, training and retraining, and promotion of self-employment and entrepreneurship.
in writing. - the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund is a necessary safeguard for those who have no hope of continuing to work in industrial and commercial sectors affected by the radical change in the structure of world trade, the automobile industry being a clear example. the economic landscape is changing more and more rapidly and is creating real social drama in many areas of civil, industrial and commercial life: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. we don't want people who have worked hard to be suddenly left without a protector.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the 11th application under the 2014 budget for the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for a total amount of eur 570 945 for belgium. the egf was established to provide additional support for workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade. the request from belgium concerns redundancies at the assembly plant of ford-werke gmbh, located in genk, and at ten suppliers of ford genk, for a total of 512 redundancies in eleven undertakings active in the passenger car manufacturing sector. the belgian authorities stated that the overruns were due to major structural changes in world trade flows due to globalisation which caused a significant loss of eu market share on world markets.
in writing. - i support the report on the mobilisation of the egf in relation to the application by belgium to provide financial support to ford genk because the company's car manufacturing sector has suffered serious economic disruption, in particular a sharp drop in the eu market share. in particular, due to the difficult economic situation of the automotive manufacturing sector in the eu, with a significant decrease in sales of new passenger cars, some car manufacturers and their suppliers have been forced to close plants and undergo restructuring which has resulted in a large number of job losses in the automotive manufacturing sector in recent years. i hope that today's vote will allow the reintegration of employees into the labour market and will also be a valuable help to the businesses affected by the crisis.
in writing. - i voted today in favour of the request to mobilise the egf for belgium, which has applied for financial assistance following 512 redundancies at the assembly plant of ford-werke gmbh, based in genk, and at 10 suppliers of ford genk in belgium. the excesses are linked to the significant changes in the structure of world trade due to globalisation, a rapid decline in the eu's market share in the global passenger car manufacturing sector and a significant decline in sales of new passenger cars in the union. the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf), which provides support for those who have lost their jobs as a result of major structural changes in world trade due to globalisation, is becoming essential as more and more european businesses are forced to close.
in writing. - i vote in favour of intervention for 512 redundancies at ford in genk (belgium) and for 10 of its suppliers for € 570 945.
in writing. - i support the report by mr rübig. it provides for the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant at the assembly plant of ford-werke gmbh, located in genk (ford genk), and 10 suppliers of ford genk in belgium. with today's vote we seek to ensure a system of reintegration into the labour market for employees who have been affected by the economic crisis, highlighting once again the role that europe has and must continue to play in this period of crisis: the commission has already proposed a number of measures to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states.
in writing. - i supported the report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, concerning the request made by belgium to safeguard redundant staff following the closure of one of the ford plants in the country. it should be ensured that the fund supports the permanent reintegration of redundant workers into the labour market.
in writing. - i have voted in favour of the rübig report, which supports the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund in favour of 512 unemployed belgian workers in 11 car manufacturing companies, because i believe that the granting of almost eur 600 000 to finance measures to reintegrate them into the world of work can help, albeit marginally, to alleviate the hardship that the economic crisis is inflicting on european workers. as the report points out, the reasons for the large number of redundancies at ford in genk are not only the structural changes in world trade due to globalisation but also a clear reduction in the european union's market share in the world car industry. if it is true that the main objective of the egf is precisely to provide support for european workers who have lost their jobs as a result of significant market changes, then i believe that the planned intervention in favour of the workers in the belgian car plant is entirely appropriate and necessary.
in writing. - in 2013, belgium submitted an application to mobilise the egf, in the amount of eur 570 945, in respect of 512 redundancies in 11 undertakings active in the passenger car manufacturing sector at the assembly plant of ford-werke gmbh, genk. as the financial support is for 479 redundant workers and is intended to facilitate their reintegration into the labour market, i voted in favour.
in writing. - whereas the proposal for a decision to mobilise the egf in belgium is aimed at supporting the reintegration of redundant workers in the ford-werke gmbh industrial area, which is experiencing difficulties due to structural changes in world trade; whereas the automotive sector in the european union has experienced a significant decline, due to the economic crisis and increasing global competition; i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter.
in writing. - in this phase of the world economic and financial crisis, it is right to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund to help workers made redundant by firms in sectors of production affected by the adverse economic situation. in this case, workers at the assembly plant of ford genk (belgium) and 10 suppliers of ford genk will benefit from measures co-financed by the egf for reintegration into the labour market.
in writing. - the application in question, the 11th under the 2014 budget, concerns the mobilisation of the egf for a total amount of eur 570 945 for belgium. the application concerns redundancies at the assembly plant of ford-werke gmbh, located in genk (ford genk), and at 10 suppliers of ford genk, in belgium. i voted in favour to defend the work of the companies concerned and to support the growth of the region.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal because it is an economic measure, worth some six hundred thousand euros, following 512 redundancies at ford in genk and the closure of ten of its suppliers.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report authorizing the mobilisation of the egf, the european globalisation adjustment fund, in favour of 939 belgian workers and 10 steel companies. in a business-as-usual environment like the one we live in, any form of help, any opportunity is a strategic asset of great importance that cannot be ignored or, worse, neglected. in this context, the european globalisation adjustment fund must be considered one of the most useful instruments provided for by the eu, which makes it possible to give a concrete hand to all those workers who have lost their jobs as a result of the economic crisis.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the globalisation adjustment fund. i am on the side of the 939 redundant workers at carsid, brought in by the italian duferco group.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report today in order to support the reintegration into the labour market of 752 steel workers who were made redundant at the carsid production plant in marcinelle, near charleroi in belgium, as a result of the major changes in the structure of world trade due to globalisation. the contraction in demand for steel in the eu automotive and construction sectors as a consequence of the economic crisis and a related increase in production costs (raw materials, energy, environmental constraints, etc.) have harmed the competitiveness of the eu steel industry and caused the loss of a large number of steel jobs in recent years due to plant closures and restructuring by various steel producers in europe. for example, between 2008 and 2013, the number of employees in the eu metallurgical industry decreased by around 280 000 units, from 1,44 to 1,16 million (-19,4%). the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf), which provides support for those who have lost their jobs as a result of major structural changes in world trade due to globalisation, is becoming essential as more and more european businesses are forced to close.
in writing. - the rights of many workers are being crushed by a situation of global crisis in which the substantial difference between different economies is leading to the impoverishment and crisis of entire commercial and industrial sectors, the steel sector in europe being one of the victims of this crisis. the generation which grew up after the second world war fought for greater guarantees at the workplace, but these guarantees are now devoid of any substantive content and the destinies of many people are crushed by a sudden and abrupt historical change in global dynamics.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the twelfth application under the 2014 budget for the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for a total amount of eur 911 934 for belgium. the egf was established to provide additional support for workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade. the application was made following 939 redundancies linked to the closure of the carsid sa production plant at marcinelle, near charleroi. the excesses are due to major changes in the structure of world trade due to globalisation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr sarvamaa's request for the mobilisation of the egf for a total amount of eur 911.934 for belgium. i agree with the allocation of these funds to remedy the issue of redundancies linked to the closure of the carsid sa production plant at marcinelle, near charleroi. the union shall provide instruments to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade and to facilitate their reintegration into the labour market. it is essential, especially at difficult times such as the present, when europe is facing, among other issues, a serious employment crisis, that any contribution and support in this area be dynamic and be made available in a rapid and efficient manner; it must be able to pursue a policy of solidarity with all european citizens. they are fighting the crisis with courage, and this calls for an ever-increasing commitment on the part of the institutions in the face of new difficulties.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report today to provide additional support for workers at the carsid sa production plant. in 2013 they lost their jobs due to the significant changes in the structure of world trade due to globalisation and the rapid decline in the union market share in the global continuous casting crude steel production sector as well as a significant decrease in the union crude steel production due to a decrease in the demand for steel in the automotive and construction sectors. 752 people are expected to benefit from the measures of the european globalisation adjustment fund.
in writing. - i voted in favour of intervention for 939 excesses at carsid (producers of steel sheet) in charleroi for eur 911.934.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of the report by mr petri sarvamaa which provides for support for certain belgian companies active in the production of crude steel. in particular, the report provides for the allocation of resources necessary for the reintegration into the labour market of redundancies at the carsid sa ('carsid') production plant in marcinelle. this report is in addition to three others adopted today, all of which have the same objective: support workers in difficulty due to the crisis.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the european globalisation adjustment fund for the reintegration of 939 employees made redundant following the closure of the carsid production plant in belgium. the egf should be seen as a fundamental eu instrument for all workers who have lost their jobs as a result of the economic and financial crisis.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr sarvamaa's report to express once again my closeness and support for workers who are suffering the consequences of major changes in the structure of world trade. in the light of the 939 redundancies at the carsid sa production plant, i believe it is essential to reintegrate these workers by giving them the opportunity to develop new skills and re-enter the labour market.
in writing. - belgium submitted application egf/2013/02 be/carsid for a financial contribution from the egf of eur 911 934 following 939 redundancies related to the closure of the production plant of carsid sa in marcinelle. as the financial support is for 752 redundant workers and is intended to facilitate their reintegration into the labour market, i voted in favour.
in writing. - whereas the proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of belgium is aimed at supporting the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant by the carsid sa production plant as a result of structural changes in international trade; whereas the contraction in demand for steel in the eu automotive and construction sectors has had a negative impact on the competitiveness of the european steel industries; i voted in favour of the proposal, agreeing that the loss of a large number of jobs in the steel industry could have a significant impact on the unemployment rate in the local economy.
in writing. - the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) is designed to provide additional support for workers in firms suffering from the adverse economic climate and major structural changes in world trade. for this reason, the action in favour of workers who have been made redundant by carsid sa (steel companies have particularly suffered from a fall in demand for steel in recent years) is valid and will allow a large group of workers to better re-enter the labour market with actions aimed at retraining them.
in writing. - the present application, the twelfth under the 2014 budget, concerns the mobilisation of the egf for a total amount of eur 911.934 for belgium. the claim relates to redundancies linked to the closure of the production plant of carsid sa ('carsid') located in marcinelle, near charleroi. i voted in favour to defend the work of the companies concerned and to support the growth of the region.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal because it is an economic measure, amounting to eur 911, following 939 redundancies made by carsid in charleroi.
in writing. - i supported this report authorizing the mobilisation of the egf, the european globalisation adjustment fund, for 6 000 french workers in the metalworking sector. the hope is that the european union will soon adopt a more effective trade policy, finally devoted to protecting our labour market. in the face of a radical change in community policies, the best instrument, the only one, on which we can rely is the european globalisation adjustment fund.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the globalisation adjustment fund. i am on the side of the 6,000 workers who have been laid off by peugeot citroën.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report today in order to support the reintegration into the labour market of 2 357 workers in the motor vehicle manufacturing sector who were made redundant by the peugeot citroën automobiles (psa) plant. the commission notes that the union industry's sales volume increased by more than 50% between 2013 and the rip, and that the union industry's sales volume increased by more than 50% between 2013 and the rip. on the demand side, the eu has now become a very slow-growing market. consumers avoid purchases when they are in economic difficulties. the objective of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) is to facilitate the rapid reintegration of these redundant workers into working life by means of personalised support measures, such as assistance in finding a job, vocational guidance, training and retraining, promotion of self-employment and entrepreneurship.
in writing. - the changes in the structure of world trade are unfortunately unstoppable, but because of the speed of the phenomenon, many workers and entrepreneurs are deprived of their livelihoods through no fault of their own, in the automobile sector this is a harsh reality that cannot be denied. many have found themselves in an unfavorable economic situation, making it impossible for them to provide for themselves and their families. the european globalisation adjustment fund is the right instrument to limit the consequences of an economic change which has affected and still affects many areas of our lives.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the thirteenth application under the 2014 budget for the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for a total amount of eur 12 704 605 for france. the egf was established to provide additional support for workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade. the request in question, submitted by the french authorities, concerns 6120 workers made redundant by psa. the company operates in the economic sector of 'manufacture of motor vehicles, trailers and semi-trailers' and the redundancies were mainly in the aulnay and rennes plants.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for a european parliament and council decision on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for citroën. the fund is established to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major changes in the structure of world trade, with a view to supporting the reintegration of redundant workers into the labour market. i am therefore in favour of the case of peugeot citroën automobiles, namely to grant france a total amount of eur 12 704 605 to protect 6 120 workers made redundant by psa, mainly the plant in aulnay, which was decided to close, located in the nuts 24 region of île de france (fr10) and the plant in rennes (redundant employment of a significant number of workers) in the region of brittany (fr52).
in writing. - the egf, which provides support for those who have lost their jobs as a result of major structural changes in world trade due to globalisation, is becoming essential as more and more european businesses are forced to close. given the problem of unemployment in the île-de-france and brittany regions, i can only vote in favour of egf assistance in relation to the redundancy of 6120 workers employed by peugeot citroën automobiles in the nace classified sector. the redundancies mainly concern the regions of île-de-france and brittany, with 2,357 workers benefiting from measures co-financed by the egf, in the reference period from 1 october 2013 to 31 january 2014.
in writing. - i vote in favour of the intervention requested by the french authorities to deal with the approximately 6000 redundancies of the peugeot citroën group - the measures will affect more than 2000 workers.
in writing. - i shall vote in favour of the report by mrs isabelle thomas. as in the other cases put to the vote today, it is a question of allocating resources to ensure the reintegration of certain dismissed workers into the labour market. in the present case, the workers at peugeot citroën automobiles, which manufactures cars, trailers and semi-trailers, lost their jobs in france as a result of the world economic and financial crisis. in this respect, our vote on the activation of the european globalisation adjustment fund can make a positive and concrete contribution.
in writing. - i supported the report by the egf on the request by france for financial assistance in connection with the dismissal of 6120 workers at peugeot citroën. the fund is established to support the reintegration into the labour market of redundant employees affected by the consequences of structural changes in the company, with the aim of improving the employment prospects of all workers through appropriate training. i am therefore strongly in favour of granting france the sum of eur 12 704 605 to protect and guarantee 6000 workers made redundant by psa.
in writing. - i believe that the european globalisation adjustment fund is a necessary and supplementary support for workers who are suffering from the consequences of major changes in the structure of world trade. as the third demand relates to the french automobile industry, which is worth over 10 million euros, i would stress the importance of anticipating adjustments in good time and identifying skills accurately, so as to create opportunities for retraining and exploiting the skills of workers in other sectors. on this basis i have decided to give my consent to the report signed by mrs thomas, which also recalls the importance of improving the employment prospects of all workers through appropriate training and the recognition of skills and competences acquired during the worker's professional career. i welcome the fact that the number of participants who are expected to benefit from the grants for business creation is high.
in writing. - france submitted an application egf/2014/006 fr/psa for a financial contribution from the egf of a total amount of eur 12 704 605. the commission has decided to initiate proceedings under article 93 (2) of the eec treaty in respect of a number of aid measures granted to the steel industry in the united kingdom. as the contribution is intended to provide additional support for the 2 357 redundant workers and to facilitate their reintegration into the labour market, i voted in favour.
in writing. - whereas the commission has approved a proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of france to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant by peugeot citroën automobiles; whereas, despite the slow growth of the eu market on the demand side, manufacturers are struggling to maintain their market share, which is increasingly being intercepted by third countries; i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud in the community.
in writing. - the targeted support provided by the european globalisation adjustment fund to workers who, despite themselves, are suffering from the crisis and the structural changes in world trade, enables them to benefit from personalised services with a package of measures to help them to re-qualify themselves in the labour market. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation of the unemployed in the community.
in writing. - the present application, the 13th under the 2014 budget, concerns the mobilisation of the egf for a total amount of eur 12 704 605 for france. the claim concerns 6,120 workers made redundant by psa. this company operates in the economic sector classified under nace rev. 2 division 29 (manufacture of motor vehicles, trailers and semi-trailers). the redundancy concerns mainly the aulnay plant (which is to be closed) in the nuts 24 region île de france (fr10) and the rennes plant (redundancy of a significant number of workers) in the brittany region (fr52). i voted in favour to defend the work of the companies concerned and to support the growth of the region.
in writing. - i decided to vote in favour of the proposal because it is a major intervention requested by the french authorities to deal with the approximately 6000 redundancies of the peugeot citroen group. the measures will affect more than 2000 workers who will, among other things, be accompanied by training courses aimed at relocation. the total amount made available for this mobilisation of the egf is eur 12 704 605.
i am sure you will appreciate the frankness with which i address you today. i will not be a formal intervention, not worthy of your intelligence, nor the correctness and seriousness that you have always shown. i will tell you frankly that the report my group is drawing up on your commission is a critical report. in this very chamber, ten years ago, you rightly urged us - and i quote your words - not to let our guard down in the face of the apathy and scepticism that are affecting european democracy. we share together - he said - the awareness of the populist threats, we must not give them new arguments. ten years later, our continent is sinking into unemployment and i am sorry that you did not mention this word, which indicates the worst plague we are experiencing today, the lack of work, and deflation is eroding hope in the european dream and the anti-european movements have never been so strong as today. of course, i'm well aware that there are internal and external causal factors that are irrelevant to your choice. i know that, but we must be honest in admitting that there have also been serious mistakes in economic policy. the original sin is called austerity, in the name of an ideological vision, investment has been reduced, production costs have been cut, thus preventing member states from betting on their future, from completing the necessary transition to the knowledge society, and now we are in a bad way. let's face it! the case of greece is a paradigmatic one, a country too often forgotten, but which is the mirror of european discomfort. greece, suddenly in 2010 you realized that the greek accounts were not reliable. no one wants to deny the country's responsibilities, but attempts have been made to force the greeks to settle their accounts and they have not succeeded, but instead greek society has been torn apart. and also on the stability pact: the european union has always insisted on stability and never on growth, whereas this is a pact of stability and growth. the two pillars must be held together. i agree with mr weber that we must not abandon budgetary discipline but at the same time increase growth and create new jobs, whereas in recent years we have focused on the first pillar. i do not mean to underestimate the important things that your commission has done: i am thinking, for example, of the fight against climate change, financial regulation, trade policy, the launching of an industrial policy, the tightening of competition policy, competition policy and the boost to the european internal market. i would like to renew to you, mr president barroso, and to all your commissioners, our esteem and recognition of the personal commitment you and your fellow commissioners have made. unfortunately, this has not been enough. we need a change of pace to save europe before it is too late.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr barroso, i have heard what you have said, and i do not wish to speak as a member of the european parliament, but as a mayor. i have a son who is about ten years old; ten years ago i could have told him that europe was the future, that europe could fight unemployment, that europe could fight tax increases, that it was against illegal immigrants, that it was for work. what's it come up with? i want to make a statement to you, since this is your last day as president of the commission: unemployment has increased, taxes have increased, expenditure has increased, the poor have increased, there is no work! illegal immigrants are everywhere! disease has increased! europe is becoming less and less important in the world! the euro is a currency which, instead of bringing prosperity, is bringing poverty. is that the result of your commission? what do i tell my son? that europe has been a good thing for the last ten years or should i tell him the truth? that is, europe has been a disaster! this is what is happening and as mayor, and meeting people, more and more, without work, without money, not even money to live, to give something to their children, what should i say to them as mayor? that europe is helping us? i live in a country, italy, that is governed by a government that is in some ways also a government of invertebrates. i just have one thing to say to thank you, about a story: the story of the maroons, this one, where there are two italian soldiers held hostage in india: you defended them by saying they shouldn 't have the death penalty; i thank you, but if it were two soldiers from kiev, would they still be in india at this hour? or would they have already been brought to europe? i ask you to defend europe, which must defend our soldiers, because if the italian government is not able to do so, europe must do so. these are two heroes! one is now home for serious health reasons, but the other has been held hostage by the indians for three years. let us not be fooled, because europe must show its balls, otherwise the world will crush us.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, only the blind cannot see that the world is facing epochal changes and that all the certainties of the past are collapsing like bricks, one after the other. we have just entered a perfect storm, which includes a climate, energy and economic crisis at the same time, which no country, not even the one with the largest army in the world, has been able to counter effectively and above all in a lasting way, because these three crises are absolutely new in their magnitude and in their interconnectedness on a planet that we have tried to globalize. even when economic parameters in europe appeared to be formally improving with austerity, the effects on the real economy and the well-being of the populations were deleterious. people die because they don't have health care, they lose their jobs, they commit suicide. people die from floods or from lack of food. it is the very political and social fabric of europe that is disintegrating before our eyes and with it the original idea of the european community, which is becoming more and more hostile to the people. who are the anti-europeans? who has been responsible for this so far or who is suffering the effects? we need new tools and forward-looking policies that do more than just square the budget on an excel sheet. we cannot tackle new and gigantic problems with the same mindsets, the same calculations, the same tools as a century that is 14 years behind us. if there is one thing that is certain, it is that this will not be the century of business as usual that the european community is taking for granted. we are calling for a renegotiation of the treaties, starting with the fiscal compact, for a review of monetary and budgetary policies, for a review of the union's decisionmaking structure itself, giving more room to directly elected institutions such as this parliament. in short, a new course for europe, supported in the transition phase by an income of european citizenship, where the priority is the transition towards the regularisation of productive activities and the transition towards complete independence from fossil fuels.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the under-secretary for the council, mr benedetto della vedova, spoke of growth, jobs and competitiveness. commissioner katainen says that we have been realistic because we have combined climate and energy. i think that's the synthesis we have to find, our realism. the competitiveness elements must be key elements: we are slowly emerging from the crisis, too slowly, and that is why we must promote growth, development, job creation, above all, in all our policies. i would like to remind you of the objective of the communication for a european industrial renaissance. the objective is 20% reindustrialization by 2020 and this is a target that we must always keep in mind when we talk about all our agendas. you said that in paris you were optimistic that there was a possibility of an agreement. i've been following the coopers since copenhagen and i'm not that optimistic, but today i want to make an effort, i want to be as optimistic as you are. but we're going to paris with commitments already made unilaterally? we'll go to paris, we've already made some commitments! so, i say, all right we want to push, we want to put these commitments on the table to get the rest of the world to come together, to sign this agreement. are we sure we're gonna get it? i want to be optimistic. we know that it is much easier when we talk about renewable energy, technology, research and innovation, bilateral and multilateral agreements, but when we talk about the global agreement everything is much more difficult. so i want to end here by asking you to maintain the current system of guarantees for the sectors most exposed to the risk of carbon leakage because we are asking them to make a further effort, to maintain it or to strengthen it and to close with the words of barroso. we maintain leadership but we don't isolate ourselves, because that's the risk we sometimes take. i want to be optimistic, but let's keep the lead without isolating ourselves!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, new growth, energy security, climate, these are the subjects to be discussed at the next european council. i hope they're treated together, because each one depends on the other two. this interdependence is barely mentioned in the juncker plan, there is a mention of the green economy but it is not enough. to get europe's economies back on track after years of destructive austerity, we need a real new deal. i am thinking of the new deal for europe, a citizens' initiative which should be made by the union itself, even if the required one million signatures may be missing. it is the horizon that allows us to hold together dangerously disparate objectives, climate protection, employment, investment in alternative energy and secure supplies. the plan depends on national contributions to the structural funds and the eib. the most indebted countries will therefore not be able to contribute. the new deal, by proposing genuine own resources for the union, a tax on financial transactions and a carbon tax, can give growth an ecological dimension and tax financial income, not increasingly precarious work. unfortunately, instead of taxing financial income, the ecofin council decided to postpone the implementation of the directive on combating large-scale tax evasion.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in order to have a viable economic development policy we must face the problem of integrating the various factors we have heard about today. however, i would like to make one comment, because we often feel obliged to make climate objectives binding. but it seems that no one has the courage to make the objectives of reindustrialising our continent and our countries binding. the council must therefore adopt the strong question i am asking, but it must also become the climate in which this house is reasoning. but who do we think can give europeans hope? who do we think can give hope and jobs to our fellow citizens? we have to ask ourselves what kind of economic development model we think will give a real signal of confidence to all those who have historically assumed the responsibility of providing jobs, employment, and generating value. i believe that when we set ourselves the goal that by 2020 we will generate a gdp that at least 20% of our continent and our countries' great manufacturing tradition will be present, well, at that moment we set ourselves a binding goal. if we fail to meet that, we have failed and all other objectives will follow. i do not believe that economic development is possible if the educational value of enterprise culture is neglected. the culture of the company is what someone else said before me, wondering what he will tell his children. i have three children, and i tell my children that without entrepreneurship, there is no future. to take a risk is to give everyone a chance of hope. all energy and climate objectives must be subordinated to this general objective!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, such objectively negative and worrying macroeconomic data should discourage the self-consolatory attitude which i have just heard the commission express. i hope that these are the words of the barroso commission and not those of the juncker commission. we must make a breakthrough, because the situation is very serious and worrying. a new policy mix that works on supply and demand and doesn't leave the ecb alone. and that's why investment, today's demand and tomorrow's supply, is particularly crucial. we expect the european council to help the commission to draw up an ambitious investment plan. of course, private investment must be mobilised, but to do so we need public resources to be leveraged. it is said: there are no resources, there are procedural problems. i do not think so. the resources are there, the procedural problems can be overcome, what is needed is political will. we hope that this political will will emerge at the next european council.
mr vice-president, thank you and good luck in your job, which is not an easy one.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it is absolutely necessary to address the unresolved issues with the 2014 budget before we start thinking about 2015. we cannot discuss commitments and figures to be spent unless we first settle at least part of the debts we still have to pay. of course, i understand the italian presidency, which is also bringing the renzi model here to europe, that is, slogans with a certain impact and beautiful words for the future. but the present and the past - i am addressing the council - how do we deal with it? we had a meeting in brussels last month on the catastrophic situation of payments in the european union. with commissioner dominik spouting alarming figures and figures, with a hole of over 20 billion euros to be filled. after all this, you, mr zanetti, had merely read a legal document that had already been written and was completely devoid of any content or concrete action. so i ask you, do you have any solutions now at least for these amending budgets and to eliminate the problem of payments at the root? we have put forward our proposals for the 2015 budget, but first we want guarantees that we can close 2014 without any gaps.
the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in recent years we have fought hard as a parliament to ensure that the european budget has the funds necessary to ensure the proper implementation of all policies. we have done so responsibly, and we will do so again tomorrow with the vote on our position on the 2015 budget. as chairman of the committee on the environment, i would like to stress the importance of implementing the new multiannual programmes which fall within our responsibility: the third programme of union action in the field of health; the environment and climate action programme; the union civil protection mechanism. we believe it is essential to provide the necessary appropriations as proposed by the commission in its draft budget so that these new programmes can realise their full potential. and i think i've found the right balance between commitment and payment appropriations. i also recall the importance of horizon 2020 for research projects in the fields of climate, health and the environment, as well as the resources for the common agricultural policy - which is already being damaged by the agreements and restrictions from neighbouring russia - can only enjoy full budget support. i would like to conclude with a wish that the payments will be made as they should be.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as chairman of the committee on culture and rapporteur for the budget, i thank the rapporteur for sharing our view on the council's serious cut - which i consider to be unacceptable and contradictory - of more than 3.3% in heading 3, which is the one which provides for some very popular programmes such as creative europe, which supports culture, creativity and the audiovisual industry, but also the europe for citizens already cut by 20% in seven years, and the marie curie fellowships, which are an important response to young researchers. but above all - and i say this in support of other colleagues - the payments for 2014 which have not yet been honoured by the council are at risk and are seriously jeopardising the erasmus programme. it is not possible for everyone, including governments, to talk about erasmus during the election campaign and then cut back and not honour the commitments made to young people who are in danger of being left without grants. we note this as one of the preconditions for moving forward in the development of programmes. we know that there is a lack of resources of over 200 million euro for erasmus, but also for other programmes, which have already been financed from the point of view of the member states, putting the member states in a very difficult position because this will be considered a negative performance of the erasmus programme.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am 29 years old and for the first time this year i have been able to contribute to this work on the budget of the european union and i feel i should make a few points, give a few suggestions to my colleagues and to those who are here to listen to me. first of all, i would like to go into the details of the programmes and see how the european funds and the programmes we are going to allocate are performing, because it is not certain that a fund with a good name will have an efficient performance afterwards, so we are monitoring the union's expenditure closely. then we proposed and reluctantly rejected, numerous cuts in what is wasteful and unproductive public spending. could we perhaps use taxpayers' money better and i mean, is it really necessary to have 28 million a year for parties and 14 million a year for political foundations? is €12 million really necessary for propaganda about the euro and europe? is the pre-accession funds worth hundreds of millions when juncker has announced that there will be no new entrants during his term of office? can we find a way to get the resources to the taxpaying citizens of europe, or do you want to continue to mismanage these tens of billions of sacrifices? sacrifices of the workers, workers who every day open the shop windows and pay contributions to make society progress.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there is an italian expression which i believe mr zanetti is familiar with, which is 'to throw one's heart over the barrier'. it is an expression that means putting passion and courage into achieving the goals that you have and that you give yourself. the objective in this case, which is a shared objective - i believe in this house - is to return to growth. we have all agreed for some time now that after ten years of so-called austerity we finally have a europe which is once again aiming at growth and investing in research, development, the environment, training and employment. he's going to invest in europe. it's about investing in your future. there are many tools to achieve this. the juncker plan, which we are eagerly awaiting. our rapporteur said so: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the budget can also be one of the instruments, the commission believes that, and so does this parliament. the question is whether the council believes it. if the council also believes that the budget can be an instrument for achieving a new situation, a new condition and the conditions for taking a new direction are all there. there is a new parliament, there is a new commission about to take office, there is a guide to the european semester which is a vital guide. the theme is and so the question i ask is if this guide is to put the passion and the courage in us, because growth, if a goal is shared, it is because also through the budget tool we can achieve this goal in which we all believe.
i am sorry, but the question can be put to members or speakers, not to the commission or the council. that's according to the rules.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the council has certainly taken the wrong approach to the budget, proposing linear cuts without going into the specifics of the individual budget lines. but parliament - in my view - has made the same mistake, by re-establishing the lines in blocks, going even further in some cases. we must therefore avoid ending up in a draining and counterproductive iron fist for everyone. i've only just arrived, but two things seem pretty clear to me: we're short on resources and there's a problem with back payments. we must therefore reduce wherever possible the waste of the european institutions, including parliament. tomorrow we'll see who among us will vote to reduce these unnecessary expenses. i think it may be a small sign, but one that the european citizens would certainly appreciate. in order to limit the problem of payments in the future, however, i think there is only one solution at the moment: reduce your commitments. and we can start with the pre-accession funds for turkey, which will certainly not be joining the european union any time soon, or we can stop funding for nuclear power or cancel funding for political foundations. there are several options available, it just takes the political will to do it.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i can only reinforce what has already been said by my social democratic colleagues, and i thank the rapporteur, mrs eider. we now expect the council to do its part to continue to support the european union, because that is what it is all about. i would like to make a few comments on two points which i have brought to the attention of the committee on budgets through amendments. the first is to support strongly the fight against organised crime and to support strongly a genuine common policy on asylum and reception and on the management of immigration. in short, mr president, i believe that we will have to confront the serious problems facing the member states and the citizens of europe. the second point which is close to my heart and which i believe is of great relevance is to cut, clearly and sharply, unnecessary expenditure, unproductive expenditure, i would say waste, mr president. starting with us, starting with our work. i believe that the time has come, ladies and gentlemen, to choose a single seat, a single seat where we can meet, avoiding these very expensive trips, and hoping that in the not too distant future we will no longer be denied the right to organise our work, by reducing costs considerably and thinking carefully about the sacrifices that are required of european citizens.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i have been a member of the european parliament for only a few months and i must say that i cannot help feeling perplexed about the procedures and the very perception that not always constructive discussions contribute to the budget of the european union. the eu budget - the most important political document - continues to be perceived by the member states as a burden, as an additional burden on national budgets, rather than as it should be, as an opportunity to boost investment initiatives that add value for europe. it would have been desirable, at a time of major crisis such as the one we are experiencing, to have discussed a slightly more ambitious draft budget for europe, which would have provided for example the strengthening of the programmes which are at the heart of the europe 2020 strategy aimed at promoting growth, competitiveness and employment, such as horizon 2020, cosmos, erasmus place, etc. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. a final comment on agriculture: the agricultural sector is already paying the price of a deep crisis and needs to be strongly supported.
in writing. the european parliament's approval of the budget lays the foundations for the corrective budget proposed by the commission to be reinstated. this will result in tough negotiations with the council which otherwise proposes drastic cuts on topics of priority for us, on the following headings: competitiveness for growth and jobs, social and territorial cohesion, sustainable growth and natural resources, security and citizenship. i hope that the progress made by parliament in terms of allocation of expenditure and priorities will be matched by a step backwards by the council so that it becomes a real compromise. i would like to stress that in addition to the items just listed, we have the opportunity to deal more specifically with long-term savings by addressing the question of the need to create a road map for the creation of a single seat for the european parliament, to support the sugar industry which is at risk of being hit by the abolition of quotas, and finally animal welfare by supporting amendment no 12 which prevents cap appropriations from being used to finance bullfights.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, a few years ago jacques delors criticised the fact that europe is wearing a mask. the human rights state in hungary is symptomatic of the blindness and hypocrisy in which the citizens of the european union find themselves: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the hungarian government has repeatedly flouted the recommendations on freedom of the press and the independence of the judiciary and it is not the only one given that in terms of freedom of the press, it is followed by italy, where unfortunately the level of free information is to say the least embarrassing, being run by a couple of freemasons who do as they please and decide who is good and who is bad. but that doesn't seem to interest anyone. as an italian and a european, i am concerned about the way in which we support the attitude towards the orbán government, which over the years has caused restrictions on political and civil liberties, seriously affecting the respect for human rights in the territory of the union. what does the european union intend to do? we make recommendations and then bury our heads in the sand like ostriches? he was appointed commissioner for culture and education, which are fundamental challenges for the future of europe. navracsi is a highly controversial figure who, in addition to denying common european values, has authored laws considered to be liberticidal. today, to try to take off the mask that mr delors spoke of in front of the hungarian people would be a courageous gesture at last, and a warning to other countries. so let's do it, let's learn to have zero tolerance for those who do not guarantee the exercise of fundamental freedoms! (the president agreed to reply to a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a blue-card question. i will reply to mr voigt first by saying: i believe, of course, that respect for human rights and for the warning given by us parliamentarians must be the concern of all 28 countries of the european union, so i am not interested whether it concerns the bundestag or france or any other parliament. the important thing is that we monitor that human rights, as enshrined in the european convention on human rights, are respected in all countries. as regards the first question raised by the honourable member, the commission report may well show that there has been an improvement in the protection and judicial system in hungary, but what emerges from reports by many non-governmental organisations, the most important of which are the ngos, is that many fundamental freedoms, including freedom of the press, are still being violated.
member of the commission. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for the richness of the debate today. as has been pointed out by many speakers, we live in a state governed by the rule of law, in a community governed by the rule of law. article 7 and article 2 were also recalled. we have some leads here that we're going to have to keep exploring. i thank the italian presidency for its intention of putting this item on the agenda for a future debate, and i believe that this debate will also help to enrich our exchanges. you mentioned vice-president timmermans, who will of course continue to follow this matter with great interest and will make it a point to continue this discussion, knowing full well that the rule of law is a very broad concept in which the safeguarding of fundamental rights is essential, no matter in which country we are.
president of the council. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i too have followed the debate with great attention and interest. as i said at the beginning, i am not in a position to say more on this subject: the council has not discussed or adopted a position on the situation in hungary and as president of the council i speak on behalf of all 27 member states, so i would like to repeat what i said at the beginning of the debate. as regards the initiative on a possible overall general mechanism for the rule of law, the italian presidency undertakes to follow up. after the new commission takes office we will plan further discussions in the council to take this matter forward.
in writing. every single violation of the rule of law affects the principles of the european union (art. 2 teu) and, in the case of hungarian policies of recent years, confirms a prolonged, brutal assault on the freedoms on which the union is founded. the tavares resolution adopted in this parliament in 2013 already traced a long path of violations: the amendments to the basic law (implemented in a very short time avoiding any debate with the other parties and civil society), the widespread use of organic laws (cardinali), the weakening of the system of checks and balances (constitutional court, parliament, data protection authority), the subordination of the judicial system, the electoral law and the rules that undermine media pluralism. while some of these points have recently seen some improvement, prime minister orbán's ambiguous statements on democracy, the treatment of some ngos and the proposed internet tax show the authorities' intent to transform the hungarian state into a state that is no longer completely liberal. i am concerned about the caution shown by the commission in this parliamentary debate. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the progress of the work of the european parliament and the council in the field of the fight against terrorism.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i think it was important that we had the opportunity to discuss in parliament a subject of such importance. we fully understand the geopolitical aspects which have determined, also on the basis of what the rapporteur, the commission representative, has argued, the accelerated procedure, which we share. we do not question this approach and we are also, as it were, in support of the peace process, which of course goes beyond the elements contained in the amendment to the regulation we are debating here. we have, however, raised certain demands in committee and we are proposing them again in the same terms in this house, particularly with regard to the commission. we believe that the measure should be considered as an exceptional measure, which means that in our opinion it should not exceed the 14 months that has been granted, so it can go beyond 31 december 2015. at the same time, we consider it essential that in six months, in eight months, what the commission representative has indicated to us today as a certainty be verified in depth, namely a monitoring that will enable us to understand the impact of this regulation in relation to the measure.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, mr commissioner, granting unilateral tariff preferences to ukraine is undoubtedly a clear political signal to russia. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. these preferences will cost the community budget eur 487 million, with direct consequences for the agricultural sector, especially maize and flour, where ukrainian exports account for more than 60% and where the reduction of duties will bring losses that are not easily recoverable. it is the second time since the russian embargo of 7 august that our farmers have suffered the political consequences of this association agreement. we therefore ask the commission to press for ratification of the association agreement within the 14 months provided for, with benefits also for our producers, and for controls on exports, since we do not want to find gmo flour or products which do not comply with european standards in the absence of appropriate plant health reforms.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, too often the european union has missed opportunities to make its voice and its weight heard because it has been too slow to react to emergency situations. in this context, however, the timeliness of the initiative to avoid a regulatory vacuum with regard to the removal of customs duties on imports from ukraine should be welcomed. firstly, because we believe that the interests of trade policy must be consistent with those of foreign policy and that at this stage it is necessary to send a strong signal to a people in difficulty. we hope that in the not too distant future the ukrainian people will be able to identify with the values on which our union is founded. decisions like these show that we can and must have the courage to put our common interests ahead of our own. it is clear that the problematic nature of an emergency procedure is clear and that it can indeed be a concern, but in balancing with the damage that would have occurred if there had been no extension the assessment of proceeding anyway prevailed. it is the best way in our view to offer ukrainian producers the opportunity to divert their trade to the european market, giving them the opportunity to survive and at the same time encouraging them to adapt to community standards. we also welcome the inclusion of article 2, which reaffirms the obligation to respect fundamental freedoms, the inviolability of borders and the fight against the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. it is important to emphasise that the autonomous trade measures do not constitute an indiscriminate opening of the community market to ukrainian products competing with community production, as in the agricultural and agro-industrial sectors the levels of protection remain higher than in other sectors, with quotas and minimum prices that do not distort the competitiveness of local products. in short, we hope that this extension can be seen as an act of goodwill on the part of the european union and an incentive to bring the crisis to an end as soon as possible and certainly not as a waste of time or even a habit, and we also hope that the actual trade treaty will enter into force no later than 1 january 2016.
the european parliament has been a great help to the commission in its efforts to bring about a change in the way the community works. president juncker is not the result of a compromise to the downside, but of the choice of the citizens. we shall support it by encouraging it, we of the socialist group will be the critical soul of the majority, and that is what the commission needs. we've done it in the negotiations of the last few weeks, we've done it in the auditions. if frans timmermans had not become vice-president responsible for sustainable development, this commission would be weaker. today you have said important things, you have spoken of a political contract with us, we propose a pact with the citizens because we are interested in people's lives, not abstract politics. you mentioned one of the most important products for people's lives, medicine. you had entrusted the responsibility for medicines to the commissioner for industry and the internal market. but what did medicines and health have to do with the internal market? today he announced that medicines and pharmaceutical products will once again be the responsibility of the commissioner for health. we don't want to put up political flags, but this was our fight and we're proud of your response. he also made timely and important statements on the tpp. we believe that two points will be decisive for the european pact we are signing today: the first is the investment plan, we will not accept a simple cosmetic operation. the credibility of this commission and probably the future of the european project is at stake in investments, and you are aware of that. we will support you in this challenge, you need us but we need you too! we need you not to allow the european parliament to be left out of the plan. we must challenge the most recalcitrant member states together and i propose three moves: first, we give a share of the capital of the state-saving fund to the eib by strengthening its capital; secondly, we should be smart about counting european investments, which, precisely because they are european, should not be included in national budgets. third, go against the grain, point to culture, because today growth depends on creativity. look at the nobel prize results last week, how many europeans were awarded. today we must increase funding for cultural programmes fivefold, and we can do that, so that all european citizens can win the most important nobel prize, the one for growth and civilization, and it would also be a way of removing the shadow that culture and education are secondary matters to be sacrificed in the name of political bargaining with the weaker states and countries. the second pillar of the european pact is social europe: growth is not a fetish, investment and growth must be in the service of solidarity. we are also starting from people's lives, we do not want a war of attrition between european workers, so we want the directive on the posting of workers to be revised. and then we have to take action to support women, especially working women. you have done your best, and we thank you for it, to have adequate representation of women in the commission. we didn't succeed, it's not his fault, but there's no need - weber's right - to change sex. we are taking action to support women, especially working women, by taking concrete measures. we must pass the maternity leave directive in this parliament, which has been guilty of being buried by the european council. his statism and his europeanist discourse were further embellished in his closing lines by a specific reference to foreign policy and immigration. we are pleased to see a change of pace and greater ambition in this area than we have seen under federica mogherini and with the new responsibilities given to the commissioner for immigration. and we know how necessary it will be, today, in the face of the terrible emergencies that the african continent is experiencing. commissioners, you have a titanic task before you. the socialist-democratic group will support you and urge you to be brave, not to stop, and if you stop, do not worry, because we will be the ones to push you. good luck with that.
thank you, mr president, you have appointed as commissioner for energy a man who has business with the oil industry, as well as a figure from the city who is supposed to be in charge of financial transparency and the vice-president of a government which has passed laws against freedom of the press as commissioner for culture. we're not sure whether to criticize his choices or compliment his sense of humor. in particular, the case of mr navracsics is serious, who admitted during the hearing his political responsibility for passing laws that are contrary to the fundamental values of the union. that is why the committee on culture voted against it, despite many appeals from civil society. you ignored this vote and decided to confirm your choice through a ruse. mr navracsics is still the wrong man in the wrong place, and you know that, mr president.
mr president, do you realize what kind of europe you are being given today? europe on its knees! a europe with seven and a half million unemployed young people, where thousands of businesses have been forced to close and where those left without certainty have even taken their own lives. these are the results of a disastrous austerity policy that your predecessor pursued for a decade. that should be enough to say enough is enough about these criminal policies, and yet you who made us sick also claim to cure us. but the disease is you! i am addressing you, my italian colleagues, with what courage you dare to give your trust to those who want to insist on these unsuccessful therapies! you know the situation in our country and i wonder how you can look into the eyes of citizens who have been robbed of everything: the european union has a long tradition of supporting the development of the european union. i appeal to your conscience. i know that you do not really want such a europe either, so like me, say it loud and clear: just say no, here and now!
mr. president, you built the prison we're in. for 25 years, you've been in the highest office, helping to create the economic disaster we're in, and now someone calls you a statesman. i have one minute to represent millions of european citizens who are being harmed by this european union, which is waging the wrong wars, which has the wrong currency, which does not defend the 'made in italy', which serves the interests of freemasonry, banks and finance, and we are becoming aware of this every day. it seems to me that this commission will finally bring to an end what is a wrong experiment: a scandal, a monster, a suicide. i'm not going to do that. so i wish you the same success as you have had in your 25 years in office and i wish you the same success and the same speed, because the more you and your commission work, the more the people of europe will regain their freedom, their identity, their future, their currency, their pride and the hope that they will be able to look to a future without 28 unknown people deciding for them.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to remind you that the vote on 25 may sent a clear message and that the challenges ahead of us, the european union and its member states, are indeed crucial, and you, mr president, will have the task of leading a legislature which cannot be a routine one. but i have always heard from her that she was fully aware of this, because she has right from the start given priority to the issue of growth and employment and has spoken of the social dimension of europe, and that is why we have given her our confidence from the beginning and today we are giving it back by relying on this courage, which today she has once again declared that she has and wants to have. he also made it clear that timing is not a secondary variable, which is why he said and reiterated that he would present the investment programme with vice-president katainen before christmas, and that is why we will also be with her in pushing for timing. he has spoken on many subjects, but i would like to dwell briefly on immigration. as an italian and as italians, you can imagine how much we share your desire to put immigration as a key issue and a priority. tragedies like those of pozzallo, tragedies like those of lampedusa cannot, must not be repeated. but it must be a european story, it cannot be a regional story. i would ask you to return to your commission and look more closely at the mediterranean. he said: we are not going to be able to do that. can we dramatically reduce unemployment, give young people prospects, address the big issues? we have to do this or we're gonna fail. europe deserves all this. our citizens deserve it, our peoples deserve it. we are once again a europe proud of its historical identity, of our unmistakable cultural heritage, of our model of integration, of the community of law, of the social market economy. in the name of all this, mr president, i wish you a good job.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the five star movement does not intend to place any trust in this commission of the european communities. you have succeeded in keeping some commissioners in their posts despite a negative opinion from the relevant parliamentary committees. i am referring to navracsics, whose wallet you altered with a make-up and left in its place. we expected at least a new commissioner and a new hearing. moreover, all this took place in institutional silence and the decision was taken behind closed doors in a very short time and it is still not clear who is behind it. this is unacceptable! the european citizens must know this. the commissioners' hearings should not be a mere catwalk to give a semblance of democracy to choices already made elsewhere. such behaviour degrades the role of this parliament and of democracy as a whole. the commissioner for culture, education and youth cannot be a person who has inspired illiberal reforms in his own country.
mr president, we will vote for a commission which fully assumes its political responsibility for governance, which lives in greater democracy because the choice you mentioned of listening to the votes of the electorate is only the beginning of a path of popular investiture, which must be the option for the completion of the european project. the relationship with parliament will be crucial: the commission will have to cooperate in its programmes, it will have to be accountable and accountable for its actions and it will have to listen to the voice of the europeans who are speaking here. we ask you to reverse the relationship between politics and technocracy: politics decides, chooses, points the way. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. you know our priorities: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the environment. in other words, growth and employment. it really shows that you have learned the lesson from these years of political incapacity, lack of ambition, strength that europe has had in the face of the crisis, in the face of 18 million unemployed, shortsightedness and obstinate rigor. i can say, leaving even the ecb alone to have courage. your program must say that change is possible. in italy we won the european elections with a project for change: that we can change, that we must grow, that inequalities must be fought and eliminated because democracy is made of rights, equity and solidarity. our vote, mr president, was not taken for granted and is not obligatory. but it is a deliberate and conscious choice, i know that, it is an investment to realize that vision of europe which has been lacking, it is a fair and uncompromising challenge.
in writing. this juncker commission does not represent the democratic will of the people, who have expressed a desire for change. in the economic area, too much rigor will still be observed with the restrictive fiscal policies imposed on the states. at this historic moment of crisis, after five years of austerity, which has only generated impoverishment in the eurozone, there is no longer any valid excuse and motivation, supported by studies, to continue with these policies imposed by one member state, which is germany. we must quickly review the parameters of the six pack and two pack, call on the council to abolish the fiscal compact and amend the statute of the ecb so that the institution can have all the means to finance the real economy more effectively by contributing to the objectives enshrined in article 3 of the teu. if we do not do this, europe will continue to be impoverished and the states will be justified in wanting to regain sovereignty instead of giving it away. the 300 billion juncker plan is unlikely to provide the necessary stimulus to the economy. the private resources that are being called into question come from market speculators, who are forcing member states to create the necessary conditions to speculate through reforms in our countries and blackmail in these terms is not acceptable. "
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president juncker, i confirm the socialist and democratic group's vote in favour of your attention to parliament, the positive new institutional architecture you have chosen for the commission, your call for a rebalancing of austerity policies. i add that those who have committed themselves to bold structural reforms and are in a low growth situation must take advantage of all the flexibility provided for in the treaties for their attention to social: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. our rating agency is the citizens. he also confirmed his focus on investment: this is the decisive point for us. the commission has heard the speeches of my group colleagues. when you spoke of the investment plan, you said that the private sector also has a great responsibility, and you are right. i am convinced, however, that the recovery of the economy cannot be exclusively contracted out to private individuals and that there must be a clear commitment in its investment plan of public resources and for public investment. on the single market, we agree with you: structural reforms are needed to reduce the obstacles to growth. but beware of the rhetoric of structural reforms, many states have been making bold structural reforms for many years. we cannot continue to say that it is not enough, that they must always do more! perhaps if, despite these reforms, growth does not pick up, the problem is that structural reforms alone are not enough, but we also need a boost in domestic demand. the main problem facing the european economy is weak domestic demand. one last word i've heard a little: solidarity is the basis of the european project. between european states, between european citizens, but also beyond europe. you rightly mentioned the tragedy of ebola. this must be the test bed to show that europe exists. it's that wherever you are in the world, whatever your nationality, you're not going to leave anyone behind. there's a beautiful quote by don luigi ciotti, who says: it's not so much being a believer as being believed. this is the challenge of politics, this is your challenge, this is our challenge.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, europe is facing a watershed moment: we are well aware of the challenges we face and the heavy responsibility we have assumed in representing the concerns and hopes of the european citizens in europe. today you are asking us to trust your idea of europe and to approve your strategy, based on austerity and rigour, and you are asking us to confirm the people you have chosen. now, beyond the individual value of the people he proposes us as members of his team, we wonder whether this strategy is appropriate for the times, whether it responds to the immediate needs of europe's citizens in difficulty. the european union must be able to take action to ensure that the european union's citizens are not left behind. what we believe is that a dangerous revolution is taking place in europe. we believe that the fundamental values and principles are being abandoned and replaced by the reason of the state. the commission is in fact the complete antithesis of the principle of collegiality, with a strange concentration of powers and with figures and places that have never been introduced before, all supported by a european parliament that is not even able to respect the democratic principles of proportionality and representativeness within its own body. a european parliament which applies proportional methods only when they are in favour of the majority and tramples them underfoot when they are in favour of minorities, even though the latter represent millions of european citizens. all this is happening under the watchful eye of a european council, representing the member states, which can endorse the situation in greece, for example, where people are being deprived of health care, while at the same time billions of euros are being given to banks and financial institutions. we have a heavy responsibility to defend the weakest, the citizens, from the ruthless war between the big interests in europe. in this stormy sea we see no brave commanders, but only a dangerous attempt to concentrate strategic decisions in the hands of a few men and a few countries. for these reasons we shall not vote confidence in this commission. we are voting against because we want more, more respect for citizens, for small businesses, the heart of our economy, more respect for the environment, the only real common heritage, and above all more solidarity because the poor cannot wait. we are voting against because we want a europe that is more genuine, more democratic and closer to the people.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioners, my opinion of the commission is negative. the criticisms that emerged from the hearings were many, ranging from potential conflicts of interest to a lack of experience, if not incompetence, in areas that are key to the life of the union, not to mention the political line that distinguishes it, against which i intend to express my open disagreement. i will give two examples in particular. the commissioner jourová: we have not received any clear and satisfactory response from you to the embarrassing cover-up of conflicts of interest in the use of funds in the european union by the czech minister of finance and leader of his party, andrej babiš. we know that my question has caused a great deal of publicity in the press in your country, and that babiš himself has reacted to me in an unjustified manner, nervously and offensively. this does not bode well for its transparency and independence. commissioner avramopoulos, you are now famous in europe for praising the barbed wire fence on the greek border with turkey, stressing the need to protect our society and our borders from illegal immigration. this image is also a metaphor for the juncker commission's programme on immigration, a policy which does not provide any concrete solution to the humanitarian tragedy that is taking place in the mediterranean. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, i belong to a generation that has had the good fortune to be born and raised in europe. but that plan has been stuck in the middle over the years and perhaps the courage of the member states has been lacking, and so the responsibility facing this new commission is great. and i fully understand the choice of my group and the great work that has been done with the hearings in these weeks. but something is missing, and yet some of the choices made by president juncker did not convince me completely: i am talking about the number of women on whom perhaps more emphasis could be laid with the states and governments. i am talking about the choice that has been made, perhaps by failing to heed fully the warning issued by the committee on culture. for these reasons and for a number of others, i did not feel i had to give this vote in this house today, but i did so in the hope that in the future the many promises made by president juncker and other excellent members of the commission, including federica mogherini and frans timmermans, could also be carried forward with our help towards that european project which is currently a half-promised one.
mr president, i voted for the juncker commission. i really enjoyed his performance today. he confirmed that he is an experienced politician and that it is very good that he will lead this body as the representative of the winner of the european elections. as a newcomer to the european parliament, i followed the individual hearings, the individual statements and the speeches of the future commissioners closely and i must say that i was very impressed that it was not just a formal presentation of these future members of the european commission, but that it was a substantive debate that could examine their political considerations, their direction, and how they would like to run their departments. it is very good that the future european commission is a body of politicians, not of officials, that there are many more experienced top politicians, there are four prime ministers, etc. this will lead to a better position for it and, in my view, to greater respect in the european council. and the last thing is the program. i very much welcome the programme that regulates investment issues, 300 billion euros is a good investment plan for the eu economy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i give president juncker credit for having wanted a political commission, with an innovative structure that encourages the community method and with the challenge of bringing the european union closer to the citizens, and also with some excellent commissioners. i regret, however, as chairman of the committee on culture, that our clear indication was not given sufficient consideration, being limited to a small variation which does not affect the substantial competences on culture and education. i hope, however, that president juncker will accept the invitation from my group's chairman, mr pittella, to invest in culture as a pillar of sustainable development. but commissioner navracsics knows that we in the commission have appreciated his strong statements about his independence and his loyalty to the values and principles of the eu. we consider this a commitment to which we will refer and on the basis of which we can cooperate loyally without prejudice but without discount. that is why my abstention is a sign of political consistency but also of positive expectation.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this commission is not perfect, it has its shortcomings, if not its shadows. the questions connected with commissioners navracsics, hill and cañete concern me and i do not consider them closed at all, we will continue to monitor them carefully and scrupulously. however, there are also some excellent people in this commission, and the choice of mrs georgieva as vice-president shows the will to give the budget a central role and a role as a growth engine, so that we can invest again in research, development, employment, agriculture and the environment. frans timmermans and federica mogherini are also extraordinary personalities. they are both committed to lgbt rights. that, of course, gives me hope. i hope that president juncker will do the same. i have had mixed feelings in recent months and i fully appreciate the political importance of the vote we have taken today. i voted in favour of this because i have decided to trust the programme presented for that reason alone. in this sense, my vote is a genuine vote of confidence.
in writing. - today the grand coalition, s&d, epp and alde, all united in a love-letter, have given their confidence to the juncker commission. this has been done almost in secret from the public, who know little or nothing about the commission's appointment mechanism and the new commissioners. perhaps this is not a coincidence, since a financial lobbyist, hill, has been appointed to financial services, the son of the troika, katainen, to vice-president for jobs, growth and competitiveness, an oilman, cañete, to energy and climate change and an illiberal, navracsics, to education, culture and youth. that's just to name a few. the five star movement has therefore not given its support to the commission and will always remain vigilant in scrutinizing the commission's activities. european citizens deserved better and if they had known these names before the elections, the turnout would have been below 42.5% (the historical low for an ep election!) and the election results would have changed. the five star movement has also fought to bring more transparency to the cumbersome process of appointing commissioners, especially with regard to the work of parliamentary committees. citizens need to know how their elected representatives decide and vote for them.
in writing. - my vote in favour of the commission led by president juncker is dictated by the important commitments made in the economic field, which are also the basis for the s&d group's support. the context in which we live, a europe which is weak, fragmented and economically tested, needs concrete answers and clear horizons. the eu must once again be an instrument of growth for its citizens and not simply define budgetary constraints and parameters to be respected. the 300 billion investment plan may be a signal that europe is also changing its direction. a europe that is credible to its citizens is an authoritative europe in the international arena and in this sense i welcome the appointment of federica mogherini. we must be able to speak with one voice, both on the current crises and on the key issues, strong in the union's founding values and aware of the global scope of the current social and economic challenges. the new legislature is now officially beginning. we have the important task of working with the commission, urging it to take effective action and bringing the concerns of the citizens we represent to the table. we are all called upon to ensure that this opportunity for revival is seized.
in writing. - i voted against the new commission. commissioners are not up to the task and the programme is not enough to solve the economic crisis and the problems of the citizens. this new commission will continue to favour the interests of banks and financial groups over the interests of the citizens.
in writing. - i voted for the new commission today, hoping that it will act differently from the barroso commission, on which i have many reservations. i expect an ambitious commission with a strategic vision to lead us out of the crisis. juncker has signed a contract with parliament and i hope he intends to respect it. your team needs to come up with a credible strategy for investment and growth. it is essential that this commission looks more at people than at figures, more at citizens and their needs than at the figures in the stability pact. the new european commission is the eu's last chance: it is a question of whether the european union can bring its citizens closer to the european institutions or whether europe will fail. on the social aspects of european policy, juncker announced that the ambitious €300 billion investment plan, promised in july, would be presented by christmas. the credibility of the commission and the european parliament will be assessed in the context of the investment plan which should strengthen the european economy and boost employment and growth.
in writing. - the five star movement is opposed to the commission of jean claude juncker, both because of its composition and because of its reiterated desire to remain on the path of rigour and austerity. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we cannot believe that the college of commissioners, which is so composed, can act fairly and impartially in the measures it takes, if we only look at the cvs of some of its members, such as lord jonathan hill or miguel arias canete. the rules on transparency and the absence of conflicts of interest within the european institutions do not seem to apply to the body that most of all determines the content of legislative acts that heavily affect the lives of over 500 million people. we cannot trust the total impartiality of people who have built their careers in the financial or oil industry, they will always be inclined to accommodate the needs and demands of those who have worked with them for so many years.
in writing. - i am well aware of the difficulties involved in defining a government team and programme, and this is all the more true at european level, where an 'intersection' must be found between the will of the council, which is inevitably conditioned by the proposals reserved to the individual member states, and the will of parliament, or rather of the various political groups, in the light of their respective electoral weight. although there are reasons for concern, i supported the commission for the reasons of confidence in the programme, and in particular in certain priorities indicated on 15 july and reiterated today, and for the value of many commissioners, some of whom are in decisive positions precisely for the purpose of implementing those points of the programme which are most dear to me: combating unemployment, especially youth unemployment; the development of the area of justice, judicial cooperation and the fight against organised crime; and a new and stronger focus on immigration, through the building of a strong european policy on legal immigration and asylum. i therefore hope that a more effective common foreign policy will be established, one which is in line with the union's responsibilities. for these reasons, i have decided to place my trust in this commission today.
in writing. - i voted in confidence in the composition of the new commission. my trust is firstly in the hands of president juncker, who has already shown that he knows the european machine very well and knows where to put his hands to improve what is not working well. i am not entirely satisfied with the hearings of all the commissioners, but overall the college is far beyond adequate and it will be my task to prick those commissioners who are less in line with my expectations. the confidence we have today is not and will not be blind, but i will ensure that the interests of the european citizens are protected in practice.
in writing. - as has been the case for the past 20 years in italy, we are witnessing in the european parliament the ridiculous farce of the grand coalition between the people's party, the social democrats and the liberal democrats. i declare today, with a great sense of dignity, that among the votes against the junker commission is mine, as well as that of the whole of m5s. this committee, which will decide the fate of hundreds of millions of european citizens, is the result of a tried and tested and transparent collaboration between european lobbyists, bankers and freemasons. the european citizens must be informed that, after the economic and social disasters perpetrated by the barroso commissions over the last ten years, they are now condemned to another five years of austerity, increased poverty, new taxes and a shortage of social rights. without hesitation, commissioners were appointed, such as cañete, a shareholder in two oil companies, or katainen, a ruthless rigorist who wanted to mortgage the parthenon in exchange for financial aid to greece. and like them, many other unthinkable people who will rule this europe in the midst of social and economic crisis. this bastard could only see me against it. i have expressed my doubts in the committees responsible and i have done so today by voting!
in writing. - the creation of the new team to be headed by mr juncker was a turning point for the european institutional system. in spite of what was said, the candidate of the party which won the european elections in may was appointed president and this has resulted in a political government team which has, at its base, a political majority in the european parliament, with which it will have to confront and with which it will also have to deal. first, what has been announced as the main plan of action of the union since the beginning of the crisis. it has the potential to be a tremendous tool for boosting the european economy, but it can also be another wasted opportunity. i believe that the only way forward is to invest fresh resources - not just to re-allocate those already allocated under cohesion policy - which will enable the necessary private investment to be made. i don't see any other way. that will be the first real test on which we shall assess the real willingness of the new commission to make the change of pace which the european citizens have asked for in their vote.
in writing. - certain considerations allow me to vote in favour of the juncker commission today. the €300 billion investment plan represents a decisive change of strategy from the previous commission and can become an extraordinary driver for economic growth. only a growth programme can bring about a significant reduction in the unemployment rate, a major european scourge, and an improvement in the accounts of individual countries. i was convinced by president juncker's idea of aiming for a europe that achieves 'triple a' not on economic parameters but on social ones. a stronger focus by europe on the essential issue of immigration: the european parliament has already expressed its views on the situation in the southern mediterranean. of course, not everything is convincing in the composition of the board: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. however, as president juncker has said, this is the last chance to relaunch the european project, to put it on a new foundation, starting with greater democracy and a more decisive role for parliament.
in writing. - i express my vote of total disagreement with the election of mr juncker and his college of commissioners. as has been pointed out on many occasions, this committee represents in my view the continuation of a european policy which is not only wrong but absolutely harmful to the vast majority of european citizens.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the new commission chaired by jean-claude juncker because i am sure that this new governing team will be able to respond to the challenges of the international context. from the outset, the new president characterised the new commission's action as quick-witted, and he reiterated that on some issues europe was lagging behind - think of youth unemployment, the current ebola crisis, the big issues of climate change or energy supply. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the euro as a currency. i am therefore certain that the new european commission is moving in the right direction and i believe that it can make the right contribution to the revival of european action.
in writing. - i voted with conviction in favour of the european commission headed by my luxembourg colleague, jean-claude juncker. once the council formally confirms our vote in the house, the new commission will be able to take up its duties on 1 november. i have high hopes for the new commission in view of the complex challenges facing the european union in the years ahead. only with determination and a spirit of unity will it be possible to find a solution to problems such as youth employment, immigration, terrorism and economic recovery. the commissioner's team, led by mr juncker, has shown during the european parliament hearings that it is able to deal with a large number of people and that it has the right skills.
in writing. - i voted today to express my strong disagreement with the juncker commission because i reject this governance which does not protect the citizens or their interests. i reject a government that continues to pursue austerity policies without fear and that does not aim at growth, at development, that will not restore oxygen to a tortured social and economic fabric. i reject this team of commissioners who are in absolute continuity with the past, with those technocrats who have been pushing us towards the abyss for the last ten years. i will vote for a commission only when it stops looking to the interests of the usual well-known, of big capital, of the commercial banks, and puts smes and small social groups, the historical backbone of this continent, at the centre. i shall vote in favour only when there is a commission which will put resources into the agricultural production system to protect the 'kilometre zero', the quality of production and the authenticity of products. the commission to which i will say yes cannot be that of juncker, that of euro bureaucrats with interests which are opposed to ours. i will vote for a commission which, in five years' time, will wipe you and the shady interests you have created out of existence. that day will come. in the meantime, hear our resounding no to this team.
in writing. - president juncker has answered many of our doubts, and he has touched on a number of points which lead me to place my trust in him and in this commission. a political commission, to begin with, which marks the primacy of politics over bureaucracy, where, to use his own words, it will be the directors-general who follow the instructions of the commissioners, not the other way around. the new organisation with seven vice-presidents is a positive one, for it obliges the college to act as such, not as a closed group. above all, i was convinced of juncker's great europeanist strength, which is what unites us more than anything else. he showed that he was fully aware of the crucial moment we are at, the juncture where we either become something not just more but something profoundly different from the union of states alone, or the eu will collapse on itself. i believe that the only hope, the only horizon for all is europe, to invest in it, to build a solid alliance on the political, fiscal and social levels; the european union is committed to finding common answers to problems that affect us all, from youth unemployment to climate change, to the implementation of sustainable development. if the commission is really going to act to achieve these objectives fully, we will certainly be working together.
in writing. - the european commission under the presidency of jean-claude juncker has strong leadership that can effectively implement the development and employment policies needed to boost growth in europe. we could not afford to delay any longer, the necessary reforms must be made as soon as possible, targeted investments must be made and flexibility must be used wisely. we must give immediate and valid answers to the eu citizens who voted for us and put their trust in us.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the new commission headed by jean-claude juncker, who presented the commissioners and their programme, and pointed out that he had taken over the requests of the parliamentary committees following the hearings with the appointed commissioners. the election of the commission was an important step towards greater transparency and democracy in europe. the ppe group believes that the commission's priority must be to find concrete solutions to the demands of european citizens, particularly on the issues of stability, growth and employment, but also on security, immigration and foreign policy.
in writing. - i believe that with today's vote we have guaranteed ourselves another five long years of austerity, austerity and economic recession. i am sad to say that this is a sad observation, because the 'new' juncker commission is nothing but a clear continuation, perhaps with even worse aspects, of the ten years of barroso. it is difficult to expect anything other than an agreement between the traditional european political families of the popular, socialist and liberal parties, which are among the main culprits in the current tragic situation. my italian colleagues from the democratic party and forza italia have today strongly supported all this, in the face of the radical change they were calling for every day during the election campaign. it is quite easy to understand that the man who has been at the helm of the eurogroup until recently and who has been at the top of his country for almost 20 years is unlikely to be able to represent change. and the team that's going to be on his side is in some ways even worse, with an oilman who's going to be on climate, a financial lobbyist who's going to be on banking regulation, and a minister who's brought his country to financial ruin who's going to be on the economy: i am sure that this is a good representation of what this european union is becoming.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this technical measure which moves budget surpluses from 2013 to 2014 for a total amount of € 1.005 million.
in writing. - i voted yes. the surplus will partly compensate the member states' contribution to the financing of the amending budget 3/2014.
in writing. - in view of the strong payment pressures for 2014 and the reinforcements requested by the commission in draft amending budget (dab) no 3/2014, it was proposed that the amount of the surplus for the financial year 2013 be used to finance the newly created budget line 'reserve for additional payment needs' on the expenditure side of the budget. given that the funds requested by the commission in the form of draft amending budgets will be used to enable payments to be made to local authorities, small businesses and other beneficiaries in 2014, i believe it is essential to reach agreement on the draft amending budgets before negotiations with the council begin. that is why i voted in favour of the resolution today.
in writing. - the financial regulations provide that the commission is obliged to present each year a draft amending budget which takes account of the result of the previous financial year. in this case, the current accounting is for the year 2013. if there is a surplus of some eur 1 005 million, it would mean that eur 30 billion of invoices remain unpaid, so the payment appropriations are not sufficient to cover all that has already been spent. the council has asked the member states to pay the invoices within 30 days, so if this type of practice continues, it will mean, for example, that erasmus students will not be able to receive the emoluments for their scholarships, some of the beneficiaries of the structural funds will not be paid and there could be many examples of a failure to serve the citizens. the 2015 budget is already under discussion but we want guarantees to close the 2014 budget.
in writing. - with the second amending budget for 2014, the commission took account of the surplus of the 2013 budget, the balances of which are in line with previous years. these surpluses are reimbursed to the member states by way of compensation for the monthly contributions paid by the member states to the european union. for our country this will be about 110 million euros. i voted in favour of the draft amending budget in question, because the measure essentially involves a return of funds from the eu treasury to the member states.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this purely technical budget, which is part of a specific procedure codified in the financial regulation, which, once the result of the previous financial year has been established, requires that the budgetary changes noted be adopted and entered in the current year. the current situation is quite positive, with a surplus of eur 1 005 million from the 2013 budget forecast to be booked in 2014, meaning that the eu will have an additional amount of own resources at its disposal to reduce the need to request any additional contributions from the member states.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of this measure which is an amending budget and refers to a surplus for the 2013 eu budget of around eur 1 billion, largely due to higher revenue from fines and interest on late payments. as a rule, this amount should be returned to the member states, but in view of various problems and the continuing shortage of funds, especially for payments, the committee on budgets of the european parliament has proposed that the adoption of this second amending budget be linked to the subsequent third and fourth budgets, in such a way as to compensate for unexpected revenue and expenditure and thus have a neutral impact. this, together with further amending budgets, should even lead to a final surplus for the eu coffers. it is therefore essential to consider this amending budget as linked to the subsequent ones and as a priority in relation to the discussions and adoption of the budget for the coming year 2015. all this because it is felt that it is absolutely necessary to settle the previous situations as soon as possible, before tackling everything else.
in writing. - i shall vote in favour of the draft amending budget. this surplus will partly compensate the member states' contribution to the financing of the amending budget 3/2014.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of mr deprez's report because the appropriations provided for in it will be used to cover the need for additional payment appropriations identified by the commission in draft amending budget no 3. unfortunately, the implementation of the annual budgets and the gap between commitment and payment appropriations clearly show that the present budgetary policy cannot remain unchanged. there is a need to move strongly towards reform of the own resources system in order to decouple the eu budget from the needs of individual member states.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mr deprez on the technical measure moving the budget surpluses from 2013 to 2014 for a depreciation of about eur 1 billion in total, so that unforeseen revenue and expenditure can be compensated and there is a final surplus for the eu coffers.
in writing. - i voted in favour of draft amending budget no 2/2014 as it is intended solely to enter in the budget the surplus resulting from the implementation of the previous financial year. at the end of 2013, the surplus was around eur 1 005 million. this sum, according to the financial regulation, results in a refund to the member states, normally by way of offsetting the monthly contributions paid by the member states to the eu. for italy, the amount of the refund is around eur 110 million. the surplus will thus partly offset the member states' contribution to the financing of amending budget no 3.
in writing. - in draft amending budget no 2/2014, the european commission took account of the result of the previous financial year, i.e. the surplus of the 2013 budget. the commission has also received a letter from the president of the european parliament, mr pisani, on behalf of the european union, in which he has stated that he intends to continue the work of the european parliament. the financial regulation provides for a reimbursement to the member states of the amounts paid in compensation for the monthly contributions paid by the member states to the eu. the draft amending budget will provide for the reimbursement of sums whose amounts vary from one member state to another.
in writing. - i voted in favour of draft amending budget no 2/2014 on the surplus resulting from the implementation of the 2013 financial year, which provides for a surplus to be entered in the union budget for the 2014 financial year of eur 1,005 million, thus reducing the contributions of the member states by the same amount. the main components of this surplus are a positive revenue result of eur 771 million, an under-performance of expenditure of eur 276 million and a negative exchange rate difference of eur 42 million. there are currently three draft amending budgets proposed by the commission for the 2014 budget. taking the three draft amending budgets together, the net budgetary impact would be only eur 106 million.
in writing. - after blaming the crisis on the member states, after imposing austerity measures which have cost its citizens tears and blood, europe is now paying the price. in the face of 25 million unemployed europeans and 3 million italians who, despite having a job, are living on the dole, unable to afford a decent meal or a roof over their heads, europe is asking for more money. at a time when citizens need support and services and businesses are looking for new funding to boost their competitiveness, the eu should be the first to set a good example. the total lack of willingness to make cuts to cut expenditure has therefore convinced me to vote against the text.
in writing. - the draft budget for 2015 continues to show a trend towards increased expenditure and payment commitments. the contribution of the states to the functioning of the institutions is a flow of money which should be used according to strict criteria of necessity, especially in times of severe structural crisis throughout the continent. however, we can see that not only administrative expenditure is increasing, but also contributions to european political foundations and parties are increasing, while the taxpayers of the nations which have created the institutions themselves are deprived of the economic security which should come from the capillary action of the latter.
in writing. - (amendments nos 553-554-555-556-557) the issue of the costs of politics - which is linked to the wider issue of the costs of democracy - is a delicate and complex issue, which, especially in times of economic crisis, is subject to controversy and, sometimes, exploitation. in view of this, i believe that, as we are officially called upon to take a position as members of parliament on aspects of our economic treatment, it is appropriate - precisely because the decision directly affects 'our pockets' (and, indirectly, those of all citizens) - to set aside not only our own private interests but also any possible reservations of principle on the 'details' and possible contingent purposes of individual initiatives, and instead to maintain a clear and transparent position. not to indulge populist, anti-political or anti-european impulses, but simply because, faced with the choice between maintaining the current treatment and instead exploiting a certain margin of reduction that it allows (without affecting the functionality, decorum and dignity of our institution) to free up resources for other more pressing needs, primarily the fight against unemployment and crime, conscience and reason lead, in my opinion, to prefer the second option. for purely 'objective' reasons, rather than symbolic ones. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the draft general budget of the european union for 2015, but i am rather critical of two points: the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the establishment of a european agricultural fund for rural development. i hope that the funds for the areas affected by the floods in recent weeks will be requested in good time and allocated as soon as possible, but i think that beyond the powers, a solidarity mechanism must also be set up to increase the appropriations. as regards the reserve for agricultural crises, i would like to see our farms which are suffering because of the russian embargo compensated with funds made available by the very authorities which have triggered the embargo in response. my focus on these issues remains high.
in writing. - we are once again faced with the council's choices, which, in defiance of all economic and social considerations and in deference to mere accounting estimates, implements indiscriminate cuts to the commission's proposal, which in itself represented the minimum necessary to achieve, albeit partially, the objectives of the union. it is our duty as parliamentarians, representatives elected directly by the european citizens, to emphasize forcefully that without these objectives the union itself cannot exist, transforming itself into a monetary machine - more or less two-speed - devoid of soul and added value, which alienates the citizens and pushes them ever more towards forms of euroscepticism that degenerate into "eurorigetto". in addition to the risk of further increases in the level of unpaid debt, given the gap between commitments and payments; is very concerned that for heading 1b the council has not taken adequate account of the fact that, as the 2007-2013 programming period comes to an end, there will be a surge in payment requests in 2015. the lack of funds is putting the survival of hundreds of european companies at risk, and with it the survival of thousands of workers. as s&ds, this is the austerity we do not want and against which we will continue to fight.
in writing. - i would like to express my great satisfaction with today's vote on the european union's 2015 budget, which concerns the european parliament's negotiating position with a view to conciliation. the socialist rapporteur, eider gardiazabal, has done a very good job in reaching an agreement with the popolari, alde and the greens to reinstate the original commission proposal by opposing the cuts that the council wanted. we are particularly pleased that the agreement includes the strengthening of certain political priorities, central to our group, in support of growth, competitiveness and employment, the strengthening of the frontex agency's culture, media and the adoption of increases to reduce the impact of russian sanctions on the import of certain agricultural products and the fishing industry. we must realise that a whole range of regional programmes and initiatives, the work of many ngos and university programmes such as erasmus, are at risk today. it is our duty to take on these problems by doing everything in our power to ensure that they continue to be funded.
in writing. - i thought it appropriate to stick to my group's position on the vote on the community budget for 2015.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the draft general budget for 2015, which the council had approved last month, because parliament's intervention has enabled the commitment appropriations to be increased to eur 146.3809 billion and the payment appropriations to be increased to eur 146.4165 billion. among the demands made by parliament, i think it is important to stress the need for additional appropriations to stimulate growth and employment, the possibility of establishing more funds for small and mediumsized enterprises which are experiencing serious difficulties because of the crisis, more funding for research and development programmes and increased funding to meet international obligations. as regards heading 3 of the draft budget, i welcome the fact that parliament has asked the commission and the council to intensify both political and financial efforts in the coming years. this heading covers the european union's essential policies, such as asylum and immigration policies and internal security. i hope very much that an agreement will be reached with the council in the near future so that the budget can be adopted at the next plenary session in november.
in writing. - i voted in favour of amendment no 232 because i believe strongly in the need to eliminate public funding of any kind, direct or indirect, towards cruel practices towards any kind of animal. the european convention for the protection of animals kept for farming purposes is clear: animals should not feel pain, fear, distress or be hurt. in this case, it is not acceptable for the cap to finance the possibility of holding shows using bulls for the sake of popular entertainment. i will continue to support battles like this one for the protection of animals.
in writing. - today's vote on the budget is a clear demonstration that european politicians are also capable of asking sacrifices only from others. we had tabled a number of amendments to reduce certain administrative expenditure, thus freeing up funds for priority lines of intervention: the majority of the house, the socialist-liberal people's bloc, rejected all this. we wanted first of all to see a reduction in the salaries of us members of parliament, our allowances and also some privileges which are so dear to the bureaucrats in brussels. less than 200 out of over 700 voted for our proposal: this is outrageous and shows once again the hypocrisy of traditional politics. of course, public contributions to european political parties and foundations have remained high and even increased: is this a european priority, something worth investing several million euros in? i do not think so, but the majority want to secure public subsidies for their apparatus and thus continue their disastrous policies which have reduced us to the dramatic situation we find ourselves in today. if we want to be credible, especially to our citizens, we must be the first to set an example, and we certainly did not do that today.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i wanted to express my satisfaction with the approval given to amendment no 12, which has been widely shared in this parliament. that means that this topic has been shared by a lot of people, which has created a real thought movement. i am firmly convinced that funding for lethal cattle should not be used at all, not least because this is a real violation of the european convention on the protection of animals and we know how much attention there is increasingly and fortunately to animal issues. i am also pleased that the road map has been agreed, which would lead to a single seat for the european parliament. this is also a subject which is strongly felt by the citizens of europe. unfortunately, the amendment concerning sugar-producing undertakings was not adopted, and this will have a very negative economic impact.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the iter programme is intended to build the largest thermonuclear reactor in the world. this project has a total cost of eur 15 billion. the itre commission, with the 59th amendment to the budget, intends to increase the funding for the project again. we understand the reasons and hopes of many researchers working in this area of basic research, especially if we refer to the objective of reducing the production of nuclear waste as the iter project promises to do. however, i personally voted against amendment no 59 because at a time of such acute economic crisis, these additional resources should have been allocated to more pressing social issues. i believe that the iter project should not be abandoned, but at least we should now concentrate exclusively on the primary objective of 500 mw of power from 50 mw of start-up capacity by 2028. therefore, only the key scientific priorities already identified in the project review should be safeguarded without any further unacceptable delays for the future.
in writing. - after blaming the crisis on the member states, after imposing austerity measures which have cost its citizens tears and blood, europe is now paying the price. in the face of 25 million unemployed, mainly young people, 3 million italians who, despite having a job, are living on the dole, unable to afford a decent meal or a roof over their heads, europe is asking for more money. at a time when citizens need support and services and businesses are looking for new funding to boost their competitiveness, the eu should be the first to set a good example. the total lack of willingness to make cuts to cut expenditure has convinced me to vote against the text.
in writing. - the cuts envisaged by the council in the commission's proposal on the level of payments for 2015 are not sustainable in the current crisis: the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the competitiveness of the european economy, growth and jobs. that is why i voted in favour of the amendments by the committee on budgets to restore the commission's proposals, which provided for the full use of available resources. in the context of the financial commitment to economic and social development, action should also be taken to promote a more targeted and responsible use of eu resources. the additional cost of the two seats of the parliament, for example, is particularly onerous - estimated at between €156 and €204 million per year. that is why i voted in favour of amendment no 86, which reaffirms the assembly's position on the definition of a single seat.
in writing. - i voted against it. in the face of very heavy cuts by member states and local authorities, almost always to the detriment of citizens, there is no sense in this budget of doing the same at the level of the eu institutions.
in writing. - today i voted in favour of the resolution on the budget of the european union, the most important political document, which is still perceived by the member states as a burden, as an additional burden on national budgets, and not as it should be, that is, as an opportunity to strengthen initiatives and investments which have added value for the union. it would have been desirable, at a time of major crisis such as the one we are experiencing, to have discussed a slightly more ambitious draft budget for europe which would have provided, for example, for the strengthening of the programmes which are at the heart of the europe 2020 strategy, aimed at promoting growth, competitiveness and employment. i also believe that unnecessary expenditure and waste must be reduced. i therefore supported the amendments which proposed a 10% reduction in members' salaries, a 15% reduction in travel allowance costs, a 15% reduction in general allowance costs, a 50% reduction in transitional allowances and a 15% reduction in members' pensions. i also voted in favour of the amendment to the single european act (brussels) which i hope will lead to the abolition of the strasbourg seat.
in writing. - in the face of a crisis which has now lasted seven years, parliament's response is to increase expenditure commitments, thus creating problems of late payments. over the years, administrative expenditure has increased, but what seems more serious is the increase in contributions to european political parties and foundations. we must remember that the distinction between these two subjects is one of the many tricks to get more public funds and to confuse those who are not in the business of making contributions by making them believe that such substantial contributions are necessary. when people are forced to face an economic reality that is getting worse by the day, it is more than a duty to spend public contributions to help those in need, instead of reserving those funds for politicians and high-level bureaucrats.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the draft budget of the european union for 2015 as i share the line taken by parliament in this respect, especially as regards the increase in strategic investment in measures with european added value to help boost the european economy and promote competitiveness, sustainable growth and employment, especially for young people. payment appropriations for competitiveness for growth and employment are essential to overcome the crisis and to revive economic growth. i therefore share parliament's wish to concentrate the increase in appropriations on programmes at the heart of the europe 2020 strategy, such as horizon 2020 to promote research and innovation, cosme to help businesses and smes, erasmus+ to support training, education, youth and sport, and so on. it is now essential that a balanced agreement be reached with the council and that the joint project that will result be in the interests of the european citizens and aimed at overcoming the crisis.
in writing. - it is obvious that economic growth and employment cannot be stimulated without the necessary appropriations. however, the right balance must be struck between rigor and development and between commitment and payment appropriations. the credibility of the european union must not be weakened by continuing delays in payments, to the detriment of smes and young people, and by the unnecessary waste of economic resources. i therefore voted in favour because it is our responsibility to implement the new multiannual programmes and to honour the commitments we have made, by providing more funding to smes, to young people through the erasmus programme, to support research and innovation with horizon 2020 and the agricultural policy and also what is provided for in heading 3, namely to strengthen the european response to the humanitarian and social crisis in relation to the management of migration flows.
in writing. - today i could only vote against the general eu budget for the year 2015. the budget proposed by the commission in june provided for a total of eur 145.599 billion in commitments and eur 142.137 billion in payments. the council presented its proposal in july, which provides for some eur 500 million less in commitments and over eur 2 billion less in payments than the figures presented by the commission. this reduction was the result of generalized linear cuts, without taking into account the priorities repeatedly expressed by the various european institutions. the european parliament has therefore reacted to these cuts by proposing a basic strategy aimed at restoring the figures originally proposed by the european commission, and even going beyond for several budget lines. the result after parliament's amendments is therefore 146.348 billion in commitments and 146.416 billion in payments. the approach taken by the m5s in committee was to table over 100 amendments, which highlighted some priorities where we felt it was necessary to increase appropriations, such as immigration, agricultural crises, support for smes and youth employment, humanitarian aid, and on the other hand to indicate some lines that could be reduced, such as the pre-accession instrument and communication costs.
in writing. - i would like to state my reasons for voting in favour of the amendments which provide for a significant increase in eu support for unrwa, the united nations agency which provides assistance to 5 million palestinian refugees, to meet the immediate needs of the population once again hit this year by a conflict which is all the more abhorrent as it affects civilians and innocent children on both sides. the vote in favour was not, however, dissociated from the following considerations: all the actors in the region must ensure that humanitarian aid actually reaches the people without being wasted and without raising suspicions of the diversion of funds either directly or indirectly to activities even remotely comparable to pro-terrorist propaganda, or to the creation of bureaucratic patronage mechanisms to reward those who would exploit the suffering of a region in crisis. we will ensure that this does not happen and we will hold the european citizens accountable for how every euro they donate is spent.
in writing. - i express my negative vote by strongly criticising the eu for its budget. in the face of the very heavy cuts and sacrifices being made by member states and local authorities, almost always to the detriment of the citizens, there is no sense in this budget of doing the same at european level.
in writing. - first of all, i would like to thank my colleagues gardiazabal and hohlmeier for the work they have done so far in the 2015 budgetary procedure. in recent years we have fought hard as a parliament to ensure that the european budget has the funds necessary to allow the proper implementation of all european policies, and we have done so in a responsible way. we have done so again today, concentrating our priorities on support for employment, enterprise, education and research. the difficulties of the next negotiation are unfortunately still evident, especially on the payment front, but we are confident that the council can meet the needs of the citizens by guaranteeing the investments needed for the development of the eu.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament's position on the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2015, as i believe that it is right to concentrate the increase in appropriations on programmes at the heart of the europe 2020 strategy, such as cosme, horizon 2020, progress and erasmus+. i believe that only by focusing member states' efforts on the europe 2020 strategy can the objectives set out in the multiannual financial framework - such as growth, employment and competitiveness - that europe needs to emerge from the crisis be achieved.
in writing. - my final vote on the eu budget for 2015 was negative. i would like to point out, however, that i voted in favour of a number of important amendments, which called for: - making unemployment and the fight against poverty the eu's priorities; - transparency measures for parliamentary allowances; - a 'single seat' for a single seat of the european parliament. i also voted in favour of the amendment calling for the cap appropriations not to be used to finance lethal bullfighting, listening to the voice of thousands of citizens who, like me, consider this practice unacceptable and a clear violation of the european convention on the protection of animals kept for farming purposes (council directive 98/58/ec);
in writing. - after careful consideration of the document in question, i have voted in favour.
in writing. - i gave my assent to the general budget of the european union because, in a difficult period such as the one we are living through, one of economic crisis and low growth, it is necessary to strike the right balance between rigour and development, identifying clearly and transparently the most important political priorities and objectives to be achieved, through the effective use and allocation of available resources. i am glad that the plenary has agreed to amendment no 86 on the road map to a single seat for the european parliament. i believe that it can bring about important savings in the eu budget, especially at a time like this of scarce resources, and it also meets the demands of the european citizens. i regret, however, that amendment no 34, on the need to create a restructuring fund for the sugar sector, was rejected. european firms in this sector, which are particularly affected by a severe structural crisis, would need targeted aid to cope with the necessary restructuring to boost their competitiveness.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the draft budget (db) for 2015 proposed by the commission, which amounts to eur 145.599,3 million in commitment appropriations and eur 142.137,3 million in payment appropriations. the overall volume of payment appropriations in the db represents a moderate increase of 1,4% compared to the budget and is still eur 2 billion below the 2013 budget implementation. the committee on budgets voted on a total of 1 500 amendments and the result of the vote fully satisfies the ppe group. all the cuts adopted by the council have been reintroduced at the level of the draft budget. the ppe group wants to promote growth and jobs through a budget that strengthens scientific research, the erasmus+ programme, the cef and smes. it does not accept the cuts proposed by the council, which accentuate the problem of payments. the ppe group felt that all the cuts made by the council should be reviewed and proposed that all the flexibility instruments available should be used to deal effectively with the situation.
in writing. - my final vote on the european union budget is negative because, in the face of very large cuts being made by member states and local authorities, almost always to the detriment of citizens, there is no awareness in this budget of doing the same at the level of the european institutions.
in writing. - i voted against the draft budget for 2015 because there are considerable resources in lines which should be reduced and reallocated to key sectors which respond concretely to the real needs of the member states in greatest difficulty. in the committee on budgets, m5s proposed a number of cuts in all the administrative waste in the various european institutions and at the same time tried to reallocate part of these cuts to items to support the real needs of citizens, such as appropriations for employment, the fight against fraud and corruption, smes, policies for managing and controlling migration flows and instruments to facilitate access to credit. the performance of each european programme needs to be assessed in order to understand whether the appropriations provided are really able to contribute to the well-being of citizens. the european funds must first of all be efficient and able to create added value for taxpayers. i therefore voted against the proposal as it would have seen the eu spend its money on superfluous items such as funding for political foundations, communication and pre-accession processes, without focusing instead on spending on key priorities at a time of such a difficult economic crisis.
in writing. - i voted against the 2015 budget proposal because i believe that there has not been enough commitment to cutting unnecessary and untimely expenditure and instead supporting virtuous initiatives. i regret in particular that the quorum for the amendment which sought to exclude bullfighting from cap funding was not reached. it is shameful that such brutal practices involving the killing of animals for entertainment are supported by public money, which could be used for more noble purposes. civil society has mobilized to this end, collecting 10,000 signatures in italy alone in support of this amendment: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of animals used for scientific purposes. we members of parliament have a duty to represent these interests and to speak for them. i, like many of my colleagues, felt this sensitivity when i first signed this amendment and then voted in favour of it. our efforts have not been enough this time, but i hope that in the future more and more members will join this battle of civilisation.
in writing. - i did not vote in favour of the zahradil report on the additional protocol on trade between the eu and the republic of korea. the measure is unbalanced and does not take account of the disparities between these economies. while asian companies are operating in a very dynamic and competitive market, european companies are still going through a very strong crisis and i believe that this agreement could damage them further.
in writing. - i voted against it. the measure is harmful, south korea is a country with much more dynamic industries in a very competitive industrial sector. we should protect ourselves with ad hoc tariffs instead of opening up the eu market to them.
in writing. - on 6 march 2014, the council of the eu concluded, on behalf of the european union (eu) and its member states, the additional protocol to the free trade agreement signed on 15 october 2009 with the republic of korea. on 17 february 2011, the european parliament adopted a legislative resolution approving the agreement by 465 votes in favour, 128 against and 19 abstentions. on 1 july 2013, the republic of croatia joined the eu as the 28th member state. the additional protocol to the eu-korea free trade agreement taking into account the accession of croatia was signed and also entered into force on 1 july 2013. the current council decision therefore aims to ensure that croatia continues to participate fully in the eu-korea free trade agreement which remains in force. i voted in favour of the protocol, taking into account that the european parliament's approval of this council decision is a mandatory element for the completion of the ratification process and helps to safeguard the integrity of the union's internal market.
in writing. - the additional protocol to the eu-korea free trade agreement aims to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union on 1 july 2013. the recommendation of mr zahradil therefore only gives a legal framework to this situation. the european parliament's approval of this council decision is a mandatory element for the completion of the ratification process.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the protocol to the free trade agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of korea, of the other part, which is intended to take account of the accession of croatia to the european union. following the accession of croatia to the european union, it became mandatory to review all trade agreements in force in order to extend them, with the associated benefits and obligations, to croatia. this is usually done through an accession protocol, as in this specific case with south korea.
in writing. - i have decided to vote in favour of the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of an additional protocol to the free trade agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of korea, of the other part, to take account of the accession of croatia to the eu, which was initiated on 15 october 2009. i believe that croatia should be guaranteed the possibility of participating in the eu-korea free trade agreement currently in force. i also believe that a vote in favour is necessary to safeguard the integrity of the internal market of the european union and to complete the ratification process of the agreement with the south korean state.
in writing. - i vote in favour of the conclusion of an additional protocol to the eu-korea free trade agreement. i will support the completion of the ratification process and thereby contribute to safeguarding the integrity of the union's internal market, also taking into account the fact that on 1 july 2013 the republic of croatia joined the eu as its 28th member state. my vote in favour is intended to ensure that this member state continues to participate fully in the eu-korea free trade agreement.
in writing. - on 1 july 2013, the republic of croatia joined the eu as its 28th member state. an additional protocol to the eu-korea free trade agreement, taking account of the accession of croatia, entered into force provisionally on the same day. on 6 march 2014, the council of the european union decided to conclude, on behalf of the european union and its member states, the additional protocol to the free trade agreement previously signed on 15 october 2009 between the eu and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of korea, of the other part. i thought i would vote in favour of this provision because it is intended to ensure, in accordance with the act of accession of croatia to the eu, that this member state continues to participate fully in the eu-korea free trade agreement.
in writing. - i am voting against the eu-south korea free trade agreement. the text is not convincing in several respects, not least because the companies in the asian country are much more dynamic and develop in a much more competitive environment than ours.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of mr zahradil's recommendation that croatia, which became the 28th eu member state on 1 july 2013, be allowed to benefit from the free trade agreement signed on 15 october 2009 between the eu and its member states, on the one hand, and the republic of korea, on the other. the additional protocol is a mandatory element for the completion of the ratification process and also contributes to safeguarding the integrity of the internal market of the european union.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on customs duties on goods from ukraine because i believe that this proposal is crucial for the peace process in ukraine. i also believe that it is essential for the eu to extend the trade partnership agreements, which are very much needed to strengthen the eu's financial, economic and social security, and to make a positive contribution to the development of an inclusive, just and strong europe.
in writing. - it is the duty of this parliament to ensure that each member of the european union is guaranteed the necessary instruments to achieve its social and economic aspirations, on the basis of full respect for the principle of equity. it is therefore essential that each of them should enjoy the same privileges of access to a global inspiration market, the proper functioning of which depends on the efficiency of the agreements between the parties. in this context, the conclusion of an additional protocol to the free trade agreement between the eu member states and the republic of korea, which takes into account the accession of croatia to the community, is an act of absolute responsibility, the guarantee that the last of the countries to join our european family will continue to be assured full participation in the economic agreement between the union and the asian country. the decision to vote in favour of mr zahradil's report stems not only from the foregoing considerations but also from a clear awareness of the following: the reduction of trade barriers and the creation of a more stable and transparent environment for trade and investment are two essential prerequisites for achieving prosperity and growth within our countries.
in writing. - the additional protocol to the eu-korea free trade agreement, which takes account of the accession of croatia, entered into force provisionally with effect from 1 july 2013. consequently, the current council decision aims to ensure, in accordance with the act of accession of croatia to the eu, that that member state continues to participate fully in the eu-korea free trade agreement. the european parliament's consent to such a council decision is a mandatory element for the completion of the ratification process and also contributes to safeguarding the integrity of the union's internal market. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. - the vote on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union and its member states, of an additional protocol to the free trade agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of korea, of the other part, is taken to take account of the accession of croatia to the european union which took place after the date of the agreement. the eu-korea free trade agreement, which includes croatia, was signed and entered into force provisionally as early as 1 july 2013. the final approval of the council decision is a necessary step to ensure that the ratification process is completed and that the internal market of the european union functions in its full integrity.
in writing. - croatia's accession to the european union requires a review of all trade agreements in force to allow for their extension, with benefits and obligations, to croatia. this is generally done by means of an accession protocol, as in the specific case of south korea. i voted in favour of supporting the process of accession of the republic of croatia to the eu and promoting trade with the republic of korea.
in writing. - this is because croatia was not yet part of the eu when the eu-south korea free trade agreement was approved. in line with my vote against the entire text during the last parliamentary term, i also confirm my opposition to this protocol. the eu-south korea free trade agreement is not convincing in several respects, not least because companies in the asian country are much more dynamic and develop in a much more competitive environment than ours.
in writing. - considering that the european semester is one of the instruments through which the commission has imposed eu supervision on the budgets and economies of the member states, preventing the recovery of our economies, i did not support the de backer report on the implementation of the priorities of this instrument for 2014.
in writing. - i voted against it. the european semester is a framework through which the eu exercises de facto control over the budgets and economies of the member states.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report today because i believe that greater coordination of economic policies between all the member states is essential. member states must maintain their commitments on economic reforms. in 2013, only 10% of country-specific recommendations were fully implemented, while 45% of those recommendations made little or no progress. the commission should, in my view, submit quarterly reports to parliament on the progress made in implementing the country-specific recommendations. but member states must also do their part and in particular those which have not complied with these recommendations should explain the reasons for not complying. as regards the content of the recommendations, it is essential that a common eu labour market and a common immigration policy be created. the simplification of tax systems and the adoption of urgent measures to combat tax fraud and evasion are other important common objectives. finally, i urge member states to invest in research and innovation, as agreed in the europe 2020 strategy.
in writing. - the coordination of economic policies must not be limited to balancing the budget. these figures represent people, businesses and social realities who are seriously affected by a suicidal policy for which only statistical appearances and the observance of rules that are too strict and do not correspond to the real needs of the european population matter. investments must be made in the real economy, the speculative logic that dominates the purely financial economy bases its profit on algorithms, whereas it should be based on the expansion of jobs, on the growth of enterprises that constitute the social fabric. this multitude of people should be able to prosper with the union's financial aid, but unfortunately this is not the case and the crisis has been going on for too long. if we continue down the path of austerity, there will be nothing left in europe but rubble.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the european semester for the coordination of economic policies on the implementation of the priorities for 2014. in particular, i share the focus on the importance of investment in creating jobs, generating household income and stimulating growth, thereby supporting economic recovery. the call for the new european commission is to increase european investment by €300 billion, as jean-claude juncker announced in his political guidelines. another important focus is on the fight against youth unemployment, including through the exchange of useful information between member states. finally, i share the concerns expressed about the risks to the growth and sustainability of smes and the calls for restoring the capacity of the economic system to lend and facilitating access to programmes such as cosme and horizon 2020 for smes.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr de backer's resolution because the european semester plays an essential role in the coordination of european policies, and therefore between the macroeconomic and budgetary policies of the member states, which is necessary to achieve a proper and efficient economic and monetary union (emu). in debating priorities, we must bear in mind what is necessary to improve the daily lives of all european citizens. the challenges ahead are many, but we must identify clear objectives: first of all, to solve the problem of unemployment, especially among young people, which has reached an extremely alarming rate. promote competitiveness and growth by increasing investment by launching as soon as possible the €300 billion plan announced by juncker; make the most of the potential of the 2020 strategy and improve better and stronger tax coordination to ensure a level playing field and avoid unfair competition and harmful distortions within the single market.
in writing. - i vote against the report on the european semester for the coordination of economic policies. the european semester is a cycle of coordination of the eu's economic and fiscal policies. the aim of such coordination would be to ensure sound public finances, promote economic growth and prevent excessive macroeconomic imbalances. m5s tried to put its priorities through a series of amendments, which were rejected. the text produced by the econ committee was not sustainable for us, especially as regards the strictly economic part. we are opposed to the economic and fiscal policies which have been put in place so far, and this text does not distance itself from them.
in writing. - the vote in favour was affected by the deletion of the second part of paragraph 23, which explicitly reiterated the link between the resources of the structural funds and the observance of the rule of economic governance. the political balance that emerged from the may elections can be the beginning of a turning point, giving a stronger voice to those who continue to call for a new investment policy and more flexibility in the stability pact, to allow for more growth aimed at creating quality employment. however, it is worth reiterating that the fight against a punitive instrument such as macroeconomic conditionality must not lose its momentum. this is an unfair mechanism, both because it penalizes citizens - the final beneficiaries of cohesion policies - and because it creates an imbalance between the depressed regions of the euro area countries (such as the south of italy) and those of non-euro countries. this imbalance has led to a worrying slowdown in the macroeconomic performance of the former over the last few years. the europe we want is the one which helps to close the gap between the two and contributes to a cohesion which will boost the macroeconomic values of all its regions. that is why we have reiterated our opposition to a constraint which, on the contrary, leads in the opposite direction.
in writing. - i express my strongest opposition to the text. the eu's supervision of member states' budgets and economies also involves this type of policy.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of mr philippe de backer's resolution on the european semester for the coordination of economic policies, because i believe that the eu countries must do more to revive the european economy. at a time of crisis such as the present one, the key word cannot be austerity alone. the rules must certainly be respected, but i think that a certain degree of flexibility is necessary in implementing the specific reform recommendations for those states which want to invest and boost their economies, provided that credible structural reforms have been undertaken.
in writing. - the european commission and the member states have made it a top priority to support the development and growth of smes, which, as a result of the crisis, face extremely high costs and considerable difficulties in accessing finance. it is the commission's responsibility to promote the search for alternative sources of financing, in particular through the structural funds, the european investment bank, the european investment fund and public banks for the development of new jobs. the administrative burdens and red tape imposed on the selfemployed, micro-enterprises and smes must be eliminated, thereby encouraging the creation of new businesses. my approval of mr de backer's report comes from the awareness that in order to promote smart and sustainable economic growth and full employment in the union in line with the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, small and medium-sized enterprises, as the driving force of our society, need our maximum support.
in writing. - the european semester plays a key role in the coordination of economic and financial policies in the member states. m5s tried to put its priorities through amendments in the econ committee, some of which called for consideration of pro-growth measures. but they were, unfortunately, rejected. i am against the economic and fiscal policies pursued by this europe, and i voted against them.
in writing. - by adopting this report, we want to underline the crucial role of the community budget in stimulating sustainable growth, promoting job creation and reducing macroeconomic imbalances in the european union. we believe that an ambitious initiative to stimulate investment across the eu is absolutely necessary to boost and sustain economic recovery; we therefore call on the commission to launch urgently a european investment programme of eur 300 billion, as proposed by jean-claude juncker, in order to help restore european growth in the short term. we therefore hope for the rapid adoption of innovative financial instruments which have the potential to play a key role in supporting both public and private investment in the member states. we call for this new investment policy to be accompanied by a new flexibility of the stability pact so as to allow for more growth, the restoration of the competitiveness of the member states and a reduction in the very high levels of unemployment in europe. finally, we stress the importance of involving the european parliament as far as possible from the outset, in order to avoid - given its growing importance and binding role - a lack of legitimacy in the process of forming political opinion.
in writing. - i vote in favour of the motion for a resolution by the european parliament on the european semester for the coordination of economic policies, on the implementation of the priorities for 2014. after six years of economic crisis and negative growth rates, the economic recovery still appears too fragile. the general increase in unemployment, particularly among young people, continues to pose a serious threat to stability and economic and social convergence in the union. in response to the crisis, some member states adopted austerity policies which have had a negative impact on economic growth and social aspects, increasing inequalities. small/medium-sized enterprises and micro-enterprises face high costs and difficulties in accessing finance, which hamper their ability to grow and create jobs. deep, balanced and socially sustainable structural reforms are needed to generate growth and jobs, as well as policies that promote competitiveness and support investment by improving the functioning of the labour market. conscious of the crucial role of the eu budget in stimulating sustainable growth, i believe that the union must invest much more in research and development, education and resource efficiency.
in writing. - having regard to the importance of the european semester in the coordination of the economic and budgetary policies of the member states and after careful analysis of the text submitted, i voted in favour.
in writing. - having contributed to the drafting of the opinion of the committee on budgets on this report on the priorities of the 2014 european semester, i would like to stress in particular the importance that our budget can have in national economic policies. i think it is important that the european commission should take account in future of the impact of european financing on the macroeconomic dynamics of each member state, given that at present this financing is almost the only public investment devoted to development and employment. as has been said many times in this chamber, we cannot continue to call for austerity if we do not at the same time invest in creating new jobs, new opportunities, especially for young people. i therefore very much hope that the future president-in-office's 300 billion plan, for example, will not be a mirror for the blind, but on the contrary, that it will represent new and fresh resources for job creation and sustainable growth. and at the same time i hope that the eu budget will continue to be supported, especially in the council, as an investment in the future of our companies, our students, our researchers. i hope that europe will once again be a symbol of opportunity and hope, not just of punishment and sanctions.
in writing. - my approval of the report on the european semester for the coordination of economic policies is due to the fact that the report by mr de backer has particularly highlighted some fundamental points such as the help that must be given to growth and employment at a time of stagnation and an unemployment rate that has reached 11.5% in the euro area and 10.2% in the whole of the european union. the report also highlights the importance of the focus on cohesion policy, which represents a major part of investment to help growth (in some important areas such as innovation, research, training), help smes access finance (difficult access to sme finance is a major obstacle to eu growth), and to achieve priority links in the ten-t network. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive on the protection of the environment.
in writing. - i decided to vote against because the european semester is one of the instruments through which the eu exercises its control over the budgets and economies of the member states.
in writing. - i voted against the report because i strongly believe that the european semester should not be a cycle of purely political coordination but a set of well-defined proposals, such as measures to promote growth, jobs and the real economy. it is essential to pursue active employment policies that help to reduce the social inequalities exacerbated by the economic crisis. the m5s has seen its amendments, which proposed priorities and concrete measures, rejected in the econ committee. the text voted today does not therefore reflect our position, which is that we are opposed to the economic and fiscal policies pursued up to now: a policy based on austerity and rigorousness will never allow the implementation of measures to support the real economy and growth. for the reasons i have mentioned, i have therefore not supported the report.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, kobane until a few months ago, this name was just a dot on a map of syria, unknown to most. the lost outpost of a stateless nation, a land, for its misfortune, steeped in oil, on which many have long set their eyes. ironically, the city's arabic name is ain al-arab, the eye of the arabs. the concerned eye of those in qatar and various gulf states who have allowed so-called charities and benefactors to happily line the pockets of isis. perhaps because the example of democratic self-government and the strengthening of women's rights implemented by syrian kurdistan, where many are even soldiers, is an uncomfortable comparison. so it should be eliminated as soon as possible, perhaps for some people to look away while 12-year-old children walk around with kalashnikovs and hand grenades, while terrified women are sold in cages at the market, is all the lesser evil. the hard and indifferent eye of turkey, a candidate country for membership of the union, which has been watching a horror film for far too long. only now has it finally agreed to allow the iraqi kurdish peshmerga to transit to kobane to enable them to defend their beleaguered syrian brothers. but how many lives could have been saved if he'd done it sooner? how many? if he had not deployed tanks, infamous minefields on the border, to prevent the turkish kurds from going to fight against an enemy that disdains all forms of humanity. how many? if he had not bloody repressed the demonstrations against these atrocities, more than 30 people would have died. the distracted and superficial eye of the west still should be ashamed of having forgotten for too long a drama of a region that in kurdish means the west, rojawa. were those men, women and children tortured, raped and beheaded by isis in recent weeks really an acceptable price for not having the courage to punch a big nato member's table? do they not even deserve a resolution in this parliament? the hypocritical eye of the entire international community...
the hypocritical eye of the entire international community, finally, an increasingly immobile and unfeeling eye on one of the many humanitarian catastrophes announced. hypocrisy, to deny it would be hypocrisy! (the speaker agrees to answer a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
answer is "blue cardboard". mr president, in my view, the foreign policy of any candidate country must be absolutely consistent with the foreign policy of the european union. if a country is not willing to intervene and is not interested in avoiding such a humanitarian tragedy, we should be open to any measure that might prevent it from behaving in this way, which is not at all consistent with a bid for membership of the european union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, after not having really gone into the depths of the changes taking place in the arab countries, we are forced to discover that extremist radicalism has hijacked islam and has now become the first enemy of muslims in particular. isis's actions increase confusion in the area and destabilize it more deeply than it does militarily. for this reason it is a serious danger, but we must not consider it a clash of civilizations, but a political project that must be absolutely defeated and must be acted upon on several levels. there is not only the military option, it will only be possible to win this battle if the countries of the region are the main protagonists, starting with turkey, and we must be aware that it will not be possible to achieve results if the indispensable military aspect is not accompanied by an adequate political process that helps the destabilization of the area by trying to overcome positively the articulated map of fears and internal interests of the international coalition.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, if a genocide is taking place in kobane, a short distance from the border of europe, the surreal absence of the high representative here in the chamber raises the question again: where is europe's foreign policy, if at all? turkey has already conditioned its possible direct participation in coalition operations on the establishment of a buffer zone on the border with syria and a no-fly zone which syria has always seen as a threat to its sovereignty. the sunnis fear the pro-iranian shiite militias at least as much as the caliphate warriors, and in this situation it will certainly not be easy to counter the islamic state. the kobane incident reveals the true role of turkey, which has even dug a fence along the border to prevent the passage of refugees' cars from kobane. it has refused to open a humanitarian corridor and has been ambiguous about the passage of jihadists whom erdogan has called tourists, even encouraged to cross the border to bring down the assad regime. are we sure that the real goal of this conflict is the defeat of the caliphate or is it the creation of a new sunni state entity between syria and iraq? are we sure that we can really defeat isis without syria's involvement?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i bring back to you today words of wisdom and youth. these are the words of 17-year-old joshua wong, founder of one of the movements in central hong kong that is defeating repression with a smile. i quote: we must go back to the origins of democracy, of the agora. the square as a place of discussion, of encounter, not of confrontation, and this can only be achieved by giving ourselves a strict and shared code of conduct. violence, even verbal violence, is a call to violence. on the other hand, politeness and fairness inspire respect and solidarity. that's why we don't insult the cops every time a bunch of tease comes in, but we sing happy birthday to the choir. that is why we have succeeded in creating this surreal atmosphere, decriminalising an obviously illegal initiative on the ground and turning it into effective political action. joshua's words moved me, because they are the same ones that we activists of the five star movement carry in all the squares of italy, every day. your peaceful revolution and ours for a transparent democracy, joshua, is a sign of a changing world, in china as in italy. in asia as in europe. together we will fight peacefully for the only right globalization: the right to have rights. don't give up on me, boys!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the leaders of the student movement and the hong kong authorities must return to the negotiating table and try to find a solution to the ongoing protests. a few days ago, the governor of hong kong gave a first sign of openness, saying there is room to make the nominating committee more democratic. the hong kong authorities have also proposed a committee to discuss institutional developments and the possible drafting of a new report on the state of public opinion. these are first steps, positive steps but unfortunately still insufficient. the hong kong authorities need to present young students with a meaningful offer that can justify the end of the protests. the european union must strongly support the movement for democracy, a new world, permeated by democracy, participation and recognition of fundamental rights, begins precisely by listening to students, whether asian or european, and it is time for europe to begin to play the role of a leading actor in the international political arena.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the young people of hong kong, although very young, are much wiser, more organized and more determined than they may seem, and they have won the sympathy of everyone. the attempt to suppress the revolt with force, with batons and tear gas, had the opposite effect, the boomerang effect: it increased popular support and instead of frightening the boys, it invigorated them. these guys who fight can only win, even if they lose. they are carrying out a nonviolent revolution, gandhian, based on social issues of class redistribution. one third of hong kong's population lives in poverty. wages haven't risen in years, big firms are destroying small businesses. a ruthless bastard model that europe likes so much. human rights and economic growth cannot walk separately. they have to find a meeting point or it'll blow! these kids are asking to be able to participate, to engage and to be able to build their future. let us follow their example and support those who fight for equality and a sustainable future, against the social monster created by globalization, consumerism and savage capitalism.
mr president, i thank you and i apologize. a point of order on something that happened to me a few minutes ago outside. i went out and saw this morning a painting that i think is blasphemous where christ is bent obliquely with a naked woman next to him. i asked for this painting to be removed and, receiving no response, i took the painting away to the person in charge. then i went to another place and a security guy stopped me and treated me like a criminal. but in this europe, excuse me, in a month the holy father is coming here, but is it possible to display a blasphemous painting of this kind? it's a disgrace! but who is a catholic like me, must always feel insulted by seeing certain things? and if i go out there and i see that painting again, i'm going to want to take it off again, because my religion forces me to see something that i don't accept. so how do you respect all other religions, i wonder: but if there was a hypothetical muhammad with a naked woman, wouldn't they have said something? the christian religion, catholics, they can't keep seeing things like this. and i just wanted to say that because they treated me like a criminal. and i apologize, mr. president, i just wanted to come in and say this because i have security outside.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the right to believe, to practice and to spread one's faith is a fundamental human right and cannot be subject to any kind of limitation or control. it is not the case in pakistan, where a woman, a mother, is sentenced to death for having spoken of her religion, catholicism, to muslim co-workers and who, faced with the offer of converting to islam in exchange for freedom and life, has courageously refused. the choice of the supreme court is a question of the international credibility of the pakistani judicial system in applying the anti-blasphemy law. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about minorities, but we should be concerned about all citizens. asia bibi is the victim of an unjust law, an unfair trial, and we cannot allow fundamentalism to triumph. europe must play its part.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the death penalty is a medieval, inhuman and illogical instrument. it is absurd that we are still debating this in 2014, when 140 countries around the world have abolished it de facto and de jure. asia bibi, if we don't act now, will be brutally killed by the pakistani state for insulting the islamic prophet muhammad, sentenced to death in 2014 for blasphemy. it's really hard to believe. the story of asia bibi is emblematic of the collective madness that is sneaking around our planet. a woman, a mother of five, beaten, locked up, raped and arrested and then sentenced to death without a shred of evidence, just because she's catholic. what a shame! we should never, ever negotiate any economic agreement with those who still use the death penalty, a half-barbaric and inhuman punishment which is still used in some 60 countries, including pakistan. the right to life is not to be touched!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the latest amnesty international report reveals further disturbing aspects of the appalling terrorist activity carried out by the islamic state, the jihadist movement which unfortunately also seems to attract too many foreign volunteers at the moment. the european union has a duty to help the countries of the region to develop their economic and social cohesion. this is perhaps because isis considers itself a state and not a movement. a manipulated and corrupt idea of the state that wants to destroy the states that actually exist. it should be made clear that isis is not a state, there is no personal, spatial or organizational element. isis has no people, no territory and no sovereignty. isis is just a machine of death, of terror but also of propaganda. it publishes hollywood-style videos on the internet and attracts all too easily influenced young europeans. this too must be stigmatized and stopped. europe must be involved because when the local objectives are achieved, the terrorists will move their action here to us. the jihadists have all the time they want, because they think in terms of generations.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the isis offensive is the most terrible challenge to the west, to its principles, to its values, to all the good that the european union has done. however, little has been done so far in concrete terms, except to deal with the emergency and the emotional and emotional wave represented by the horrible death sentences carried out in public, using the media. let us look at reality with a clear-eyed eye, and stand together, with conviction and unity, to face the challenge to our security. above all, a european strategy must be developed to combat the phenomenon of the growing recruitment of european jihadists, which is worrying precisely because they are among us and are ready to fight us from within, but above all, let us stop, let us stop superimposing this problem on the very painful problem of immigration, by exploiting and culpably generalizing a tragedy and tens of thousands of deaths, which we thus kill twice.
member of the commission. - mr president, we should all admit that we are facing a very complex problem and that there are no easy answers or solutions here. it is also, as has been said, not a new phenomenon. we have all seen the horrors that are committed in syria and iraq by isis and other groups. decapitation, rape and murder of innocent civilians: children, women, men, journalists, health workers. this is terrorism and barbarism. it is clear that it has nothing to do with islam, and a huge majority of muslims all over the world are condemning it. but we do have europeans travelling to fight with these groups and this is a problem. they commit terrible acts there and they can do us a lot of harm when and if they come home – and by the way there are no indications whatsoever that they come to europe as asylum seekers. this is false. we need to create police cooperation, intelligence sharing and in fact we are setting up different platforms where they can share information. from what i hear this is going well, especially amongst the most concerned eight or nine states, but more and more countries in the european union are concerned about this right now. it would be helpful to have a pnr and i think a system could be set up that is robust when it comes to data protection but still serves its purpose. we can use sis and border control measures much more efficiently. they allow for a lot of things to be done today, and member states should make full use of them. we also need to cooperate more on the preventive side. local communities, religious leaders, teachers, civil society can play a very important role at local level to identify young people, young men – and women: increasingly there are also young girls travelling to fight – to identify them and prevent them from going when it is possible. we have more than 1 000 experts from all over europe connected to the ran network, the radicalisation awareness network, and they can help member states with advice, setting up local action plans, setting up exit programmes, and advising on how to put up centres where worried families can call: where do i call if i am worried that my son or my brother is planning to go away? there have to be structures from this and we can share a lot of information and good practices here. of course, integration and social exclusion need to be given further attention here so we can combat exclusion and ensure that european citizens do not feel the need to leave. we also need, of course, to respect human rights and avoid stigmatisation of certain groups. so we need to act on several fronts, but it would be a severe mistake not to admit that this is a very serious phenomenon.
president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, very few concluding remarks. first of all, to tell parliament that the council is counting on parliament's support in its efforts to prevent young people leaving europe to join terrorist groups in syria and iraq, to ensure that we can identify foreign fighters who intend to attack our societies and to bring to justice those who have broken our laws. we do so while at the same time safeguarding and defending our common values and the fundamental rights, freedom of movement and freedom of expression, which are so dear to us. we are making progress in several areas and we hope that we can say the same soon - i will return to a point i raised in my introductory speech - that we can say the same about the progress of the european union's pnr file with the support of parliament.
the debate is closed.
the next item is the council statement on the joint police operation mos maiorum.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the police approach of operation mos maiorum to the problems of immigration, based solely on the aspect of combating crime that exploits human trafficking, unleashed by concrete interventions in the countries of origin and transit, will not stop the flight, even at the cost of life, from conflict, persecution and poverty of the countries bordering the european union. the phenomenon of irregular migration to europe is also fuelled by the absence of legal entry channels and the dublin regulation, which imposes too heavy a burden on those countries that are more prone to the migration emergency. the dublin system leads asylum seekers to rely on illegal networks to reach their desired european destinations, even when they would qualify for international protection in any member state, since they cannot choose the state where to apply for international protection. semi-colonial exploitation and war industries that directly or indirectly contribute to conflict and misery, do the rest. the border states and the countries at the entrance to europe, such as italy or greece, are faced with a structural emergency which requires enormous expenditure of resources and which, we repeat, cannot be contained by an exceptional police operation such as 'mos maiorum'. this operation, however, risks unintentionally fuelling the business of immigrant reception and detention centres, which are increasingly the focus of the interests of organised crime and unscrupulous businessmen. i would like to stress that this is a business that must be kept under close watch, also because it feeds on the skin of human beings, migrants, who are often at risk of being victims of violations of their fundamental rights. in the end, we believe that 'mos maiorum' is likely to be a mere media operation, made up of numbers and statistics to feed public opinion, which will not help to solve the problems of irregular immigration and whose costs will once again be borne by the taxpayers of the member states. i would therefore ask whether the council really believes that an identification and filing operation can contribute to the fight against trafficking in human beings? what if, with intellectual honesty, it is not more appropriate to provide for ex ante solutions, by revising the dublin regulation, filling the regulatory gap and providing for legal channels of access to the european union?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, why is the italian presidency proposing this programme? it's very simple, because the other countries are alarmed. because the aftermath of mare nostrum, which opened the doors to 140,000 people, at least half of whom have not been traced, has filled europe with new illegal immigrants. europe is worried. it is right to identify those who have entered europe illegally, but here in the mos maiorum programme neither the ways nor the means are specifically indicated, and so how will this action be taken? very difficult, very problematic. i'd say that's a lot of propaganda. it is grotesque that the european union, after having opened its doors to mass immigration, now presents us with a programme of police control when hundreds of thousands of illegal immigrants have entered. why don't we go tell the citizens: that through mare nostrum at least 70,000 of the 140,000 who entered last year were not traced. we do not know who they are, where they come from, what their criminal records are and even the hygiene and sanitary conditions, in the midst of the ebola tragedy, which should also concern us about the conditions of those who have entered, even the illegal immigrants themselves. so italy proposes a 10-day program where every day they come in and go out and we don't know who they are. italy receives thousands of illegal immigrants every day, but has not been able to track down those who have landed and are taken by italian navy ships and are taken to three-star hotels, unless they refuse to accept them. it's pure propaganda and it's very serious especially with the ebola crisis and the alert.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i cannot help but begin by trying to make it clear, in my view, how serious it is that in this house we can hear such populist words from mr borghezio about wrong associations, and in my view such speeches should not exist in this parliament, because they are speeches which accentuate what discrimination is, what racism is and increase fear within the population by creating false associations. so i am withdrawing and asking that such words should never be uttered in this chamber, because this is a chamber of democracy. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the purpose of 'mos maiorum' - the weakening of the organizational capacity of organized crime and the encouragement of illegal immigration - has also been very clearly stated in this debate. this is a well-established practice, as we have just heard, in the attempt to monitor, collect and analyse information on migration movements with the ultimate aim of fighting traffickers. i do not want to dwell on this, but i would like to emphasize my concerns about the very reason why the union is taking measures such as 'mos maiorum', a deployment of 18 000 law enforcement officers, a gigantic police operation to stop, control, and identify the largest number of migrants on european territory. but such a deployment is really needed for a once-in-a-lifetime fight against traffickers. the risk that these operations are being carried out on the basis of a presumption of guilt or the dangerousness of the migrants is high, as is the risk of undermining the fundamental principle of the free movement of persons within the schengen area. the external borders of the european union are the responsibility of all its member states, in accordance with the principle of solidarity, and the protection of those seeking asylum here on the basis of values we share cannot be a matter for individual governments. we will assess, and i ask that the results of this operation be carefully assessed, and in this connection i invite the council to present and share them with this parliament. the operation 'mos maiorum' must give rise to new thinking on new policies which do not merely deal with the emergency of flows but which must lead to a single policy of solidarity, reception and integration.
i am not convinced by minister della vedova, i am not convinced by the absurd word "mos maiorum". the operation was proposed by the italian presidency to the european partners on 10 july in a council of ministers of the interior, the purpose of the operation being to eradicate the smuggling of migrants. the result, if we have any imagination, is that fugitives are being driven more than ever into addiction by criminal networks. when migrants are identified, profiled, i don't know how not to talk about raids. we have learned in the meantime that italian law enforcement agencies are being asked, in similar operations, to identify undocumented migrants by force. circular notices of information in our possession, from the ministry of the interior, order the italian police to proceed: "to take photographs and fingerprints, including the use of force if necessary". the 'mos maiorum' therefore forms part of a systemic violence which i call on the council and the italian presidency to account for.
answer to a blue-card question. i thank you for giving me the opportunity to say that i have documents in hand and i would like to ask the commission whether it is appropriate to initiate infringement proceedings against transactions of this kind and i will provide the documents i have mentioned.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we know little or nothing about operation mos maiorum. what we do know is rather worrying, starting with the name, "mos maiorum", which evokes the idea of superiority, of the roman virtue to be applied to those who come from outside, to races considered inferior. as soon as we learned of the operation, i and some colleagues put a question to the council to ask for clarification: the commission has also been asked to provide more clarity on the aims and procedures of this operation, which is expected to involve some 18,000 police officers. it is not clear, and that is what i am asking you to tell parliament, what the implication of frontex will be, which has been confused. it is unclear what will happen to the people identified and interrogated shortly afterwards. it is not clear what guarantees are there for their fundamental rights, including the right to seek asylum. it is an operation that seems to be the result of the usual security logic which in recent years has not only led to no results but has made the situation worse, often resulting in open violations of human rights and the prohibition of collective expulsions enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights of the union and other conventions. a logic that tends to criminalize the victims rather than punish the perpetrators. we must not forget that the majority of people travelling to europe are now fleeing from theatres of war, torture and discrimination of all kinds, and that it is international law that establishes our legal, if not moral, duty to offer international protection. in europe, we have a cemetery in common with mos maiorum. this is what our mediterranean sea, which is a european sea, has become. but how long will it take before we have a real common european asylum policy? and to see europe focus not only on tackling illegal immigration, as it has done so far, but also on creating legal pathways? there is only one way to fight traffickers and organised crime, not by rounding up migrants in europe and not by backing down the line of action as will happen with triton from 172 miles to only 30 miles from italian territorial waters, if mare nostrum is abandoned. the only way to counter the smugglers is to prevent migrants from ending up in their hands, by anticipating our intervention, for example by opening humanitarian channels for the legal and protected arrival of refugees or at least safe ports where they can seek asylum in the transit countries with the involvement of international organizations. and if we really want to tackle the root of the problem, europe should take on the task of ruthlessly combating global inequalities, in a world where 70% of resources are in the hands of 30% of the population and we are part of that 30%, i wonder how we can be surprised by the flows of migrants.
it's a blue-card question. i'm not sure what it is. i would like to ask the honourable member whether she has read the resolution of the council of ministers of the interior announcing this operation 'mos maiorum'. we do not need to wait until december, it is very clear what is written, it is not an anti-mafia operation, it is an operation in which migrants and fugitives are sought, identified, profiled. i'm just asking if you've read the text or if you're waiting until december to know it?
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, as the council document of 10 july last shows, and as minister della vedova has reiterated today, the objectives of the 'mos maiorum' operations are twofold: to weaken the role of organised crime in illegal immigration and to gather information on the routes and modus operandi of criminal networks. it is precisely because of the importance of these objectives that we must avoid the risk that these operations end up harming those, often minors, who have not yet formalised their asylum application and thus the victims rather than the perpetrators of trafficking in human beings. i therefore believe that operations of this kind require transparent planning, with greater involvement of parliament, and also require a proper system of guarantees on respect for fundamental rights, if they are to really pursue the primary objective of combating organised crime in illegal immigration. but i believe that it is now essential, above all, to provide for measures at european level to allow regular entry, that is, legal immigration into the european union, in order to manage the phenomenon of migration.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i share many of the criticisms, the doubts and the suggestions made by my colleagues kyenge, schlein, chinnici and then giuffrida. this operation, despite its good intentions, is likely to have very different outcomes. it is good to know more about this phenomenon of migration, its sex, its origins and its methods, it is good to have serious and effective policies, it is good to fight the crime of traffickers in these networks, but the risk is that everything will end up in a large police operation which leaves more gaps than solutions to the problems, with all the risks that were mentioned of making victims twice victims, starting with minors, this call is very appropriate. unaccompanied minors, for whom no one is really making an effective policy. but i would like to mention two aspects to put it in a positive light: the first is, if 25 countries get together, get together on a somewhat limited aspect of migration policy, perhaps we can think of a desire to make a real european migration policy. secondly, very briefly, we can hope that there is courage, foresight, common sense, simply for europe of a forward-looking policy that tackles the black hole in libya, that creates that humanitarian corridor, landing there, not just patrolling the coasts, but landing in the country where it is possible to land to really create that preventive action that all my colleagues were talking about.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the details of operation mos maiorum were announced on 3 october, when 366 dead migrants were commemorated in lampedusa. since then, however, more than 4,000 people have died at sea in a year and nothing has been done to stop the slaughter, and after the october 3rd "mos maiorum" the migrants seem to have become enemies again, amid the alarms of associations and networks that protect the rights of those who just want to escape from wars and misery. not only that, but in november triton will be launched, but it will not include the expertise of mare nostrum, which has saved hundreds of thousands of lives, nor will it cover its journey of action. it means this is the tragic ending as predictable - that the numbers of the slaughter will probably increase. nor will a gigantic police operation in one week put an end to the criminal business of speculating on immigrants, and so it is time for europe to finally take responsibility. italy must not be left alone, it must take the legal and humanitarian path to fulfil a duty of solidarity. in a word: the humanitarian corridor is the way to go.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the purpose of the operation 'mos maiorum' launched by the italian presidency and planned by sisde from 13 to 26 october is to stop illegal immigrants, to combat organised crime and to collect information for investigative and intelligence purposes. according to the document adopted by the council, the operation is being carried out in close cooperation with frontex, although frontex has stated that it had no role in the planning and implementation of the operation. closer cooperation with frontex would perhaps have been desirable. the commission has already taken a number of measures to help the victims of the earthquake in the mediterranean, and it is not surprising that the commission has taken a number of measures to help the victims of the earthquake in the mediterranean. europe cannot continue to deal with the problem of immigration through police operations alone. the european union cannot turn a blind eye to the tragedy and the death of so many people; it must have a migration policy that is consistent with its founding values and based on the principles of solidarity and welcome.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, as my colleagues have said before, i am saddened to be speaking to such an empty house, and this is not the first time. i have been here for a few months and i have learned that for the sixth consecutive year the european parliament has proposed in the first instance to postpone the granting of discharge to the council. the council does not fundamentally recognise the role of parliament as the final referent for discharge and a whole process has been set in motion with various rapporteurs or legal experts trying to understand who is right between the parties. i do not want to take an open stance in this power game, because i consider it an insult to the taxpayers, the citizens of europe, who want the utmost cooperation between the actors of the institutions. i think that, as a team, everyone should cooperate to the best of their ability to achieve the maximum, and therefore parliament is in a sense right to protest by not granting discharge, since the request to the council does not seem to me to be something so utopian. i am aware, unfortunately, that this game between the institutional actors is played out in every discussion. in this case and in the trilogues it is shown that the european project is perhaps a little too ambitious and slow in moving forward. on the one hand we have the heads of state who are strongly pro-european in the election campaign and are pushing for all this to exist, for us to be uniform under one flag, but then the unification processes encounter problems and not insignificant contradictions. we may be close as borders, but we have too many economic differences, too many cultural differences that have their roots in centuries and history and national interests that are more or less just to defend and protect. and then there are those powers of interest, the various lobbies and globalisation with its greed that so easily penetrates the hearts of those who should make politics in a more just way, protecting the weak and solidarity, delegated by such a high honor of representation elected by the people. in short, this little battle of principle between parliament and the council is the reason for the failure of this institution, the excessive differences and the pressure applied without taking into account the damage it causes to those outside who dream of a true union of peoples, in the name of fraternity, solidarity and sustainability.
madam president, i would like to take this opportunity to draw attention to the developments in the czech republic in the area of consumer protection in the telecommunications market. the czech parliament has adopted an amendment to the electronic communications act, which will make the position of contracting parties, both consumers and traders, as well as small entrepreneurs, worse. personally, i consider the most serious aspect to be that the right of all customers to withdraw from a subscription contract will be impaired if the operator unilaterally changes the essential elements of the contract. these requirements will be determined by the operator in the future, not by the law. why do i say that? according to a number of experts, such legislation may be contrary to the content of the universal service directive. i therefore thought it appropriate to raise this issue here in the european parliament and at the same time i would like to state that i will be addressing a written question to the commission to say whether or not the amendment is contrary to the directive.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i come from italy, and in particular from a region which includes sicily and sardinia, where the youth unemployment rate has reached almost 60%, compared with an already high national rate of 44%, with dramatic human and economic consequences. in june 2013, the council decided that the european union would mobilise all available instruments to support youth employment. i am therefore bound to ask myself and to ask this parliament, the commission and the council whether the lack of results is due to the fact that not all the available instruments have been really mobilised or to the fact that these instruments, even if fully utilised, are not sufficient. tackling unemployment in europe must be the priority for the coming years, both for the states and for the european institutions which have the task of charting the course for economic recovery, including by granting flexibility to the member states. finally, i hope that the 300 billion announced by mr juncker will be used for employment.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, since the 1950s nato has turned sardinia into a large area of essential military services, where all kinds of exercises take place. they use this region as a fuel depot, as a testing ground, as a training ground and as a dumping ground. they damaged the territory and the archaeological sites that were part of it. they have irreparably damaged the ancient nuraghes, which are recognized by unesco as a world heritage site. there is also a very high risk that these experimental sites will also harm human health. there's a risk of fine dust, thorium, uranium 238 and the high number of malformations and leukemia in the area is worrying. by the time they're done experimenting, it'll be so polluted it'll be impossible to live in. all this makes it no longer possible to postpone the mapping of the areas at risk, a rehabilitation plan to be adopted. i am asking for the help of the european union.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the sakharov prize for freedom of thought is intended to honour outstanding individuals who have distinguished themselves in the fight against fanaticism and oppression, such as andrei sakharov. russian human rights organization memorial, which denounces political repression in the countries of the former soviet union, won the prize in 2009. the russian ministry of justice has asked the supreme court to liquidate the historic ngo, which was nominated for the nobel peace prize last year. officially the reasons are 'technical' and concern the organizational structure of the organization, but these seem to be pretexted and unfounded excuses. memorial is in danger of closing today as a result of the law on foreign agents, a law under which ngos that receive funding from abroad and are active in the public sphere will have to register in a special register, the register of foreign agents, to be authorized. memorial has just come under fire from pro-government broadcaster ntv who accused it of supporting extremists and terrorists. this is a very serious attack on civil society. the european union cannot remain silent in the face of these totally undemocratic actions.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i see that your nightmare is vladimir putin, and i also understand that you think about where you sit. so why don't we talk about the cluster bombs that ukraine has dropped on russian minorities? why, for example, do we not say that europe's foreign policy is essentially made by nato, not by europe! why not say that russia is doing well economically and europe is continuing to do worse? why do we not say that unemployment in europe is getting worse, there are no jobs, businesses are closing, there are so many bankruptcies, and yet things are working better in other parts of the world? i would also like to remind you today that it is the birthday of a moro who is in india, salvatore girone. if instead of being kidnapped by the indians, he was kidnapped by the russians, there'd be a mess in here. but since they are indians, be silent and mute, because you are strong with the weak and the weak with the strong! this is your system! so i say to you, you have to be more courageous and not look at putin as an enemy. (the president agreed to answer a question on the blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a blue-card question. you got it right, that's what i'm saying. the european union is the example of the opposite. that is what i said and that is what i insist on. for me, putin is a great leader, today europe is close to africa even for illegal immigrants, thanks to you. and human rights try to ask with cluster bombs what the ukrainians did to the russian minorities. aren't those human rights? those are not human rights, throwing bombs at defenseless people, those are not human rights. shame on you!
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, if the strength of the rule of law in a country were proportional to the quantity of raw materials, uzbekistan would be a very fortunate country. the flagship of the economy is cotton production second only to that of the united states, but based on the exploitation of nearly a million children each year. protesting in this country is a crime, not a right. according to reports by amnesty international and human rights watch, independent international inspectors are completely barred from entering uzbek prisons, and political dissidents, defined as enemies of the state, are reportedly subjected to unspeakable torture: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the use of plastic bags in the transport of dangerous goods. reporting torture can cost a lot of money, even a career. the former british ambassador to uzbekistan, craig murray, knows this well, having discovered that two dead opponents had been boiled alive. in 2005, there was the andijan massacre. sanctions were imposed that worked, prisoners were released, but they were removed. how is it that we always manage to do the opposite of what is right? let's take responsibility for this!
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, once again we find ourselves as the european union faced with countries whose development we want to support, and once again we find that human rights, democracy and freedom are not being respected. despite the denials of the uzbek authorities, the rule of law in uzbekistan after the 2005 massacre is in a bad state, dozens of prisoners are in prison for political reasons, the authorities are turning a blind eye. we must emphasize very strongly that if these violations are not stopped immediately, this will have negative consequences in the negotiations between uzbekistan and europe on the partnership and cooperation agreements. i stress and repeat, we must say this with great energy.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it is almost 10 years since the massacre of hundreds of peaceful citizens, including women and children, by the uzbek security forces. it has been almost 10 years since the andijan massacre and the perpetrators of that massacre still enjoy total impunity. in the asian country, one of the poorest in the world, activists, journalists and lawyers are systematically silenced by torture and violence on a large scale. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of the european union. a hard-hitting report from 2009 to 2011 released today by human rights watch, distills data and testimony that violations are systematic and torture a chronic problem in a country where un observers have been banned for more than a decade and investigations do not exist. the picture is among the most alarming in the world and the country can slip into a very dangerous isolation while torture remains routine by the government that continues to lie. the european union must urge the entire international community to reconsider its commitment to a concrete improvement in the human rights situation in uzbekistan.
i have to say, madam president, i wonder what this has to do with the urgent matters. if i read the resolution, we are talking about things that happened ten years ago. i know uzbekistan quite well and i think that no one doubts that there are human rights problems there. but it would also be right if we acknowledged in this resolution that the uzbek government is indeed making efforts to make progress on many issues. for example, it is the only country, or one of the few countries in the region, that no longer has the death penalty. even the un recognizes that there is progress on the issue of child labor. it is trying to build a civil society there, despite a problematic neighbourhood with afghanistan. i think we should be critical of the country, but we should also try to move forward together with the uzbek government. that's more than copying and pasting a report from an ngo. i do not think that is worthy of a parliament.
, in writing. 100,000 dead in 6 years, 250 mass graves full of bodies found in the last 2 years alone and about 27,000 disappeared since the beginning of the war on the drug cartels. it's not a war between continents, i'm talking about the great mexico, a country full of contradictions, bent by drug trafficking, corruption and anarchy. today we are called upon to give a voice above all to the farming parents of the poor state of guerrero, who, amidst a thousand difficulties, amidst poverty and great social injustices, have for some time now lost the most precious thing their children had! after the tlatelolco massacre in 1968, when the army killed over 300 demonstrators of the student movement in mexico city, we are now faced with the disappearance of 43 students, enrolled in one of the universities that symbolized the revolutionary and civil struggle. when thousands of students and political dissidents in argentina embarked on the vuelos de la muerte, western public opinion tended to deny reality, even though years later they would be universally called "desaparecidos". the european union must do everything in its power to demand a firm and concrete commitment from the mexican authorities, possibly by threatening trade sanctions.
in writing. - the renewal of trade preferences for products from ukraine is a measure which has the potential to harm many economic sectors in our country and that is why i voted against its adoption.
in writing. - i voted against it. politically incorrect and damaging to the italian economy. i would have preferred that the measure had been subject to the wto clearance as was done for trade preferences to pakistan. the eu's anti-russian obsession is not to be shared.
in writing. - the recent political crisis in ukraine is one of the eu's priority issues in recent months. the proposal which has been voted on and which i have voted for is part of a package of proposals to provide economic and financial support to ukraine and to support the economic stabilisation and structural reform programme of the country. these objectives may also be achieved by the reduction or temporary elimination of customs duties on the basis of a list of concessions contained in an annex to the eu-ukraine association agreement. this is not only an expression of eu solidarity with the ukrainian people, but also demonstrates that the eu is determined to take immediate action to improve the situation in its eastern neighbours and that it has the capacity to do so.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on customs duties on goods from ukraine, because i believe that this resolution is of enormous geopolitical importance, as it is crucial for the peace process in ukraine, which has been torn apart by war and external threats for months, for the establishment of a democratic government. i think it is right that the european union has committed itself to the republic of ukraine to extend the tariff concessions for goods from ukraine until 31 december 2015, when the association agreement with the related obligations of ukraine will enter into force. i believe that the eu should expand its economic and trade partnership agreements with new countries, without neglecting the political and economic importance of the russian federation to the european union.
in writing. - regulation (eu) no 374/2014 on the reduction or elimination of customs duties on goods originating in ukraine was to apply until the entry into force or provisional application of the association agreement and no later than 1 november 2014. on 12 september 2014, the european union agreed to propose to the eu member states, as part of a comprehensive peace process in ukraine, to extend the provisional application of the comprehensive and deep free trade agreement until 31 december 2015, while maintaining autonomous eu trade measures in favour of ukraine during that period. since the regulation provides for unilateral preferences which will cost the community budget eur 487 million, and given the serious situation the ukrainians are in, i think the best vote is abstention.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the amendment to the regulation on customs duties on goods from ukraine which extends for a further year the trade preferences already in force with regard to kiev. the regulation has the important objective of ensuring continuity and certainty in our bilateral trade relations at a very delicate political stage and with a view to the full implementation of the dcfta, an important pillar of the wider association agreement with ukraine recently concluded. i think it is particularly significant that - also in this 'bridge' regulation - a clause on respect for human rights, the rule of law and the principle of sovereignty and territorial integrity is included, which is binding for the eu to grant trade preferences. it is also important that the regulation should pay particular attention to the most sensitive products, such as those of the eu agricultural and agro-industrial sector, through specific tariff quotas: the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the common fisheries policy. the adoption of this regulation will therefore enable us to take another step together in the difficult process of rapprochement between the european union and ukraine.
in writing. - i am convinced that i shall vote against the renewal of trade preferences for products from ukraine. the measure has been subject to political pressure which does not take account of technical and commercial aspects.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr gabrielius landsbergis's proposal because i believe it is important to support ukraine in view of the extreme difficulties it is experiencing, not only politically but also economically. this eu decision, which will be substantiated by the reduction or elimination of customs duties, shows how there is concrete action that is explicit through the adoption of immediate measures with the aim of improving the conditions of the non-european countries close to the eu.
in writing. - my decision to vote in favour of mr sulin's report is based on the awareness that we must support ukraine in its extremely difficult political, economic and social situation, while at the same time strengthening the certainty of trading conditions for economic operators. a swift and timely approval by the european parliament of the commission's proposal for the renewal of the atm regulation for ukraine will prove that the eu is willing to act swiftly and decisively to honour its political commitments.
in writing. - as already explained during the debate on this subject in the plenary, granting unilateral tariff preferences to ukraine is undoubtedly a clear political signal to russia, but it must not contribute to further impoverishing our producers and, in particular, farmers. these preferences will in fact weigh eur 487 million on the community budget, with direct consequences for the agricultural sector, especially maize and flour, where ukrainian exports account for more than 60% and where the reduction of duties will entail losses that are not easily recoverable. i shall abstain on these grounds.
in writing. - timeliness is needed to avoid a regulatory vacuum with regard to the removal of customs duties on imports from ukraine. we believe that the interests of trade policy must be consistent with those of foreign policy and that at this stage it is necessary to send a strong signal to a people in difficulty. this will enable ukrainian producers to divert their trade to the european market and encourage them to adapt to community standards. we also welcome the inclusion of article 2, which reaffirms the obligation to respect fundamental freedoms, the inviolability of borders and the fight against the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. finally, in the agricultural and agro-industrial sectors, protection levels remain higher than in other sectors, with quotas and minimum prices that do not distort the competitiveness of local products. i am voting for this resolution in the hope that this extension can be seen as an act of goodwill on the part of the eu and an incentive to bring the crisis to an end as soon as possible, not as a waste of time or a mere habit, and we also hope that the actual trade treaty will enter into force no later than 1 january 2016.
in writing. - in order to help ukraine in this difficult transition period, it was right to extend the application of eu regulation no 374/2014 on the reduction or elimination of customs duties on goods originating in ukraine until 31 december 2015, i.e. until the date of entry into force of the eu-ukraine comprehensive association and free trade agreement. this ensures that ukraine maintains the existing conditions for access to the eu market and avoids a possible temporary interruption of exports to the eu, which could have created further difficulties for ukraine at a very sensitive political and economic stage for the country.
in writing. - i have decided to vote against the renewal of trade preferences for products from ukraine. the measure was taken too hastily and i had asked and obtained from the inta committee that the simplified procedure be avoided. i also proposed that the measure be submitted to the wto clearance procedure, as was done for trade preferences to pakistan.
in writing. - i voted against the text and therefore in favour of granting discharge to the office of the body of european regulators for electronic communications.
in writing. i voted to grant the landfill.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for a decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the office of the body of european regulators for electronic communications for the financial year 2012, and i think that a number of points should be made: on the procedural side, i welcome the fact that the office has introduced clear procedures and detailed workflows and steps in its financial and accounting manuals for use by all financial actors; i believe, however, that there is still room for improvement in terms of financial and budgetary management and i call on the office to step up its budgetary control efforts in the future; on the prevention and management of conflicts of interest and transparency, notes that the annual declarations of interest made by the board of regulators, the management board and the administrative director of the office have been made available through special sections of the office's public register of documents, but also that the office has not planned a review of its current policy on conflicts of interest; finally, the office's recent initiatives to improve communication with european citizens are to be welcomed.
in writing. - i support mr sarvamaa's report on the importance of sound, correct and transparent financial management of the european institutions, and in this case of berec. finally, the shortcomings relating to the legality and regularity of the office's operations were addressed by introducing measures to improve the rates of budget implementation, control and monitoring, to address commitments and carry-overs, and to recruit and train staff. i am therefore pleased with the results achieved also in terms of improving communication with european citizens about the impact of the work of this office on them.
in writing. - i vote against the report on the discharge to berec. in the first instance, in april, the discharge was postponed both because of the level of carry-overs of appropriations committed to 2013 of eur 611 000, indicative of difficulties in the planning of financial activities, and because the recruitment procedures examined had revealed significant deficiencies concerning transparency. there were also doubts regarding limited information on the conflict of interest policy, without confirmation of the possible implementation of an appropriate code of conduct. in the meantime, the rate of cancellation of the appropriations carried over to the 2013 financial year was 28%, although this was down on the previous year's rate of 45%. it is important to stress the need for strict discipline in relation to the eu's decentralised agencies.
in writing. - i am in favour of the granting of discharge to the body of european regulators for electronic communications
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for a decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the office of the body of european regulators for electronic communications for the financial year 2012. i would like to congratulate the office on its recent achievements in improving communication with european citizens.
in writing. - last march, the committee on budgetary control pointed out that there were some gaps in the documents submitted by the body of european regulators for electronic communications as justification for the management of the funds allocated to it for 2012. the observatory was asked to improve its management and planning capabilities by improving its budgetary control activities and by optimising its procurement and recruitment procedures. today, a few months later, i think that the agency has made up for its previous shortcomings by presenting a fairly satisfactory budgetary documentation. it is for these reasons that i have decided to vote in favour of the sarvamaa report, a text which sets out in detail the improvements made by the observatory, with the aim of widening the margins of transparency in its accounting activities.
in writing. - following the report by mr sarvamaa, i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the office of the body of european regulators for electronic communications for the financial year 2012, also on the basis of the court of auditors' report on the office's annual accounts. it is noted that the office has introduced clear procedures and detailed workflows in its accounts and that the rate of implementation of the budget and the rate of implementation of payment appropriations are improving compared to the results of the previous year.
in writing. - parliament had postponed in april the granting of discharge for the 2012 budget of the riga-based horeco. the reasons for this include the difficulty of putting the authority's activities into practice, the lack of recruitment procedures and the scope for improvement in public procurement procedures. loreche had undertaken to find solutions to all the problems and, in view of the measures taken, also following the positive assessment of the committee on budgetary control, which decided to grant discharge, i voted in favour.
in writing. - i voted against the report because, although there is some effort on the part of berec, absolute rigor is needed in relation to the decentralised eu agencies. one of the reasons for the postponement of the discharge was the recruitment procedures which revealed significant deficiencies in transparency. to this problem, doubts were also added regarding limited information on the conflict of interest policy, without confirmation of the possible implementation of an appropriate code of conduct. berec has therefore sought to introduce improvements to its current recruitment procedures in recent months in order to respond to the discharge authority's requests for increased transparency, but has not planned to review its current conflict of interest policy, considering it consistent with the commission's guidelines on the prevention and management of conflicts of interest in eu decentralised agencies. for the reasons i have mentioned, i did not support the report.
in writing. - the european parliament exercises ex post democratic control over the way the union's budget is used, thanks to the discharge procedure. i voted for this report and therefore against the adoption of the council's budget because this institution has for too many years refused to provide the information necessary to enable the citizens, through their representatives in parliament, to control its expenditure.
in writing. - today i voted in favour of the position of the committee on budgetary control rejecting the discharge to the secretary-general of the council for the implementation of the budget of the european council and of the council for the financial year 2012. all the community institutions should be transparent and fully accountable to the citizens of the union for the funds entrusted to them as institutions of the european union, and i think that the council has not been sufficiently transparent. this applies all the more to the european council and the council, which should be subject to democratic accountability towards the citizens of the union since they are beneficiaries of the general budget of the european union. however, the discharge to the council in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european council and of the council for the financial year 2012 is characterised by a lack of information and transparency. these shortcomings have led me to refuse to discharge the council.
in writing. - on 5 february, the council formulated its recommendations on the discharge to be given to the commission in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2012. parliament has deferred discharge to section ii - european council and council. finally, on 23 september 2014, the committee on budgetary control unanimously rejected the discharge on the grounds of lack of cooperation by the council, lack of transparency on the various costs. as a result, we are unable to control expenditure.
in writing. - having regard to the fact that parliament is the only european institution directly elected by the citizens, i am voting in favour of the second report on the discharge for the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2012. the report, in addition to raising the issue of administrative transparency, draws the council's attention to the need to make the costs of the europa and residence palace buildings transparent. the report therefore asks that the council not be given discharge.
in writing. - i vote against the discharge to the european council and the council.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mr deutsch because, like him and the other members of the committee on budgetary control (who voted unanimously in favour of the report), i believe that the council has a duty to cooperate responsibly with the european parliament in order to ensure effective and transparent budgetary control. i therefore share the decision to refuse discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european council and the council for the financial year 2012, on the assumption that the european institutions should not miss any opportunity to demonstrate a fully democratic attitude. i therefore regret the many obstacles encountered in the discharge procedures, which are generally due to a lack of cooperation on the part of the council. i am disappointed that the latter has on several occasions refused to submit the documents requested to this parliament, which shares the budgetary authority with it. i therefore call on the council to stop confusing the request for information on its accounting activities, which is entirely plausible and in line with the european parliament's powers, with an attempt to override the institution. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval, and the council will then be able to take a decision on the matter. (the president declared the vote to be taken as scheduled)
in writing. - failure by the council to report to the european parliament jeopardises, first of all, the right of the citizens of the union to information and transparency about the funds entrusted to it as an institution of the union; the european parliament has also been a key player in the fight against racism and xenophobia. since all the institutions should cooperate to ensure the smooth functioning of the discharge procedure, my vote in favour of this report is an invitation to the council to give priority to the right of citizens to be fully informed and to recognise the right of the european parliament to be informed.
in writing. - i have followed closely the report by mr deutsch and the decision of the committee on budgetary control of 23 september last, where it unanimously refused to grant discharge. i agree with the motion for a resolution voted by the committee on transport and tourism, because we need more cooperation between parliament and the council (which is not optimal at the moment) and, as has been pointed out on several occasions, we need to establish a more collaborative and joint working procedure between the two bodies. it is therefore absolutely necessary to find a modus vivendi in agreement between parliament and the council on the discharge procedure.
in writing. - the council and the european council have not been given a discharge since 2011. the report also calls for the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the council's powers are not undermined by the council's failure to act. that is why i voted in favour of the report which proposes to reject the discharge.
in writing. - parliament is the only european institution directly elected by the citizens. the need for transparent administrative management of the institutions is fulfilled by the discharge procedure: the council's continued refusal to provide parliament with the necessary documents is a refusal to give citizens the right to monitor the proper administration of european funds and poses a serious problem for democracy. the council seems to want to fight for power in order to maintain its supremacy over parliament, without taking into account the right of european citizens to transparent information. the difficulties encountered in the discharge procedures for the 2007-2011 financial years relate mainly to the fact that the expenditure of the council should be subject to the same verification as that of the expenditure of the other institutions of the union, namely an ascertainment based on written documents submitted by all the institutions to the european parliament. the commission itself has in particular expressed its support for the right of parliament to decide on the discharge of the council. i therefore vote in favour of the report calling for no discharge.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this short resolution in which parliament welcomes the agreement on minimum levels of protection for workers in inland waterway transport, potentially providing them with protection against the heavy social dumping caused by eastern european workers.
in writing. - i voted today in favour of the motion for a resolution on the european agreement between the european barge union (ebu), the european shipowners' organisation (eso) and the european transport workers' federation (etf) on certain aspects of the organisation of working time in inland waterway transport. i welcome the fact that the agreement reached by the social partners and the commission proposal only set minimum requirements, leaving the member states and/or the social partners free to adopt measures which are more favourable to workers in the sector concerned. the working and living conditions on passenger ships differ from those on other inland waterway vessels. the diversity of the social environment and of the activities involved, together with the seasonal nature of this segment of the european inland waterway transport sector, mean that work is organised differently. all these factors justify the existence of special provisions.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of this resolution because the provisions of directive 2003/88/ec did not take sufficient account of the particular working and living conditions in the inland waterway transport (iwt) sector. more specific requirements will ensure a high level of protection of the safety and health of workers in this sector. inland waterway transport has an international dimension and is characterised mainly by cross-border activities by inland waterways. this is why better conditions on the labour market should be promoted and unfair competition based on differences in legislation prevented. i believe that the proposal is in line with the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality and that the new rules will improve the environmentally friendly transport mode, which contributes in a sustainable way to decongesting european road and rail freight transport.
in writing. - i am voting in favour because this would leave the member states and the social partners free to adopt measures which are more favourable to workers in inland waterway transport at eu level.
in writing. - i vote in favour of the report which sets out the agreement reached at european level between undertakings and workers - specifically in the field of inland waterway transport. the agreement defines minimum levels of protection for workers. the remainder remains the responsibility of the individual member states.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european agreement concluded between the european barge union (ebu), the european shipowners' organisation (eso) and the european transport workers' federation (etf) as the proposal adopted by the commission only lays down minimum requirements, leaving the member states and/or the social partners free to adopt measures which are favourable to workers in the sectors concerned.
in writing. - i shall vote in favour of the motion for a resolution on the proposal for a council directive implementing the europe agreement between the european barge union (ebu), the european shipmasters' organisation (eso) and the european transport workers' federation (etf) on certain aspects of the organization of working time in inland waterway transport. article 155 (1) tfeu provides for the possibility for management and labour at union level, if they so wish, to enter into a dialogue which may lead to contractual relations, including agreements. paragraph 2 of the same article provides for the possibility of implementing agreements concluded at union level, at the joint request of the signatory parties, on the basis of a council decision on a proposal from the commission. i welcome the fact that the agreement reached by the social partners and the commission proposal only set minimum requirements, leaving the member states and/or the social partners free to adopt measures which are more favourable to workers in the sector concerned.
in writing. - i am pleased that an agreement has been reached between the european barge union, the european organization of captains and the european federation of transport workers on the organization of working time, in a climate of constructive dialogue. moreover, the agreement concluded between the social partners and the commission, as indicated in the resolution, provides only for basic indications, leaving the member states free, in agreement with the social partners, to adopt the measures which are most favourable to workers in this sector.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the agreement which makes it possible to find solutions favourable to all the categories concerned on the subject of the organization of working time in transport.
the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe in the past, and it is a great help to the people of europe today. as president schulz said so well in his powerful speech, the fall of the berlin wall was an act of liberation: the victory of life over the sadness of oppression. celebrating the anniversary today means first of all remembering the victims of that wall - the political dissidents and the many citizens whose lives were upset - but it also means remembering those reformers who, before others, understood the true nature of real socialism. i would like to remember alexander dubček, whose death anniversary was celebrated in silence on friday. but today we also want to look to the future. the first lesson to be learned is that europe is the only antidote to the rise of new walls and conflicts. europe is a bridge that crosses over any wall. this european vocation for peace is now being called into question by the rise of new walls, such as the new imaginary wall dividing ukraine. we will never accept violations of fundamental principles of international law, such as territorial integrity, but we will not accept that some nostalgic for the cold war use the ukrainian tragedy as a wedge between europe and russia. the new walls are not just in europe. federica mogherini did well to make her first official visit to the middle east. europe, with its new activism, can become a protagonist in the peace process in the region. only by breaking down the wall in gaza, by rebuilding acceptable living conditions in that region, will we be able to bring peace and development. i understand the fascination of walls, also with regard to migrants, to non-eu citizens. the walls evoke closed universes, like the maginot line the french erected to protect themselves from the germans. but then we know how the french fortress ended: the historian marc bloch called it a strange defeat, because the collapse had occurred first in the souls. even today, the real european wall does not cross borders and maps. the real european front is in the minds. after the berlin wall, it was believed that history was over and that an alternative to the most unbridled capitalism was no longer possible. this has opened the way for unbridled neoliberalism and increased inequality. new, often parasitic, rent-based oligarchies have emerged, and too often europe has been unable to challenge the single mind and propose an ambitious agenda of market reforms. europe must continue to regulate finance if it does not want to fall victim to the financial lobby of this great power which threatens the democratic integrity of this great building which is europe. it is up to europe today to show that history is not over, but that the aspiration for equality, freedom and solidarity remains the northern star of our community.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, 25 years ago the fall of the berlin wall showed that no physical or ideological barrier could stop the will of a people, the will of a people to freedom, and gave us hope that a different europe would finally be born. but it didn't work out that way, unfortunately. since 1989 the european union and the european institutions have built a very high wall, which is getting higher and higher and more dangerous. on the other side of this wall are the citizens of europe. there are 122 million european citizens at risk of poverty, 25 million unemployed, businesses closing, young people without a future, old people who do not even have the money to live. the commission has already made a number of proposals. we must decide which side we are on, whether we are brave or cowardly, whether we are with the people or with the europe of banks, austerity, taxes and financial lobbies. we're at a crossroads. we can be the brave voice that interprets the needs of our citizens or we can stand with the economic dictatorship of this europe. we all have a great responsibility. we are fighting to change this europe. let us finally bring about a europe of the peoples.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr juncker, first of all, thank you for being here in parliament. your presence is an act of sensitivity and responsibility and we democratic socialists sincerely appreciate it. i would like to say at the outset that the first feeling one gets when reading about the schemes adopted by the multinationals to pay less tax is still one of indignation, even when one knows the facts. outrage at those companies that make billions in profits and don't pay taxes in the countries where those profits are made. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. as president juncker has said, this is not a problem that affects just a few member states. it is a european and a world phenomenon. and it is shameful that while some countries - let us remember greece - were being given the horse-drawn carriage in the name of austerity, elsewhere, in europe too, multinational companies were evading billions of euros from public coffers by not paying taxes. and the worst, the most shameful thing, as president juncker himself has very honestly pointed out, is that the multinationals, in most cases, evaded taxes without breaking any european law or regulation. we must not allow this to happen again! if there is one thing that should unite this house, it is the tenacious and strong will to stop allowing a phenomenon to happen by changing the legislation, because the legislation must be changed to eradicate this phenomenon. many of the companies accused of tax evasion are the same ones that later line up to get funding and support from the member states. the philosophy is to draw on the state when it's convenient, but privatize the profits. this is the logic of rapacious capitalism, which has little to do with the thousands of small and mediumsized enterprises which are competing every day in the market without any tricks and which constitute the real backbone and salvation of the european economy. but the complaint is not enough, let's move on to the proposals. president juncker, when he took office as president of the european commission, when he won our confidence, he made commitments, which he reiterated this afternoon. we, as a group of socialists and democrats, are calling for a precise timetable for implementing these commitments and we are also adding some of our own proposals. tax harmonization is fine, but we need a stronger push for political, social and economic integration in europe. we also propose to the commission three measures which come from the report by a former colleague of ours, mojca kleva kekuš, which was approved by a large majority in this parliament. first proposal: the commission could and should adopt a clear definition of tax havens, which is broad and also takes into account dubious practices such as tax rulings. second proposal: the smart ones pay. the competent authorities must suspend or revoke the banking licenses of financial institutions that help to organise fraud. at the same time, companies that engage in such practices must be excluded from european funds, because it is not acceptable to try to evade taxation and then make a profit. proposal number three: we want financial information in the balance sheets of multinationals to be reported country by country. it is right that citizens know where multinationals make their profits because it is in that country that they have to pay their taxes. i repeat: taxes are paid in the country where they make profits. we will follow the juncker commission on these commitments and support it in this direction. the member states are essential, but the commission makes its proposals. parliament will help the commission to defeat those member states and to show the european public that the responsibility for the failure of the reform process lies with the member states, not with parliament, not with the european commission. we're going to keep going down this road. we cannot accept the weakening of the european commission and of the newly elected president juncker. it would be a gift to euroscepticism, to europhobia. it would be a gift to inaction, because our citizens expect answers and we can have answers with a strong and authoritative commission and a president legitimized by the strong will to solve and reform this sector.
in writing. i believe that the behaviour of the prime minister of luxembourg over the last 18 years has been highly immoral, allowing his country and multinational companies to prosper through tax avoidance towards the tax of other eu member states. that is why i do not think he is the right person to be president of the commission at a sensitive historical moment when a firm stand against countries which favour such tax behaviour is necessary.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today, as five months ago, i was not running as a person, but as a principle, as a humble defender of democracy in your own home, which i respect and honour. but here, the rules for adversaries apply, for friends they are interpreted. it has been demonstrated by those of you who have trampled on the d'hondt method, which has always been shared, for the sake of self-interest, by those of you who have ghettoized behind a new wall the dignity of millions of votes. principles are always valid, not according to convenience. that is why i am today renouncing the candidacy of the socialists. that is why we demand that all our offices be returned, taken away by a petty pact from people who are committed to honoring their mandate. many of you are ashamed of it and have confessed it. mr. rehn, if you don't want to kill democracy, you and the others must resign! you must resign!
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it is not with these empty speeches that the commission can convince us that it wants to change this shameful system. juncker is the very symbol of the failure of the eu and the worst image of it. he has favoured his country over all the european partners he would like to represent today. shame on you! but the most embarrassing thing is the behavior of the socialists. president pittella said in the newspapers that he wanted an explanation, otherwise he would have distrusted juncker. are you satisfied with these unanswered questions? when will you stop playing this double game? you act outraged in the newspapers, but here, for the sake of quiet living, you don't have the courage to take a strong stand against these shameful practices. juncker represents the european policy that has led us into the abyss. you fought him during the election campaign and then you made a deal with the epp. we will table a motion of censure and see who has the courage to follow us with a concrete action and who prefers to just talk in the newspapers.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the investigative journalism that has unmasked this glaring situation, the conflict of interest of a man who for twenty years, from 1989 to 2009, was also minister of finance. he was president of the eurogroup. he has devised this system of evasion, which has enabled banks, financial institutions and multinational companies to steal money from the real economy which produces and employs europeans. it is a shame that we voted for him, dear socialists and christian democrats! it is a shame that we voted for the president of the european commission, the symbol of high financial power, of derivatives speculation, a great frequent visitor to the trilateral commission and bilderberg. only here, when we discuss his responsibilities, he has eluded us and made us still long for his presence. then shame on you! we defend the real economy. a european parliament committee of inquiry to put him and his supporters on trial.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to comment on the court of auditors' observations on the performance of structural funding. since i'm new, i'd like to understand. what is the added value of the european union over the past years? it seems that the commission gives general guidelines and then the state actors define the projects. the report shows that the member states are unfortunately not in a position to guarantee results on financing, because their first interest is to: one, spend money so you don't lose it; two, try to follow the rules. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the internal market. the fact that we are spending all these billions of dollars, which are the product of the sacrifices of those who work and pay taxes, and then getting little in return, in a time of crisis and fiscal injustice like this, rightly leads the taxpayer to think that this european institution is useless and, i would add, harmful, because it creates an extra burden on money which at this point could be managed directly by the member states. now i wonder: how could you have ignored it for years? it seems that over the years, rather than making policy for the citizens of europe, the interest in europe has been to share the cake, with political agreements between the parties, with the sole purpose of covering each other.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the president of the court of auditors for his presentation. what's striking to me from the annual report is the error rate, which has been steadily increasing since 2009, demonstrating a systemic problem worth a total of 30 billion euros. i find it unacceptable that such serious errors should also be made in the european administrative sector. pensions, salaries, allowances and expenditure relating to immovable property should be free from error. at a time of historic economic crisis, when european citizens are being asked to make austerity decisions, we have a duty to monitor every single expenditure, every single contract, and to reduce the construction of new european buildings as much as possible. i therefore hope, together with my group, that the new president juncker, who is so attentive to tax avoidance and tax optimisation in luxembourg, will be equally attentive to the recommendations of the court of auditors.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by greeting some 70 mayors of the piedmont region, who are here with my colleague cirio. mayors are the starting point of a democracy, of an institution, and they are always in the trenches when there is trouble. so thank you to the mayors here, who represent the best of italian institutions. in my brief speech, since i have only a minute, i wanted to point out that in my previous experience as a member of parliament i was in the anti-mafia in italy and had the opportunity to meet the anti-mafia prosecutor pietro grasso, who has now become president of the senate. he told us that the mafia is no longer, as you might have thought in the movie "the godfather", only in sicily rather than in other areas of southern italy, but goes where there is money, where there are big interests. i am reminded, then, of the 7 billion in the court of auditors' report, that the mafia is also here, that the mafia is in luxembourg, that the mafia is therefore involved in all the shit it does in europe, because where there is shit there is the mafia. so my ratio is: europe is as bad as... (president interrupts speaker)
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner georgieva, thank you to president da silva caldeira for the in-depth report, but in which, today as well, you have reminded us that the court has been raising the same problems for some time now, including the high rate of error in payments, which in 2013 reached 4.7%, and this is particularly the case in areas where the responsibility for spending eu funds is entrusted to the member states. it is therefore absolutely essential to investigate all the causes of such a high error rate, also to understand why the financial corrective measures did not work properly and possibly to rationalise the expenditure mechanisms in the way suggested by the court itself. but i am more concerned about two other things: the commission has also taken note of the fact that the budgetary impact of the programme is not yet fully known, but that the budgetary impact of the programme is still not fully known. i believe that the european commission must act swiftly and decisively on these two aspects, commissioner georgieva, and make them a priority of its work in the coming months.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in its annual report for 2013, the european court of auditors warns that the budgetary system is too focused on the quantitative aspect of expenditure. the court notes that in the period 2007-2013 the priority was given exclusively to the amount of the expenditure, secondly to compliance with the legislation and only ultimately and to a limited extent to results and impact. frankly, an estimated spending error of about 4.7% is too much. i must say, however, that i am satisfied with what commissioner georgieva has assured me. he said it right: there's no time to lose. we must therefore improve the mechanisms of expenditure and pay close attention to the quality of expenditure, moving on to what is known as the culture of performance. i also appreciated the reference to bureaucratization and transparency, which are the other side of the coin. there is no time to lose, but we must not lose ourselves in proclamations. i hope that the commission will really take up the recommendations of the court of auditors and take action, opening a new era in the management of european funds.
member of the commission. - madam president, first of all i would like to express my appreciation of the comments made and to thank parliament for the opportunity to speak on behalf of the commission in this very important debate. as most members have highlighted, the eu’s peace programme for northern ireland is a very important programme. it is a unique programme within the family of eu structural funds. i agree with all of you that consolidating peace and reconciliation also means promoting growth and jobs. this is what we are doing through this programme – creating positive prospects, especially for the younger generation, because we need to stabilise the economy and to assist its recovery. as many of you have said, it is, of course, very painful to see that at the time of the 25th anniversary of the fall of the berlin wall we still have walls dividing communities in the city of belfast. the european project has played its role and over the course of 60 years we have shown that people and nations are able to come together across communities and borders. that is why the leaders of northern ireland and the governments of the uk and ireland can count on the full support of the commission – and on me personally – in their efforts to resolve outstanding issues and ensure lasting peace and prosperity. i am looking forward to visiting the region in the near future. this is a personal priority for me and the new commission. i will not avoid addressing the basque problem, as mentioned by some members, and if i may i will now speak in my own language – because it is a latin language – for the spanish members. membră a comisiei. - comisia europeană a acționat în cazul irlandei de nord la cererea guvernelor, a celor două guverne, uk și northern ireland, ceea ce nu este cazul în ceea ce privește problema bască. deci au apelat la comisia europeană ca un catalizator și un facilitator în eforturile de pace dezvoltate de ambele părți implicate. dar aș vrea să subliniez faptul, și vă pot oferi foarte multe date concrete, în ce măsură comisia a contribuit în mod substanțial la dezvoltarea și modernizarea economiei basce în cadrul politicii de coeziune, mai ales în ceea ce privește sprijinul inovării, reindustrializării procesului – dumneavoastră știți foarte bine că bilbao este un oraș aproape construit cu fonduri europene și modernizat – și bineînțeles, în crearea de locuri de muncă sustenabile în regiunea bască. deci, ca să fie creat un task force, trebuie să fie o cerere către consiliu, și consiliul este cel care decide asupra creării. în urma recomandării consiliului, comisia poate crea un task force la cererea a două părți, a două guverne implicate. this is my first appearance in this house and it is very strange for me to come from the other side of the chamber. thank you very much for all your support. (applause)
in writing. the european union has always played an important role in supporting the implementation of the peace process in ireland, in particular through the development of a specific programme, peace, which aims to strengthen progress towards a peaceful and stable society and to promote reconciliation by supporting activities and projects that contribute to reconciling communities and fostering a society shared by all. we therefore express our deep concern at the stalemate reached in recent months in the implementation of the peace process. we intend to urge all parties involved in the process to work constructively towards a lasting solution to the conflict. we cannot but welcome the initiative to organize talks between all the parties, encouraging them to engage in these talks in a positive spirit to resolve all the issues still on the table.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, at this moment in cypriot waters there is a clash between cyprus and turkey over energy security. we have often said that we want a europe of people who help and integrate each other. europe must mean a community of people, but those who want to be part of it must know that we must respect the rules we have set for ourselves. if you want to change them, you open a civil discussion and you don't go to the facts. cyprus does not feel protected by europe. we received a study yesterday which says that 30% of cypriots say that being part of the union is bad for their nation. this is the highest figure in the union and it is not surprising. on the one hand we have a member country which has signed the united nations convention on the law of the sea and on the other hand a great nation, turkey, a candidate for membership, which does not recognize any of our member states and has not signed this convention. on the one hand we have a country torn in two by a military occupation and on the other hand a state which has initiated and is carrying out this occupation. this is not a question of taking a position on a situation involving distant states. the point here is to make it clear that the european union speaks with one voice and on behalf of all its member states.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i do not understand turkey, i really do not understand it! we are talking about a wonderful country, which for 30 years has been aspiring to join us. we would like to be able to praise the progress towards accession and the use made of the large sums of money received, but we are not. first we are forced to condemn the social media crackdown, then his opportunistic indifference to the massacres in kobane and finally the illegal invasion of the economic zone of cyprus. what is turkey's path? it is not just oil drilling in the mediterranean, which we in the five star group are opposed to, that is at stake. there is a very heavy responsibility for having broken the fragile negotiations between the republic of cyprus and northern cyprus. a candidate country should consistently use its influence to help us put out the fire in the middle east - you said that earlier - to push the two sides towards a fair sharing of opportunities for all cypriots, to negotiate in a peaceful and constructive way. a place in the union is not won with words, it is won with deeds.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with a very worrying situation because, as we have heard from colleagues before me, this series of threats of unilateral action by turkey against the state of cyprus and its rights to the exclusive economic zone represents the most serious escalation of tension in the recent past between the two countries. respect for and recognition of the territorial sovereignty of the member states is not only an obligation under international law but also an essential component of the process of accession to the european union. i think it is appropriate to send a firm and clear signal to the turkish authorities. turkey will have to take account of the position of this parliament. i would remind you that, as my colleague eleni theocharous has very well said, we have often been silent and have not shown support or closeness to the cypriot people. i think we 'll be able to figure out the right solution tomorrow . the european union is committed to the development of the cypriot people.
in writing. the escalation of unilateral actions by turkey in the exclusive economic zone of cyprus is not to be underestimated and deserves much attention, considering that turkey is a candidate country for accession to the european union. to date, these actions have led to the suspension of peace talks between cyprus and the turkish-controlled north of the island. i therefore ask the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy to call on turkey to withdraw its warships immediately, so as to create the conditions for the resumption of peace talks with cyprus as soon as possible. turkey's actions cannot but lead this parliament to a thorough reflection on turkey's own application to become a member of the eu. i stress the strong need for the european parliament and the european commission to intensify monitoring of turkey's activities in the exclusive economic zone of cyprus and the need to intensify the dialogue with turkey in order to achieve full normalization of relations with all the member states.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there are very few reasons for south sudan to celebrate the third anniversary of its independence. since the conflict between rival forces of president and former vice president riek machar erupted in december 2013, civilians have been systematically targeted in cities and villages, in homes and mosques, in hospitals and even in un bases where they had sought refuge. a recent amnesty international report revealed the horrific atrocities committed by both sides in the conflict: civilians massacred, women and children raped, even pregnant women, the elderly and the sick killed without mercy. attacks on civilians on the basis of ethnic origin and alleged political affiliation constitute actual crimes against humanity. concrete action at local, regional and international levels is urgently needed to end the violence, to stop the reprisals against civilians and to hold those responsible for violations accountable for their actions. the union must do everything in its power to ensure that the people of south sudan find a way to live together in peace and in a constructive manner, overcoming the horrors of recent months.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, south sudan is the youngest country in the world, but it is one of the least developed countries in the world and, according to un figures, it is the country with the worst humanitarian crisis. the present crisis, largely caused by armed conflict, has exposed its population to imminent famine and a worrying cholera epidemic. the humanitarian situation is obvious. we welcome the 28th extraordinary summit of the heads of state and government of the igad, held on 7 november, at which the government of south sudan and the opposition faction of the people's liberation movement signed a resolution, committing themselves unconditionally and immediately to an end to hostilities. the mediation process has reached an important milestone and we call on the european union to continue to assist igad by providing staff to monitor the ceasefire.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the resumption of fighting in south sudan two weeks ago is further aggravating a situation of grave humanitarian crisis which has since 2013 claimed more than 10 000 lives, many of them civilians, more than 1 800 000 displaced persons and 3 800 000 people in need of humanitarian assistance. the ngos operating in the country and carrying aid that does not end up in the hands of the armed forces will, as of this week, very likely thanks to the approval of a specific law, be restricted in their field of action, with very serious consequences that will certainly have an impact on humanitarian action. several failed attempts to reach an agreement between the parties leading to a ceasefire. we now have high hopes for the success of the extraordinary summit in november, which is expected to reach a final decision on peace in the next fortnight. if this is not the case, we must strongly support the continuation of the arms embargo on south sudan by the european union and similar, unobtrusive action by the united nations, with full support for ngos, so that they can continue to work to stem the level of emergency in which the country finds itself, which would lead to further violence and sexual abuse against women, to severe famine and to an exponential increase in the number of people in need of food. let us not forget that the most recent estimates say that a million civilians are trapped in south sudan and are just waiting for a better future. (the president agreed to reply to a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
it's a blue-card question. i'm not sure what it is. mr president, i would like to ask my colleague how she can maintain that the conflict is still going on, when on 7 november a resolution was signed in which they committed themselves, unconditionally and immediately, to the end of hostilities.
answer to a blue-card question. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, these are journalistic estimates which are considered to be more than reliable. the summit is quite recent, by the way. no one can give us any assurance that there has been a ceasefire, especially in the border areas in the south of the country, where we are talking about almost a million people who are trapped waiting for a solution and, above all, waiting for basic necessities.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, sometimes the independence of a country is the culmination of a long process leading to long-awaited and lasting peace. some others become the antechamber of a new hell of violence, cruelty and barbarism. the latter is unfortunately the case in south sudan. the world's youngest state has already been drenched in the blood of more than 10,000 victims. at times, even aid workers have been raped and slaughtered. as the two factions battle to dominate each other for almost a year, some are deaf to common sense, some will lose anyway. there are 3.8 million south sudanese without health care, 1.4 million internally displaced, 470,000 refugees in neighboring countries, hundreds of thousands of children waiting for food and medicine. but who funds both sides? who supplies them with weapons and equipment? we must respond to these questions as a union and use our authority to sanction those who speculate on this war and the leaders responsible for the conflict, to strengthen the role of the international criminal court. humanitarian aid is right and important but it is not enough. you can throw water on a fire to put it out, but i prefer to arrest arsonists.
member of the commission. - mr president, i should like to thank members for their comments, considerations and engagement. let me conclude by saying that, to avert the continuation and even worsening of this humanitarian catastrophe, it is paramount first of all to promptly secure a political solution to the crisis. humanitarian bodies will not be able either financially or operationally to continue responding to a long-lasting crisis of this scale. the european union must use all its means and channels to help resolve this crisis politically, through continued support for the igad-led peace negotiations, as well as through other international fora. the conflict parties in south sudan must understand that the patience of the international community has come to an end. at the same time, the union has a moral duty to continue mobilising life-saving humanitarian funding, especially as all indications are that humanitarian needs will pick up again during the first quarter of 2015, with 2.5 million people expected to be in need of food assistance alone. let us be clear: the humanitarian crisis in south sudan is a man-made crisis. the political leaders whose actions have created the tremendous human suffering are finally also the ones to bring back peace and initiate reconciliation, because the world’s youngest nation deserves better than a lost generation of child soldiers and the continuation of a senseless conflict. south sudan needs a transitional government of national unity which looks after the wellbeing of all its citizens and creates conditions in which the country can prosper.
in writing. since december 2013, the humanitarian situation in south sudan has been deteriorating day by day. the escalation of violence against the local population shows no sign of abating. rebels loyal to former vice-president riek machar fight pro-government forces, slaughtering the population. schools are closed, children are being recruited as soldiers, entire villages destroyed. we can't go on like this. a peace agreement has been reached with great difficulty, it must be respected and constitutional reforms must be initiated to transform south sudan into a state governed by the rule of law. this is just the latest in a series of wars that have plagued the territory of south sudan, which has not found peace for years. today, south sudan is in extreme poverty, yet it is an oil-rich country. however, this immense wealth is not exploited because of the lack of adequate structures and a legal framework suitable for the exploitation of the famous 'black gold'. europe must not leave south sudan alone on the difficult path of reform, but must also ask it to assume its responsibilities in protecting civilians and in setting up a joint war tribunal, composed of representatives of the international community and south sudan.
in writing. for almost a year, the internal conflict in south sudan has caused tens of thousands of deaths, the looting of villages, churches and hospitals, and the flight of almost 2 million people. the ongoing conflict distracts attention from other urgent health issues affecting the country, such as the malaria epidemic that is plaguing the western part, and which the prolonged hostilities are worsening daily. there are many calls from ngos working in the area for concrete measures to stop the conflict, given the ineffectiveness of the peace agreements attempted in recent years. the news these days is that an agreement has been reached for a national unity government between the rebels and president kiir. europe is now taking action to guarantee this agreement, reiterating the priority of an immediate ceasefire, including the introduction of arms embargoes. we have witnessed war crimes and continuous violations against civilians, particularly religious minorities, for 11 months. it is time to show the face of a new europe, which does not turn its attention to africa only when it is threatened by the risk of ebola or by migratory pressures.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, madam commissioner, i asked to speak because, in my work for the committee on regional development, i have seen how important and interdependent the four freedoms and the local economy of the regions and therefore of each member state are. in reading this proposal, i would like to emphasize that, in formulating the european union's position on the agreement with the swiss confederation on the free movement of persons and the coordination of social security systems, i would like to take into account the fact that switzerland, which is also a beneficiary of many european programmes and funding, such as easi and horizon, under certain conditions, but benefits from them, should in no case propose measures to impede the free movement of persons. discriminatory actions against so-called cross-border workers, such as those taken following the referendum last february, should be avoided, as should any administrative and legal difficulties relating to social security schemes.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i wish you and the commissioner every success in your work. as you know, the free movement of workers is one of the fundamental pillars of the european union, it is even an identity right. the union exists because there is the possibility for people living in this part of the world to move freely. this is a great advantage for them, for the realization of their personality, and it is a great advantage for business, because it represents the availability of an extraordinary resource denied to other countries. however, for free movement to fulfil its potential, it is important to do what we are doing tonight, namely to ensure that people who move, whatever the reason for their mobility - work rather than leisure rather than even cultural functions - have a coordination of social security systems. people are at their best when they're protected. otherwise, they risk becoming mere instruments in the hands of a financial or productive system which exploits them rather than exploits them. that's why it's very important to keep these two things together: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used effectively.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to offer my warmest wishes to the new commissioner. i join my colleagues who have decided to unite around the commitment that you will have to support, we need it. the amendment to protocol 31 to the eea agreement contains a number of important social, business and, if i may say so, cultural requirements. we see what the elements are, and there are clearly some areas of concern, areas where there are obviously risks, as my colleagues have said, risks relating to the movement of people and risks relating to relations with certain states. the case of switzerland was cited in this connection. first of all, i would like to remind you that on the one hand we are dealing with a central issue, which is the spread of the mentality that a strong europe is a europe with a united social policy. that's the first point. we have discussed today, for a number of reasons connected with the vicissitudes of luxembourg, the problem of the unification of fiscal policies, but we do not forget the need for a path linked to the unification of social policies. on the other hand, the development of an awareness of the culture of the enterprise. the support for small and mediumsized enterprises, as has been said, is support for a great cultural battle. for us, starting over today means first of all giving oxygen to those who take risks, to those who are entrepreneurs, especially if they are not protected by the same network that often protects productive realities on our continent. those who risk their lives must be supported because they create value and educate the people.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i shall be speaking about public and private water. in sicily and sardinia, even today, there are major problems with water supply and too often families and farmers are literally without a drop of water. we voted in italy in a referendum to guarantee public water to all italian citizens, but at the moment public water remains a utopia and those who really enjoy it are those who make millions from a good that should be for everyone. historically, water has been a tool of the mafia's control of territory. the mafia-like management of water resources is one of the oldest experiments in privatization. the mafia was the first organization to realize the economic potential of the deal and the state, alas, followed suit. just think that a few days ago a 68-year-old pensioner from lucca sicula died of a heart attack after the water supply was cut off. you can die of lack of water in europe in 2014. we demand that all citizens enjoy the right to water as a fundamental right and that the institutions ensure that funds do not end up in the hands of mafia members and corrupt politicians. water is a commons, so get it into your head.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, every autumn, for several years now, italy has been weeping over some catastrophe, which some people call sudden. these days liguria is under attack by thunderstorms, described by the press as "water bombs", which everyone considers responsible for these tragedies. i would say that the blame lies with the anti-terrorist mines. in any case, little changes: italy is at war and almost no one knows it, it is at war with the unworthy political class that governs it. the media circus is moved by the injuries, damage and deaths of the victims of the hydrogeological disaster. we don't get fooled because we have good memories. those who approve laws such as the building permit, who allow the ability of speculators who are committed to cementing at any cost to be satisfied, do not have the right to mourn the lives and communities buried by the mud waves. i would like europe to do more to promote a culture of prevention and to hold italy accountable. we in the five star movement will certainly be working to explore the possibility of opening new infringement procedures, but i would also like you to ask the italians in your groups whether, after their emotional and hypocritical statements in front of the tv, they really have the courage to look in the mirror.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, once again this parliament is discussing the relations which the european union is developing and strengthening with countries which, although they have firmly decided to reject russian pressure and to look to europe as a future trade expansion, are still competing with our producers, especially in the agricultural field. if the association agreement is to lead to democratic development in the country, then we can only be in favour of it. but let us not forget that this will be an additional burden on our shoulders, because agricultural products entering our territory will be duty free. i therefore ask that the european union not ignore the problems which this agreement will cause our farmers.
i'm asking for a blue card. thank you for accepting my request, colleague. i wanted to ask you something. you were right to talk about the visa-free agreement. but in moldova we have a very serious problem, which many colleagues have mentioned before, namely transnistria and the internal borders. all citizens of transnistria may also apply for a moldovan passport. but we know that transnistria is the largest illegal arms market in europe. do you think, at this point, this arrangement was really appropriate? i would also like to know your opinion on the dangers it may actually pose for the illegal trafficking of arms in the light of what i have just said.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i join my predecessor in this because the prestigious american gallup polling company published a survey in october which said that the moldovan government was the sixth most hated government in the world among the so-called free countries. we have in the past concluded agreements between states and built a monetary union early on, without informing and listening to the will of the people. has the will of the people in moldova really been heard? has a referendum ever been called? instead of settling down to solve the many problems and paradoxes of this crippled and in crisis european union, we are expanding ever further east. and how will the union deal with the problem of transnistria, which is in fact an autonomous state within moldova, with privileged relations with russia? most of moldova's exports went directly to russia. we want to add to the ukrainian crisis a moldovan crisis? russian sanctions have already done enough damage in europe. is this the time? who will pay for these choices? who will supply gas to moldova? who is pushing for this expansionary bulimia of the union? who decides in europe? states or citizens? (the president agreed to reply to a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a blue-card question. i am referring to the fact that we are making agreements with the moldovan government, not the russian government. so i am interested in the ranking of the respect by the moldovan government for the will of its citizens, who apparently have never been heard.
in writing. moldova signed association and free trade agreements with the eu at the november 2013 summit in vilnius, and western experts fear that the next crimea will be the breakaway region of transnistria, another gasoline can full of gas ready to explode. the european union observers, speaking of the worrying situation of lawlessness and lack of control of the borders of this region on the doorstep of the union, are led to believe that a significant part of the national economic flow is directly linked to illicit trafficking which derives from the entrenchment of organized crime by mafias active throughout russia and the particular position of this territory as a transit point for the flow of drugs, weapons and contraband. this situation has led the press to call the country the "black hole of europe". transnistria is as useful as switzerland, and perhaps more so: in this thin strip of land, as in a giant discount, dictators, witch doctors, secret services, mafias, terrorist groups from all over the world come to feed. it is no wonder that when it comes to international politics, everyone pretends that transdniester does not exist.
it is with great pleasure that i welcome the members of a delegation from the canadian parliament in the gallery. the delegation is chaired by mr david tilson, president of the canada-europe parliamentary association, and includes senators and members of parliament from ontario, alberta, quebec, newfoundland and labrador and british columbia. the european parliament's delegation for relations with canada is meeting in brussels on the occasion of the 36th interparliamentary meeting between the european parliament and canada. we are all deeply disturbed by the tragic events that struck the parliament building in ottawa on 22 october. i take this opportunity to express my solidarity and my deep admiration for the courage and dignity with which the canadian people have responded to the attack. in the face of threats, it is important to protect the core values of our society both in canada and in europe. i hope that this meeting will further strengthen the long-standing ties between our parliaments. i wish the delegation a pleasant stay in the european union. welcome, welcome to you all!
the next item is the vote on the motion for a resolution (doc. (for the results of the votes and other relevant details, see minutes)
in writing. - i voted in favour of the motion for a european parliament decision rejecting the request by the deputy prosecutor-general of the portuguese republic to waive the immunity of ms ana gomes. application for criminal proceedings to be instituted against mr gomes and for him to be heard in the context of those proceedings, following alleged defamatory statements made during a television debate on the privatisation of important shipyards. it would not be right to waive immunity in this case, since mr gomes expressed those views in the course of his duties and on matters which he had personally dealt with at european level, as is clear from the questions addressed to the commission and the extensive correspondence on the subject with european commissioners tajani and almunia. the link between mr gomes's opinion and his duties as a member of parliament is clear, and this is a necessary condition for the application of immunity under the court of justice and european union law. moreover, the issue on which the member of parliament expressed her opinion is of great public interest, all the more important at european level since the portuguese government's decision had given rise to an investigation by the european commission for breach of union state aid rules.
in writing. - portuguese mep ana gomes has been sued for libel over statements she made criticising abuses by her country's defence minister in connection with the privatisation of a shipyard. given that the question was raised by mrs gomes herself on several occasions during her parliamentary activities, we do not think we should vote in favour of the waiver of immunity.
in writing. - mrs ana gomes has been sued for alleged defamation during a television broadcast in which she criticised the portuguese minister of defence over alleged abuses in connection with the privatisation of a shipyard in portugal. it is established practice in the european parliament that members may enjoy immunity for remarks made outside parliament if those remarks have a direct and obvious link with the duties performed in the context of the parliamentary mandate. furthermore, gomes had raised the issue on several occasions in several written questions to the commission and, subsequently, the facts she had complained of were the subject of a state aid investigation by the european commission. so i can only be in favor of not revoking your immunity.
in writing. - voting on parliamentary immunities is always very personal and sensitive and is aimed at verifying the effective exercise of the functions of a member of the european parliament, in order to protect our political action during the parliamentary term. in the specific case, concerning the request for the waiver of immunity from prosecution against ms ana gomes, i believe that it was correct not to waive her immunity, as her statements during the tv programme 'tvi24 cara a cara' were directly and obviously connected with the exercise of her duties as a member of parliament.
in writing. - the principle of parliamentary immunity provides that members are free to participate constructively in public debates by making their own comments without the risk of being sued by a court or other authority; this is the case with mr gomes, who has expressed an opinion in public which is directly related to the exercise of his duties as a member of the european parliament. the existence of a clear link between the idea expressed by mr gomes and his duties as a member of the european parliament is therefore indisputable. i have given my consent to the report signed by mrs hautala, convinced that the initiation of legal proceedings against mrs gomes would send the wrong message, namely that a member of the european parliament cannot express his views freely.
in writing. - mrs ana gomes has been sued in connection with alleged defamatory statements made during a television debate in which she criticised the portuguese minister of defence on the issue of sub-concessioning the private use of the viana shipyards in portugal. the principle underlying parliamentary immunity is the freedom of members to participate constructively in debates and to represent their constituents on matters of public interest, freely expressing their views without risk of being sued before a court or other authority. given that mr gomes spoke on the television programme in question as a member of the european parliament, discussing matters of interest to him at european level, i cannot support the request for the waiver of parliamentary immunity.
in writing. - i have decided not to waive the immunity of my colleague, mrs ana gomes, because members of the european parliament, pursuant to articles 8 and 9 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union, may not be sought, detained or prosecuted for opinions or votes expressed in the exercise of their functions. in this case, my colleague had criticised the portuguese government on a television programme, in which she discussed issues of concern to her at european level. in particular, mr gomez objected to the privatisation of major shipyards, which had been the subject of two questions to the european commission for a written reply. the criticism was therefore directly and visibly connected with the exercise of his duties as a member of the european parliament and, as a result, i could only vote in favour of the decision.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, i have voted in favour.
in writing. - i voted with absolute conviction and determination against the waiver of mr gomes's immunity because, as the court rightly pointed out in its interpretation of the articles of the case, a member of the european parliament can and must express his opinion outside the european parliament, because this too is an expression of the exercise of his parliamentary functions. it seems to me a basic principle of modern democracies that political debate should take place not only in parliament but also through the most varied media, from press releases to the internet. a member must be free to take part in debates and to represent his constituents on matters of public interest, freely expressing his views without fear of being sued in a court of law. a democratic society must guarantee the freedom of expression of its representatives, especially when they speak about the institutional task entrusted to them. if not, the concept of democracy should be revised. in this particular case, there is a clear link between the opinion expressed by mr gomes and his duties as a member of the european parliament. a legal action against her would prevent her from freely exercising the parliamentary mandate entrusted to her by the portuguese citizens.
in writing. - i supported this report authorizing the mobilisation of the egf, the european globalisation adjustment fund, the european instrument which, more than any other at this time, can help workers in firms affected by the crisis by treating the symptoms but not the causes of their ill health.
in writing. - i 'm in . the commission has therefore decided to initiate the procedure laid down in article 93 (2) of the treaty in respect of the aid scheme for the protection of workers in firms in difficulty.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report today in order to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of globalisation by andersen ireland, a company active in the manufacture of jewellery, ornaments and related articles. eurostat data show that since 2008, sales volumes of european producers, in particular in the jewellery sector, have decreased, possibly due to the consequences of the global economic and financial crisis. at the same time, imports from third countries have become increasingly predominant with products mainly coming from asian countries such as china, india, thailand and the philippines. these redundancies have a significant negative impact on the local and regional economy. andersen ireland was a major employer in this predominantly rural area of ireland, where the unemployment rate (39.3%) was more than twice the national average (19%). the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf), which provides support for those who have lost their jobs as a result of major structural changes in world trade due to globalisation, is becoming essential as more and more european businesses are forced to close.
in writing. - we are voting in favour of this mobilisation of the egf to help 276 workers, including some young people under the age of 30, who were indirectly involved in the business crises affecting the jewellery and jewellery sector.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the request for the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for a total amount of eur 1 501 200 for ireland. the egf was set up to provide additional support to workers who are affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade and welcome help. i also think that we should try to develop a plan to make up for the damage, but in the meantime we also need these short-term measures.
in writing. - the irish authorities applied for financial assistance for 171 redundant workers at andersen ireland limited, which was operating in the economic sector of nace rev. 2 division 32 (manufacture of jewellery and related articles). the request is a derogation from the egf regulation (article 4 (1) (a)) which requires the mobilisation of the egf to be carried out by an additional 500 persons. i believe that the exceptional circumstances, given the influence of these redundancies on employment and the economy of the area of rathkeale, where the company is located, in economically difficult conditions, justify the derogation. the commission proposes to mobilise the egf in the amount of eur 1 501 200. in view of the above, i voted in favour of the commission's proposal, as i consider that the mobilisation of the egf is justified by the major changes in the structure of world trade in the field of cosmetics: third countries have increasingly gained a leading position in the sector, both in terms of volume and value, also thanks to online sales, replacing european producers. the derogation from the regulation was appropriate because the company was a major employer in the area, and also because the majority of the redundant workers are women, whose wages are the main source of livelihood for entire families.
in writing. - ireland is requesting eur 1.5 million to assist 276 beneficiaries, many of whom are from the crisis in a gold and jewellery industry. it should be noted that, as in greece, the authorities have included among the beneficiaries unemployed young people under 30 from the industrial sector affected by the crisis, and also foresee the extension of assistance to those young people from other sectors that have suffered indirectly from the effects of the crisis. i am in favour of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, aware that it is certainly not the best instrument to help workers who lose their jobs, but in the absence of alternatives it must be supported.
in writing. - i shall vote in favour of the report by mr ivan štefanec. the european globalisation adjustment fund allocates resources to ensure the reintegration of some workers made redundant into the labour market. in the case in point, the workers concerned are redundant from andersen ireland limited, an undertaking engaged in the manufacture of jewellery, fine jewellery and related articles. the european globalisation adjustment fund can make a positive and practical contribution to this.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report in order to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant by andersen ireland, a company active in the manufacture of jewellery and related articles. ireland requests the mobilisation of eur 1,5 million to assist 276 beneficiaries, who are in crisis in the goldsmithing industry. the egf should be seen as a key eu instrument to help workers who lose their jobs as a result of the economic and financial crisis.
in writing. - the european union has competence to provide support for workers who lose their jobs as a result of major changes in world trade patterns. that is why i felt it was my duty to express my agreement with the report signed by mr štefanec, which supports the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for the benefit of a group of 171 redundant employees of an irish jewellery company. this appropriation is intended to cover the financing of measures to improve the professional skills of these workers and to help them to find new employment opportunities.
in writing. - ireland submitted an application egf/2014/007 ie/andersen ireland for a financial contribution from the egf of eur 1 501 200 following the redundancies at andersen ireland limited, the excesses are attributable to major structural changes in world trade flows due to globalisation. in addition to redundant workers, the irish authorities have decided to offer personalised services co-financed by the egf to 138 unemployed young people, not in education or training and under 25 years of age, which will increase the number of targeted beneficiaries expected to participate in the measures to 276. as the contribution is intended to provide additional support for redundant workers and to facilitate their reintegration into the labour market, i voted in favour.
in writing. - the irish authorities submitted a specific application for a financial contribution from the egf following the redundancies at andersen ireland limited. the commission has concluded that the conditions for granting the aid in question are met. the company had already been negatively affected by the global situation for several years, with the company's turnover falling from eur 18 million in 2008 to eur 8,9 million in 2012, while the wage bill was almost halved in the same period from eur 7 million to eur 3,9 million. the local and regional economy is severely affected by redundancies. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. - the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) is designed to provide support for workers in firms suffering from the adverse economic climate and major structural changes in world trade. it is right to mobilise the fund for ireland to help reintegrate into the labour market those workers made redundant by andersen ireland limited (a company engaged in the manufacture of jewellery and related articles), although in reality it is a derogation from article 4 of the regulation, as the number of redundant workers is below the 500-person threshold required for its application. in this case, as it was a rural establishment, andersen ireland was a major employer in that area, where the unemployment rate is particularly high. i hope that the sums allocated to workers will help them to re-enter the labour market in the best possible way and that all the principles of equal treatment will be respected.
in writing. - i vote in favour of this measure, which is intended to compensate for the redundancy of 171 employees in the jewellery and similar industries, amounting to just over eur 1 500 000.
in writing. - i have supported this report authorising the mobilisation of the egf, the european globalisation adjustment fund, and i will certainly continue to support its work but also to fight for europe to tackle the real causes of this unprecedented economic and financial crisis: i am referring to the wrong currency, the fixed and unalterable budgetary parameters imposed by the european treaties and a worldview that helps immigrants and not european citizens.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report today in order to support the reintegration into the labour market of 1,311 workers made redundant as a result of globalisation by spider stores, a retailer. for the sixth consecutive year (2008-2013), the greek economy is in deep recession. according to the greek statistical authority, since 2008 greek gdp, public and private consumption have decreased by 25%, 7%, 21% and 32,3% respectively, while unemployment has increased by 20,6%. in addition, to meet the payments of the foreign debt, in 2008 the greek government adopted unpopular measures such as the increase of tax revenues, the rationalization of public spending and the reduction of salaries of public employees. private sector wages have also fallen in an attempt to increase the competitiveness of the economy. since 2008, thousands of businesses have closed, contributing to the sharp increase in unemployment. an immediate effect of the reduction in income was the decline in consumption. as sprider stores was present in all regions of greece, these redundancies took place throughout greece and will further aggravate the employment situation, which has already deteriorated as a result of the economic and financial crisis and which appears particularly fragile.
in writing. - the crisis has affected many sectors of industry in greece. this mobilisation, which was voted in favour by the 5 star delegation, released eur 7.3 million to assist 1300 workers in the commercial and manufacturing sectors.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the request for the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for a total amount of eur 7 290 900 for greece. the egf was established to provide additional support for workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade. it is a pity that it is no longer possible to apply for these funds, given the realities that would still need them.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the allocation of over eur 7 million from the egf, proposed by the european commission, following a request for a contribution from the greek authorities. the aim of the measure is to resolve the situation resulting from the redundancy of 761 workers in sprider stores s.a., an enterprise in the economic sector classified in nace rev. 2 division 47 (retail trade other than motor vehicles and motorcycles). it is well known that the economic and financial crisis is unfortunately leading to a rise in the unemployment rate, which has not escaped even greece, which is also suffering from a deep recession, with a continuing decline in gdp and public and private consumption. the main causes of the excesses were the decline in household disposable income and the sharp reduction in credit to firms and individuals. i therefore believe that the egf should be involved in this case in order to provide support for the extremely fragile greek economy.
in writing. - the request for the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund in respect of greece. in this case, it is a question of mobilising some eur 7 300 000 to assist 1 300 workers, mainly in the manufacturing and trading sectors. in addition, the greek authorities have included among the beneficiaries some unemployed young people under 30 years old, both from crisis-affected areas and from those not directly affected by the business crises which have in any case been affected. i am also in favour of the proposal to make a new directive on the protection of workers from the risks of exposure to carcinogens.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the reintegration into the labour market of redundant workers in sprider stores, a retail company. today's vote seeks to ensure that workers who have been affected by the economic crisis are able to return to the labour market, and once again highlights the role that europe has and must continue to play in this period of crisis as the engine for growth and development.
in writing. - the european union's support for workers made redundant by european companies as a result of the economic changes brought about by globalisation should always be dynamic and timely. that is why i voted in favour of mr negrescu's report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for 761 redundant workers at sprider stores, a greek retailer. the european globalisation adjustment fund is an important european instrument, in line with the principle of mutual assistance between the member states of the union.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the request for the european globalisation adjustment fund, concerning the request made by greece to support the reintegration into the labour market of 1,311 employees dismissed as a result of the economic crisis affecting sprider stores, a retailer. i think it is a duty to support the redundant workers who have lost their jobs because of globalisation.
in writing. - the greek authorities submitted an application on 6 june 2014 egf/2014/009 el/sprider stores to obtain a financial contribution from the egf of eur 7 290 900 following the 761 redundant placements made by sprider stores s.a., which ceased its activity as a result of major structural changes in world trade flows due to globalisation. sprider stores was present in all regions of greece and therefore redundancies took place throughout greece and will further aggravate the employment situation, which has already deteriorated as a result of the economic and financial crisis. as greece has the highest unemployment rate among the eu member states and the grant, which covers a total of 1 311 beneficiaries, is intended to provide additional support to redundant workers and to facilitate their reintegration into the labour market, i voted in favour.
in writing. - the irish authorities submitted a specific application for a financial contribution from the egf following the redundant placements made by sprider stores sa. the commission has concluded that the conditions for granting the aid in question are met. the reduction in turnover due to the fall in consumption, combined with the credit crunch, led to the company's bankruptcy and the consequent redundancy of its employees. the company was widespread throughout greece, with a significant impact on both the local and national economies. i have therefore voted in favour.
in writing. - in this phase of the world economic and financial crisis, it is right to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund to help workers made redundant by firms following redundancies and closures. the request by sprider stores s.a. (a company operating in the 'retail trade, except for motor vehicles and motorcycles') is due to the severe economic crisis, also due to an unfavourable world economic situation, which greece has been experiencing for several years, with a significant decline in consumption due to a reduction in household income and a drastic reduction in credit to businesses. i voted in favour of this proposal because i thought it would be a good idea to help the redundant workers in this company who will benefit from measures co-financed by the egf to reintegrate into the labour market through a package of personalised services.
in writing. - i vote in favour of this measure, which is intended to compensate for the loss of 761 employees in the retail trade, amounting to some eur 7 300 000.
in writing. - i voted against this report which, while lacking any objectivity in its assessment of russia's role in the ukraine crisis, also takes up some dangerous cornerstones of the european commission's propaganda of goodwill. the text not only resumes the fight for the human rights of the roma, for whom there is no mention of duties, but also welcomes a visa-free regime for moldovan citizens and welcomes the statements by the moldovan prime minister on his country's intention to apply for membership of the european union in 2015.
in writing. - i vote against it . the agreement in question is part of the process of gradual rapprochement of the countries of the former eastern bloc with the european union which nato and the eu are pursuing against russia and at the expense of the interests of the peoples of europe, who have little to share and, let us say, to gain from these nations which are struggling to get on their feet and which we can already consider future candidates for a forthcoming enlargement.
in writing. - today i voted in favour of the eu-republic of moldova association agreement, which creates a so-called 'deep and comprehensive free trade area' (dcfta). the agreement will be the cornerstone of the enhanced political association and economic integration between the eu and the republic of moldova, ensuring mutual free market access. the role played by russia in the crisis in ukraine has changed the geopolitical order with repercussions also for eu-republic of moldova relations. i call on russia to fully respect the territorial integrity of the republic of moldova and its european choice. russia cannot continue to use the import bans on products from the republic of moldova to destabilize the region. the question of transnistria, the strip of land between ukraine and the dniester river, which has been acting as an independent state since 1992 and, following the events in crimea, wants to join russia, remains unresolved. i hope that the eu will start to play a more decisive role in finding an effective solution to the problem.
in writing. - the five star movement does not share a hasty and cautious approach to the future enlargement of the european union's borders, as moldova currently lacks an economy able to keep pace with the competitive dynamics of the most advanced countries of the union within a single market. therefore, in the absence of a proper assessment of the country's conditions and its actual ability to comply with the standards required by the union's own legislation, we do not believe we can vote in favour of this agreement.
in writing. - i welcomed the conclusion of the association agreement between the european union and the republic of moldova, because in the light of the economic sanctions and destabilising actions implemented by russia against the republic of moldova, which have severely affected local producers and the country's economy, the agreement will create new opportunities for development and growth for moldovan businesses and citizens. i also welcome the intention of the republic of moldova to apply for membership of the european union in 2015 and hope that the country will continue, in light of the progress already made, with the reform of the judiciary and law enforcement, the restructuring of the anti-corruption framework and the national action plan on human rights, with a particular focus on the human rights of the roma people. i am in favour of the european parliament encouraging the moldovan authorities to facilitate a more competitive, transparent and free media market that adheres to eu standards on media freedom and pluralism. i also hope that an effective solution to the problem of transnistria's independence will be found as soon as possible.
in writing. - i'm very proud to have voted for this deal. i believe that the extension of the sphere of influence to the east is an important tactical choice to avoid having unstable zones on our borders from which we import crime. with this agreement, we reward the virtuous path of reforms undertaken by the moldovan government and pave the way for further improvements in the fight against corruption, the independence of the judiciary and media freedom.
in writing. - the lack of full conviction on the part of the population that it is advisable to sign the agreement, as well as the real possibility that the moldovan economy may suffer, as has already happened in other similar agreements recently signed with ukraine and georgia, leads me to abstain. firstly, since it is difficult to believe that these countries have an economy capable of withstanding european competition, it would have been appropriate to commission a study to that effect. secondly, in this case, a free trade agreement has particular implications because it would also cover the territory of transnistria, formally a moldovan region, but in practice an independent territory, which is famous for being the bazaar of europe for the illegal purchase and sale of arms and various other goods and products.
in writing. parliament expressed concern at russia's actions to undermine the association process of the countries of the eu's eastern neighbourhood, reiterated its conviction that the eu's eastern partners' association process does not constitute a threat to russia's political and economic interests, deplored the russian leadership's view of it as such, stressed that russia's concerns about the association process should be adequately addressed and explained in order to allay fears about the formation of new geopolitical blocs dividing the european continent, and stressed that each country has full right to make its own political choices, but that the eu's commitment to the eastern partners is aimed at spreading prosperity and increasing political stability, aspects of which the russian federation will ultimately benefit from.
in writing. - i consider the eu-moldova association agreement to be very important for the future economic and social growth and development of the republic of moldova. the agreement will create benefits for the business sector through the creation of new jobs, speeding up the process of integration of the aforementioned country with the dynamics of the eu internal market.
in writing. - i shall vote in favour of the report by mr petras auštrevičius. the continuing crisis in ukraine, the illegal annexation of crimea and the role played by russia pose a serious threat to european security as well as to the impact on eu-republic of moldova relations. a number of important initiatives have been implemented, such as the launch of visa-free travel for moldovan citizens, the conclusion of agreements on aviation, agriculture and civil protection, and the participation of the republic of moldova in eu agencies and programmes on common security and defence policy cooperation. i believe that the signing of the eu-republic of moldova association agreement is a tangible expression of the start of a serious democratic process.
in writing. - my vote in favour of the association agreement between the european union and the republic of moldova reflects a genuine appreciation of the efforts made so far by the authorities of the country. i welcome with great enthusiasm the progress that moldova has made so far in the area of justice and the fight against corruption, and i hope that responsible progress in the field of human rights will finally mark the process for its future welcome into the european family. yes, so that this agreement can serve as a prelude to strengthening the european perspective of the republic of moldova, not only in economic terms but also in political and social terms.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of the association agreement between the european union and the republic of moldova, because it represents a significant step forward in eu-republic of moldova relations and a commitment to political association and economic integration to regulate free market access between the two parties.
in writing. - as already stated in the debate in this chamber, once again this parliament is discussing the relations which the union is developing and strengthening with countries which, although they have firmly decided to reject russian pressure and look to europe as a future trade expansion, are still competing, especially in the agricultural field, with our producers. if the association agreement is to improve the internal human rights situation and to promote the reforms necessary for the democratic development of the country, then we can only be in favour of it, but if behind it is the need to implement as soon as possible one of the most comprehensive trade agreements that the eu has prepared and to continue to reduce duties on agricultural products entering our territories (at zero duty, with no reward for our producers), then more attention is needed. today's vote, which i abstained from, must serve to send a political message to russia, but it must also give hope to farmers who, with the entry of new fruit and vegetables such as apples, grapes and plums, will find it difficult to try to eliminate what has now been produced in excess after the russian embargo.
in writing. - we welcome the conclusion of the eu-moldova association agreement as, in the light of the approximation provisions contained therein, it may constitute one of the most ambitious free trade agreements the european union has ever concluded with a third country. the establishment of a 'comprehensive and deep free trade area' is one of the most significant mutual benefits of the agreement, and is of undisputed importance for trade and economic growth, job creation, prosperity and stability in the country. we are also confident that this new agreement will contribute to the modernisation of the country's economy and will be a stimulus for small and mediumsized enterprises. we believe that it is essential to ensure that parliament exercises its control. we therefore urge the commission to facilitate the regular and detailed monitoring of the implementation of the agreement by the european parliament in a timely manner.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, we are seeing significant progress in the republic of moldova in terms of reforms and the strengthening of its relations with the european union. furthermore, on the one hand, the conclusion of the association agreement is a function of a broader process of enhancing the european perspective of the republic of moldova at political, economic and social levels and, on the other hand, that agreement, which constitutes the precondition for the gradual integration of the republic of moldova into the eu policies linked to it, would have the effect of creating conditions for the country to fully exploit its potential. i have therefore voted in favour.
in writing. - the association agreement between the european union and moldova contains a trade pillar of major importance which will lead to the creation of a comprehensive free trade area with the eu. this agreement will create new opportunities for moldova in terms of growth and employment and, consequently, will bring about a natural modernisation of the economy with a positive impact on the country and its people. at the same time, the eu will have more direct trade channels and better investment opportunities in moldova. for these reasons i voted in favour. the eu gives a neighbouring country the chance to create a new future with better living conditions, closer to our standards. i am of course aware that this will be a long process which will require moldova to make great sacrifices on the road to reform and i hope that there will be a lasting and constant commitment from both partners to achieve an optimal result.
in writing. - i decided to vote against because the agreement contains a trade pillar that will lead to the creation of a comprehensive and deepened free trade area (dcfta) between the republic of moldova and the european union, which provides for the complete elimination of all import duties and the prohibition of export duties on all eu goods. only certain agricultural products will be subject to monitoring of trade flows. other areas covered by the agreement will be rules of origin, intellectual property and procurement.
in writing. - i vote against it . the agreement in question is part of the process of gradual rapprochement of the countries of the former eastern bloc with the european union which nato and the eu are pursuing against russia and at the expense of the interests of the peoples of europe, who have very little in common with and, let us say, to gain from these nations which are struggling to get on their feet and which we can already consider future candidates for the next enlargement.
in writing. - today i voted in favour of the eu-republic of moldova association agreement, which creates a so-called 'deep and comprehensive free trade area' (dcfta). the agreement will be the cornerstone of the enhanced political association and economic integration between the eu and the republic of moldova, ensuring mutual free market access. the ratification of the eu-republic of moldova association agreement is a clear recognition of the success of the country's political and economic reform process, which sets out its european perspective and demonstrates its determination to become a member of the european union.
in writing. - this association agreement is an important step in relations between the european union and moldova. i shall be there at the end of the month as a member of the delegation for relations with moldova to represent the european parliament in the election observation mission. it will be a further opportunity for me to see how much this agreement is a point of passage, not an arrival point. i voted in favour of the agreement in this spirit.
in writing. - the five star movement does not believe it supports an agreement whose free trade implications could include a territory like transnistria, formally still part of moldova but de facto a self-proclaimed independent republic, notorious for the freedom granted to many arms and drug traffickers to act with impunity. we believe that a political solution to this problem is an indispensable condition for the conclusion of the agreement and therefore we do not think we can vote in favour of it.
in writing. - i welcome the signing of the association agreement between the european union and the republic of moldova, containing a trade pillar leading to the creation of a deep and comprehensive free trade area (dcfta), as it constitutes one of the most ambitious free trade agreements the eu has ever concluded with a third country. the dcfta provides for liberalisation for most products from the eu side. this is one of the most significant mutual benefits of the agreement and is of major importance for trade and economic growth, job creation, prosperity and stability in the country. the association agreement also represents a step forward in eu-republic of moldova relations and a commitment to political association and economic integration. all this will have a long-term positive effect on the moldovan economy and will help improve the quality of life of its citizens.
in writing. - the commission considers that the association agreement will create trade opportunities in the eu and the republic of moldova and will foster real economic modernisation and progressive integration with the eu. the process should result in higher quality standards for products, better services for citizens and, above all, the ability of the republic of moldova to compete effectively on international markets. at the same time, an official from eubam, the european mission on the moldovan border, says that the transnistria region in moldova is a washing machine, importing goods of dubious origin and then repackaging them and reselling them to europe. that's why i decided to abstain.
in writing. - the conclusion of an association agreement between the european union and the republic of moldova, following the recent developments in ukraine, is a further step towards achieving full political and commercial integration on our continent. i therefore thought i should vote in favour of this agreement, in the belief that the european union and the republic of moldova can mutually benefit from the creation of a deep free trade area (dcfta). the agreement also demonstrates the determination of the republic of moldova to strengthen its relations with the european union. finally, i consider the provisional application of that agreement as of september 2014 to be particularly important, as it could mitigate the consequences of the import restrictions decided by russia also in respect of the republic of moldova.
in writing. - i vote in favour of the report by mr petras auštrevičius, which will lead to the creation of a comprehensive and deepened free trade area (dcfta) between the republic of moldova and the eu. i would also add that the ratification of the eu-republic of moldova association agreement is a clear recognition of the success of the country's political and economic reform process, which testifies to its determination to eventual accession to the european union.
in writing. - my vote in favour of the association agreement between the european union and the republic of moldova reflects a genuine appreciation of the efforts made so far by the authorities of the country to implement a reform programme fully in line with european expectations. i welcome with great enthusiasm the progress that moldova has made so far in the area of justice and the fight against corruption, and i hope that responsible progress in the field of human rights will finally mark the process for its future welcome into the european family. i hope, therefore, that this agreement will only serve as a prelude to strengthening the european perspective of the republic of moldova, not only in economic terms but also in political and social terms. this document, which marks the beginning of cooperation between the two parties not only from an economic point of view, confirms that european soft power, as an alternative to a coercive approach, makes the alliance with europe highly attractive, the best possible one.
in writing. - i thought i would vote in favour of the eu-republic of moldova association agreement, confident that it will create new trade opportunities in the eu and in the republic of moldova. in addition, both parties will benefit from the creation of a deep free trade area (dcfta).
in writing. the republic of moldova has made significant progress in reforms and in strengthening its relations with the european union. furthermore, on the one hand, the conclusion of the association agreement is a function of a broader process of enhancing the european perspective of the republic of moldova at political, economic and social levels and, on the other hand, that agreement, which constitutes the precondition for the gradual integration of the republic of moldova into the eu policies linked to it, would determine, as an effect, the creation of conditions for the country to fully exploit its potential. i have therefore voted in favour.
in writing. - the deep and comprehensive free trade agreement marks an important milestone in relations between the european union and moldova, considering that the conclusion of this agreement is part of a wider process which will strengthen moldova's european perspective both politically and socially and economically. closer ties with the eu will benefit the country and will certainly bring stability and the independence of institutions that can guarantee democracy, the rule of law and good governance. in addition, the country's participation in eu agencies and programmes on common security and defence policy cooperation will ensure greater protection of its borders, especially at a sensitive time like the one moldova is experiencing with an unstable border situation. with the signing of the agreement with the entire territory of the republic of moldova, i hope that a workable solution can be found to resolve the worrying situation that has been created for some time in the secessionist territory of transnistria. the elections on 30 november will be an important test to see whether the pro-european parties will have a stable majority.
in writing. - i decided to vote against because the report is totally unbalanced against russia. the crisis in ukraine, the illegal annexation of crimea and the role played by russia are considered to be a serious threat to european security and have changed the geopolitical situation, which also has repercussions for eu-republic of moldova relations. the authorities are also called upon to continue the effective implementation of the national human rights action plan, with particular attention to the human rights of the roma.
in writing. - i vote for it . the european parliament has been a useful instrument for the détente between the protestant and catholic communities in a land which has been tormented for years by serious conflict.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the peace process in northern ireland. since the good friday agreement of 1998 between the governments of the united kingdom and ireland, much progress has been made in terms of consolidating the peace balances. it is worrying that the implementation of the peace process has reached a deadlock and that the continued criminal activity of marginal elements risks jeopardising its continuation. over the past two decades, europe has offered its support for peacebuilding. in the light of the challenges that remain, i am convinced that europe must continue to play an active role in ensuring that the peace process in northern ireland is fully realised. in this process europe should play a leading role, coordinating the efforts of international partners such as the united states and canada, which have played an important role in supporting the implementation of the peace process. i believe that strengthening the progress made and promoting reconciliation in northern ireland and the regions around ireland is one of the priorities for europe.
in writing. - we welcome the progress made in the northern ireland peace process. in the current situation, there has already been an increase in foreign investment and a reduction in unemployment, although some important issues remain. we in the delegation hope very much that the process can be strengthened and continued, giving new impetus and momentum to the negotiations and guaranteeing equal rights to both communities.
in writing. - i voted unanimously in favour of this resolution. i think it is important that the eu intervenes wherever there are violent forms of protest within its territory, for whatever reason. at the same time, i believe that the eu must respect the principle of self-determination of peoples, without necessarily interfering in the internal affairs of the member states, but welcoming with open arms those european peoples who do not recognize themselves in their own state and respect, as a separate entity, the copenhagen criteria.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the peace process in northern ireland because i believe it is a priority for the european union to act as a promoter and mediator so that hostility and persecution of religious minorities in one of its member states is brought to a definitive end and a lasting peace is achieved between the opposing factions after a conflict that has been going on for almost a century. i hope that the european institutions, building on the many efforts already undertaken, such as the programme for peace and reconciliation in northern ireland known as 'peace iii', and taking into account the various agreements already concluded, such as the belfast agreement, reached in multilateral negotiations and signed on 10 april 1998, the weston park agreement of 2001, the agreement reached in the multilateral negotiations held in saint andrews, fife, scotland, from 11 to 13 october 2006, between the two governments and all the main parties in northern ireland, and the hillsborough agreement of 27 september 2008, will continue to encourage dialogue and reconciliation between nationalists and unionists to allow the start of a phase of development and reconciliation, as well as to promote the economic and social progress of northern ireland.
in writing. - today's vote is another positive step in the peace process. at this moment in northern ireland it is conceivable that the word peace is acquiring a lasting connotation. it took a great deal of effort and great mediation skills to get to this point. i remain of the opinion that we have a very good chance of replacing violence and terror with peace and democracy once and for all.
in writing. - twenty-five years after the signing of the good friday agreement, a decisive breakthrough is needed, without which the settlement of the conflict risks being jeopardised. the continuing economic crisis, with its devastating social effects, has given new life and motivation to those who believe that the only solution lies in violent, criminal and antisocial activities. it is our duty to prevent these minorities and marginal groups from undermining the peace process. to do so, we must recognize that they draw their strength and support from their inability to provide concrete and visible answers to the growing social distress caused by unemployment and low income levels. once again, and i almost regret having to stress and reiterate it, we are witnessing the effects of a reckless policy which has forgotten the needs and demands of so many women and men, who react with anger and become easy prey for exalted and unscrupulous minds, who bend this anger to criminal ends. this is no longer acceptable. we must prevent europe from becoming a hostage to dangerous subversions and we must give the people back the real hope of growth and jobs. otherwise our words will have little effect against populism and extremism.
in writing. - the current economic depression has been a major factor in the slowdown of the peace process in northern ireland, as it has swept away twenty years of prosperity like an earthquake. it is clear that the reduction in resources for development and détente projects is one of the main causes of the increase in criminal and violent actions we are facing today. today, with this resolution, we want to give further positive support to the peace process. certainly, more leadership will be needed to build lasting peace, but we have the best prospect ever seen in a generation to replace violence with peace and democracy. we cannot therefore refrain from urging all parties concerned to participate in the talks which began on 16 october to resolve the outstanding issues in order to support the functioning and stability of the democratic institutions of northern ireland. it is therefore a matter of course to ask that the eur 150 million provided for in the eu peace programme be used effectively to improve relations between communities and promote economic and social development in both the north and the south.
in writing. - i shall vote in favour of the european parliament's resolution on the peace process in northern ireland. the european union is also committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy, which will be based on the principles of the treaty of rome and the treaty of rome. for these reasons, i believe that europe, coordinating the efforts of its international partners, must continue to actively support the realisation of a genuine peace process in northern ireland.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the peace process in northern ireland. i believe that it is one of europe's priorities to continue to work hard to consolidate peace between the catholic and protestant communities so that reconciliation in northern ireland is fully achieved.
in writing. - i have expressed my support for the resolution on the northern ireland peace process, as it reflects a real desire to end all the conflicts within the european union. i particularly appreciated the clear reference in the report to the need to combat criminal activity within the area through strong support for the economy and the fight against unemployment. i hope that this document will send an important signal to the parties involved in the peace process.
in writing. - it is essential that all violent conflicts within the european union be brought to an end. in this regard, the efforts of the peace programme to guide european countries towards a peaceful and stable society and to promote reconciliation between peoples, the support of the european regional development fund and, in particular, the eur 150 million allocated to the peace programme to address the priority issues in northern ireland and the surrounding counties of ireland, for the benefit of all the people living in those areas, should be acknowledged. in recent years there have been numerous political crises, including threats from opposition groups, which have led to a stalemate in the northern ireland peace process. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. - in recent years the peace agreement has been jeopardized by problems between the parties sitting in the house, by tensions over issues of national identity and, lastly, by the result of the scottish referendum which has reignited the latent problems in northern ireland. the joint resolution of the european parliament, for which i voted in favour, is intended to ensure that the peace process, which is currently at a standstill, is resumed in a more decisive way so that agreement can be reached on the outstanding issues and with the aim of finding a lasting solution shared by all the parties involved. i regret that marginal elements, advocates of violent and sometimes criminal activity, can delay the reconciliation and dialogue of an entire community which, among other things, would bring benefits to northern ireland in terms of economic growth and reduction of unemployment, helping to reduce regional disparities.
in writing. - in pursuance of ankara's economic interests, the turkish oil exploration vessel barbaros entered the exclusive economic zone (eez) of the republic of cyprus on the morning of 20 october, in violation of international and european maritime law. turkish entry was preempted by the maritime directive (navtex) issued by turkey earlier this month, which prompted cypriot president anastasiades to suspend talks with his turkish cypriot counterpart for the reunification of the island. the directive authorizes the barbaros to commence exploration within the boundaries of the cyprus eez. the turkish directive comes into force on the same day that russian naval units armed with missiles begin exercises in the waters off the southern coast of the island as agreed with nicosia, before ankara issued its navtex. this unprecedented provocation by turkey can only be seen as a confirmation of the ambiguity of turkey's position, already highlighted by other contemporary behaviour which demonstrates the absolute unreliability of turkey for europe and, more generally, for the west.
in writing. - abstention from the vote: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on turkey's actions creating tensions in the exclusive economic zone of cyprus. these unilateral actions by turkey are not to be underestimated and deserve a lot of attention, given that turkey is a candidate country for accession to the european union. these actions have already led to the suspension of peace talks between cyprus and the turkish-controlled north of the island. i therefore believe it is important that turkey withdraw its warships immediately, so as to create the conditions for the resumption of peace talks with cyprus. i also believe that turkey's actions cannot but lead this parliament to a wider reflection on turkey's own application to become a member of the eu. i hope, therefore, that this resolution will encourage the european parliament and the european commission to intensify their monitoring of turkey's activities in the exclusive economic zone of cyprus and to intensify their dialogue with turkey itself in order to achieve full normalization of relations with all the member states.
in writing. - turkey has failed to comply with its obligations under the law of the sea treaties and has openly violated the exclusive economic zone of the republic of cyprus. such behaviour does not favour a country which is a candidate for membership of the european union, which has a duty to pursue a foreign policy consistent with that of the union itself. we demand that the sovereignty of the republic of cyprus be respected.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this urgent resolution, convinced that europe's peace-making action can serve as a stimulus to the already tense relations between cyprus and turkey. the ban on shipping imposed by turkey, which is disadvantaging cyprus and its exclusive economic zone by blocking state investments and major european companies, seems to be a pretext. both states must exercise restraint and act in accordance with international law, facilitating good neighbourly relations and seeking a peaceful settlement of all long-standing disputes. let cyprus, from the farthest corner of our union, be a bridge across the borders of the mediterranean!
in writing. - cyprus's sovereignty must be respected without conditions. i know that turkey is an important partner for the eu, although in recent years it has deviated a little from the path of eu accession that it had embarked on, and i know that it is now a strategic place in view of the threats coming from the middle east. at the same time, agreements must be respected and no exceptions must be granted. what i have in mind is peace, and my vote went in that direction.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on turkish actions in the cyprus economic zone, joining the conclusions of the european council of 24 october, which called on turkey to respect the sovereignty of cyprus over its territorial waters and the related rights in its exclusive economic zone. the navtex permit issued by the turkish authorities to allow an oil company to carry out seismic surveys has rightly caused great concern in nicosia and in all the member states, because ankara's behaviour, in addition to interfering with cypriot sovereignty, has not taken into account the cooperation agreements between cyprus and turkey for the equitable distribution of resources. the claims made by turkey appear to be in conflict with international law, including the un convention on the law of the sea (unclos), ratified by the eu, which sets out rules governing the uses of the oceans and their resources. i believe it is necessary and a priority for the eu to achieve a final peace between the island of cyprus and turkey, and i call on ankara to recognise the right of cyprus to exist. at the same time, it is strategically important for the eu to cultivate a good relationship with ankara and to protect cypriot sovereignty.
in writing. - i am firmly opposed to the exploitation of fossil fuels, and i have signed and voted in favour of the european parliament's resolution on turkey's actions creating tensions in the exclusive economic zone of the republic of cyprus. turkey must act in accordance with international law, immediately revoke its maritime directive, refrain from any violation of the sovereign rights of the republic of cyprus and exercise restraint. the escalation of threats and unilateral actions by turkey against the republic of cyprus in relation to the eez is unacceptable. turkey shall respect and fully implement the declaration of the european community and its member states of 21 september 2005, including the provision that recognition by all member states is a necessary component of the accession process.
in writing. - turkey's accession to the union would be an important step forward and an essential part of the completion of the european geopolitical framework. this consideration, however, must not be allowed to slip from our minds, and above all it must not make the union itself weak in the face of the continuing provocations and unilateral acts, which sometimes take the form of real threats, which the turkish government repeats to the detriment of member states and international law (in addition, of course, to respect for human rights and minorities). in reality, what has happened is unacceptable, because the turkish government has deliberately sought to violate international law and, above all, to reiterate its utter contempt for a sovereign state. the union, for its part, must express its position and the right to express a foreign policy which, with authority, assert its interests, in full respect of all the requirements of international law. the turkish government must be aware that these actions may have negative consequences for the whole process of approximation and accession. on the other hand, it is legitimate for europe to demand that turkey immediately cease its acts of intimidation and return to the level of respect for international law.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on turkey's actions creating tensions in the exclusive economic zone (eez) of cyprus. turkey has sent ships to the area off the southern coast of the island, with the aim of collecting data useful for hydrocarbon exploration until 30 december. i believe that turkey must withdraw its ships so that the infringement of cypriot sovereign rights can be brought to an end and peace talks can be facilitated.
in writing. - the republic of cyprus has the sovereign right to explore natural resources within its eez. at the same time, any turkish vessels detected within its vicinity should be withdrawn. any violation and/or threat to the republic of cyprus must necessarily be denounced, in the light of the fact that the claims and actions taken by turkey have no legal basis and are in direct conflict with international law. i am voting in favour of this because the continuation and/or repetition of these actions could also have a negative impact on turkey's relations with the union. in this context, turkey has a duty to ensure good neighbourly relations with the republic of cyprus.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on turkey's actions creating tensions in the exclusive economic zone of cyprus. in view of turkey's application for membership of the european union, i believe it is necessary for turkey to withdraw its warships promptly so that conditions can be restored for the speedy resumption of peace talks with cyprus and for dialogue between peoples. turkey must act in accordance with international law.
in writing. - we are concerned about turkey's attitude towards cyprus, which is being implemented at a critical stage in the negotiating process. the entry of the turkish ship barbaros, which collects data useful for hydrocarbon exploration, into the exclusive economic zone (eez) off the southern coast of the island, announcing its stay until 30 december, violates nicosia's sovereignty over this part of the sea. the turkish government has not yet been able to reach a satisfactory agreement on the terms of the accession negotiations with the european union. finally, in order to resolve the difficult cyprus problem, we call on both communities in cyprus, greece and turkey itself to intensify their efforts to resume negotiations as soon as possible and to avoid potentially provocative actions.
in writing. - the european parliament resolution on turkey's actions in the exclusive economic zone of the republic of cyprus is of fundamental importance in order to ensure that turkey not only recognizes the existence of the republic of cyprus but also its legitimate right to explore and exploit the natural resources in the exclusive economic zone (eez). turkey must demonstrate that it is acting in accordance with international law and must cease its provocative actions within the eez as soon as possible. the resolution also supports the right of the republic of cyprus to complain to the united nations and the international maritime organisation about systematic violations on its territory and in its sovereign waters. for these reasons, i voted in favour of the resolution.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, with the navigational telex directive, turkey has reserved a very large area of the cypriot exclusive economic zone for seismic surveys. these seismic readings concern an area that the government of the republic of cyprus has allocated to korea gas corporation and eni for the exploration of possible hydrocarbon reserves. despite repeated calls from the eu, the turkish state continues to challenge the existence of the republic of cyprus and its legitimate right to explore and exploit the natural resources on its territory. the demands and actions of turkey have no legal basis and are in direct conflict with international law. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. - the joint resolution of the european parliament was the result of a turkish maritime directive which identified blocks, under the exclusive jurisdiction of the republic of cyprus, where seismic surveys could be carried out on behalf of a turkish company. in that area, the italian energy company (eni) had begun drilling for possible hydrocarbon reserves in the seabed. it is clear that the presence of the turkish vessel patrolling that area has created quite a few problems and unjustified delays in the eni's search. we should also remember that there are already cooperation agreements for a fair distribution of resources between turkey and cyprus, and the one we are talking about is the exclusive economic zone of cyprus. the presence of the turkish vessel interferes with cypriot sovereignty and is also in conflict with the united nations convention on the law of the sea. i voted in favour of the resolution in the hope that it will make an effective contribution to the peaceful settlement of the problem and that everything will soon return to normal.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i wanted to strengthen my vote in favour of the motion for a resolution because, as we saw in the debate yesterday, the situation in south sudan is still very serious. despite the resolution, the fighting has not stopped. according to media estimates, almost a million people are at risk of being trapped even further with the arrival of the rainy season. the camps and especially the 650,000 refugees currently housed in ethiopia are in danger of a humanitarian catastrophe, since they are surviving mainly on aid from the un food programme. we must emphatically reiterate here our full support for the embargo and for the united nations to give its firm and convinced support to a matter on which we must continue to keep our attention.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, with this resolution parliament is making a strong appeal to the international community to find a firm solution to the conflict in south sudan. the region has been ravaged by war for too long. two decades of conflict and two million dead. the country's independence on july 9, 2011, gave hope to the south sudanese people, but it already contained the seeds of subsequent social divisions. we cannot stand by and watch another humanitarian emergency. we cannot allow thousands of children to be excluded from the education system and we cannot tolerate any more the repeated attacks and violence of all kinds against refugees, displaced persons, women and children. we therefore strongly urge the international community to commit itself to forcing all the actors to put an end to the conflict, a conflict which inevitably involves the whole region, the neighbouring countries and the militias already deployed. it is essential that all civil society, and in particular women, participate in the peace negotiations and develop post-conflict solutions that will allow the reconstruction of the country. we also call for an international arms embargo, which has been in force for years, and for respect for human rights. finally, mr president, we encourage the government of south sudan to ratify the cotonou agreement between the eu and the african, caribbean and pacific group of states.
in writing. - abstention from the vote: as usual, the european union is trying to go beyond its own aims, objectives and competences, which should be primarily the safeguarding of the interests of european citizens, by once again becoming a missionary for all the most desperate humanitarian causes in the world.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament's resolution on the humanitarian situation in south sudan. i believe that the acts of cruelty and violence which have led to the deaths of over 10 000 people must be strongly condemned, as must the deportation of hundreds of thousands of people. in view of the gravity of the situation, humanitarian aid and food aid cannot be delayed and must be provided on the basis of primary needs, with neutrality, independence and impartiality. i also cannot help but join in the call for a transparent, detailed and comprehensive international investigation into the humanitarian and war crimes that have occurred in south sudan. i hope that the eu will support a long-term development strategy for the country's rebirth, helping it to support a transition to peace and stability that would allow people to recover a normal life, with the return to abandoned farms, the reopening of markets and the reconstruction of homes.
in writing. - the delegation of the five star movement votes in favour of the resolution on south sudan, which seeks to protect all oppressed people in a country where executions and massacres are unfortunately the order of the day. each faction is committing unspeakable atrocities, including against women and children, and a humanitarian tragedy is just around the corner. we call on the union to take serious action against those responsible for the conflict and those who are fuelling it by subsidising it and supplying arms.
in writing. - in a continent where emergencies are multiplying, south sudan is a place that, unfortunately, is shining. the humanitarian situation is tragic to say the least, and it is the duty of anyone with a heart to contribute, with his own means, not necessarily to solve the problem but at least to stem the terrible catastrophe. the eu does what it can, and this resolution confirms a commitment that i also believe in.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the humanitarian situation in south sudan. a political solution must be found to pave the way for democratically agreed institutions to build the new state formed after the independence referendum. despite the fact that the parties to the conflict began negotiations on 7 january 2014, agreeing to the cessation of hostilities, the opening of humanitarian corridors, the release of political prisoners and the protection of civilians, clashes continue. the eu, member states and the commission provided assistance worth over €254 million in 2014, and in september the commission announced an increase of €20 million for aid. since the outbreak of war in december 2013, some 1.4 million people have been displaced, and hundreds of thousands of children are at risk of dying from hunger and disease or being conscripted as soldiers. the food crisis, which affects some 1.5 million people, should not be underestimated either, and could be solved, or rather "alleviated", by sending basic necessities. it is therefore necessary to step up humanitarian aid to south sudan in order to ensure that the situation in the country is stabilised as soon as possible.
in writing. - in order to condemn the growing violence in south sudan, i could not but vote in favour of this resolution, also to strongly condemn the extrajudicial executions and mass killings, the violations of human rights (including those against refugees and displaced persons, women, people belonging to vulnerable groups and journalists), the arbitrary arrests and detentions, the enforced disappearances, the ill-treatment and torture at the hands of all parties to the conflict. i have given my full support to this resolution in order to protect women's rights, to promote access to quality education and health services, including access to contraception and hiv/aids testing and treatment. my vote in favour is also in favour of the right to abortion. i am voting in favour of this resolution to ensure that those responsible for violations of human rights and international humanitarian law are held to account for their actions.
in writing. - with this resolution we, as the european parliament, have called on the international community to find a solution to the conflict in south sudan. for almost a year, this region has been ravaged by a civil war that has caused a humanitarian emergency involving nearly 2 million people. now, with the end of the "rainy season", the fighting has resumed with great violence, resulting in hundreds of new casualties. that is why we call on the united nations and the international community to make a strong effort to find a solution to end the conflict.
in writing. - i shall vote in favour of the european parliament's resolution on the humanitarian situation in south sudan. i believe that the acts of violence which have resulted in the deaths of some 10,000 people must be condemned. the situation requires us to intervene by providing humanitarian aid and food aid to meet the basic needs of these peoples. i hope that europe can help the recovery of this country by providing support to ensure that abandoned farming activities are restored and that houses destroyed by violence are rebuilt.
in writing. - in the territories of sudan and south sudan over 10,000 people have been killed during months of fighting. acts of cruelty and sexual violence have reached alarming numbers. child soldiers continue to be recruited in south sudan. at the same time, the tragic food situation caused by the conflict has been worsened by frequent natural disasters. my vote in favour of the motion for a resolution signed by mrs zeller is based on the idea that the european union has a duty to offer the fullest possible support to both countries by reprogramming aid to the benefit of the people who live there.
in writing. - as already stated during the debate in this house, south sudan is one of the least developed countries in the world, ranking second in the final global vulnerability assessment index. the current crisis, largely caused by armed conflict, has exposed the population to serious abuses by military groups, supported by political actors, against civilians. in addition, there is a famine coming and a worrying cholera epidemic already under way. i therefore welcome the outcome of the 28th igad extraordinary summit of heads of state and government, held on 7 november, at which the government of south sudan and the opposition faction of the sudan people's liberation movement signed a resolution, committing themselves unconditionally and immediately to an end to hostilities. the mediation achieved an important milestone and the eu must continue to assist igad, both in substantive and financial terms, by continuing to provide personnel to monitor the ceasefire. for the reasons i have just given, i voted in favour of the agreement.
in writing. - we wish to express our strong condemnation of the renewed violence and repeated violations in south sudan and urge all parties to engage constructively in the addis ababa peace talks. we are deeply concerned by the ethnic dimension of the conflict, which is in total violation of all the basic principles of a democratic state based on the rule of law and in contravention of all the rules of international law. the european union and its member states call on the government of south sudan to take all necessary steps to ensure that the peace process in south sudan is completed. we hereby pledge our support for a process of national reconciliation in the interests of the entire population of south sudan.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, as a result of the civil conflict, the humanitarian situation in south sudan has worsened considerably and is likely to affect a much wider area than an already volatile region. the european union has so far mobilised the necessary resources to provide an immediate response to the worsening humanitarian situation in the country. the resumption of dialogue between the parties is a necessary condition for the start of the reconciliation process in the country and for ensuring the protection and well-being of civilians. i have therefore voted in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution on south sudan, where almost 1.9 million people have been displaced since fighting broke out in december 2013, where extrajudicial executions and mass killings are taking place on a daily basis and where the most basic human rights are being systematically trampled underfoot. i am thinking in particular of the rights of children, women and refugees and all people belonging to vulnerable groups, but also of journalists subject to arbitrary arrest and detention. the forced disappearances, ill-treatment and torture at the hands of all parties to the conflict must cease. i am voting in favour of this resolution to ensure that those responsible for violations of human rights and international humanitarian law are held to account for their actions.
in writing. - the humanitarian situation in south sudan, particularly as a result of the events of the last few months of violent fighting in which a very large number of people have been killed, is becoming, in my view, increasingly worrying and i do not see any positive developments in the short term in a fragile and newly formed country and in a highly unstable area. the resolution, for which i voted in favour, will certainly help the negotiating parties to try in a more thoughtful way to find a solution that leads to peace, despite the fact that the current conditions are not good, where brutal violence has been happening recently and i also find it disconsolatory that in a country with enormous natural wealth and strong oil exports there is such a rate of poverty and an unequal distribution of wealth that it is leading to a terrible humanitarian crisis. i also hope that the government will ratify the cotonou agreement between the eu and the african, caribbean and pacific group of states and that the co-chairs of the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly will soon be able to meet with the representatives of south sudan.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in view of the importance of the subject in terms of social and employment aspects and given that this union was originally created as a common market for coal and steel, on behalf of the efdd group i would ask that the item on the agenda for wednesday, 'commission statement on the situation of the steel industry', be changed to 'steel industry in the european union - protecting workers and industries' and that there be the possibility of a resolution to be voted on in december to give the necessary time for its negotiation.
author of the book. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in the past few days, reading the comments and statements of many colleagues, i seemed to understand that everyone was very irritated by this embarrassing situation involving the newly elected president juncker. i would therefore expect broad and unconditional support for this motion. but i am afraid that the situation will be different because this house has proved over the years to be the temple of european hypocrisy. let me make a quick recap, starting with the gue comrades who perhaps have not noticed that we have just celebrated the 25th anniversary of the fall of the berlin wall and that perhaps we should also cooperate with those whom they consider untouchable, by virtue of their supposed moral superiority. it should be clear that we do not accept lessons in democracy from anyone, because we have seen in these months what the concept of democracy is here, which is very different for us and we are proud of it. i would like to say to my green colleagues that the time has come to choose which side they will take, either with the grand coalition that is governing europe, or with us to change it. you have to make a decision. you can't keep having your foot in two shoes. the liberal group has made a clear choice, and after the european elections they are now completely subservient to the socialists and the popular party. but i would expect a proud gesture from them, who are traditionally strongly pro-european, because juncker has shown that he is the antithesis of european ideals. but i would like to dwell for a moment on my socialist colleagues and their president, mr pittella, who said in recent days that he wanted an explanation from mr juncker or he would not trust him. i ask you: is he satisfied with juncker's lack of answers? how can you believe that he will do what he theoretically promises when, in fact, he has always acted in the opposite way? president pittella, you asked whether juncker was on the side of the citizens or on the side of tax evaders. we all know very well where juncker stands, and it is certainly not the european citizens, from whom he has taken billions of potential resources as prime minister of the grand duchy and put them in the pockets of the multinationals. i find it paradoxical that we, the so-called eurosceptics, are the only ones left to defend the interests of the european citizens and the very dignity of europe. you only care about and defend the interests of juncker's friends, that is, the big multinationals with capital and the big powers. president juncker, you are the worst image of this europe. as head of the eurogroup, you supported all the failed european policies, and at the same time as you starved greece, you were embezzling billions from your european partners through deals with the big international giants. if you had any dignity, you should leave. you have shown that you do not have the credibility to represent the europeans. with this motion we can give that strong signal of change that europe needs. we are giving you all the opportunity to demonstrate that this parliament, the only institution legitimized by the people, protects the interests of the citizens and not those of the multinationals and the banks, the powerful.
i think it is a bit surreal that the illustration of a motion of censure, instead of explaining the reasons for censure, is a sum of insults to political groups and individual members of parliament, who have only one defect, that of having the head to think for themselves, of wanting to decide what they want to do about a motion of censure in relation to the concrete things that are proposed. i don't usually respond to insults, because there's an old saying: "he who spits in the air is guilty", but there is one thing that deserves an answer and that is the accusation to this house. you see, there are hundreds of colleagues here who often disagree with each other, but who have always defended and exalted the dignity and prestige of the european parliament. the european parliament is the only supranational institution elected directly by the citizens, and we are here representing millions of citizens. (in response to verbal aggression conducted off-microphone by mr. agea) you should be educated first, because the first rule is education. i did not respond to my colleague when he attacked my group and me. and you are a tramp! today's vote of no confidence in the european parliament could make history against its will: i don't think it's ever happened before that an executive is discredited 24 days after taking office. let's see what happens if we send all the commissioners home. the $300 billion investment plan that will be announced in two days would be a bust. we would thus be destroying europe's last chance to create jobs and fight the crisis. extensive negotiations between member states to appoint the new commission would be resumed. months would be spent forming a new college, and in the meantime the european economy and society would collapse. if we don't get answers, unemployment will explode. our continent would sink into deflation, perhaps that is what you want? maybe that's the status quo, the swamp, the lack of answers that you want? we're not staying here! mr president, ladies and gentlemen, what you have to fear today is a motion of censure by the citizens. if we don't do something about the crisis, we'll all be wiped out! and so i say to you: get to work! let's get to work, launch the investment plan! let's get to work, to fight tax evasion and avoidance! the practices of multinational corporations evading and avoiding taxes with the complicity of too many governments are very serious. we asked you about this two weeks ago, mr president, and you assured us that everything would be done to harmonize our tax systems and you convinced us of the substance. we didn't give her a trust deed. we have given it a certificate and a confidence based on the merits of its proposals and we will monitor this. we're not waking up now! we did not have to wait for some headlines to expose the dubious tax practices of corporations and governments. parliament has worked. i have reminded you of the proposals contained in a report of the european parliament adopted during the last parliamentary term: the commission has already made a number of proposals which we shall take up and leave to the wise work of the economic committee of the european parliament. this is the serious way to combat a great scourge such as tax evasion and avoidance. but this is also the right way to get a government, a commission and a european president to work in the interests of our fellow citizens.
member of the commission. - mr president, i am tempted to respond only to mrs le pen, who fills me with tenderness every time she speaks in this house. i would like to make a few comments on the debate that has been held. mrs zimmer, you are the reason for the system. what is the right to life? you have also pointed out, like many other colleagues, that the system you have set up in my name is actually the result of widely differing national tax laws in the whole of europe. you also create a system whose origin i do not know, which i have not systematized, but which arises from the different tax regulations in our member states, not in my name! i have said and repeated before you that the commission which i have the honour of chairing will fight tax evasion and tax fraud. i said to you less than 15 days ago what instruments we are going to use to ensure that such phenomena of non-taxation can no longer occur because they do not correspond to the normally accepted requirements of ethics and morality. i have asked my colleague, mr moscovici, to draw up a directive which will ensure that there is now an automatic exchange of information between us, between the 28 member states, on advance tax rulings. i understand that all the groups support this approach, but i have not heard a single voice saying that it should not be taken. i therefore hope that in your countries, in your parties, in your national parliaments, you will be able to exert a great deal of influence so that the 28 member states will accompany the commission on this path. i'm counting on you. it is not enough to make pathetic appeals to me, it is necessary to ensure that in each country a consensus is established around the idea that an automatic exchange of information will be necessary in the field of advance taxation decisions. when i proposed in brisbane, australia, that this rule be made a global rule, i noticed that the enthusiasm of others was very restrained. we must therefore all work to ensure that there is a consensus on this idea. i understand that all the groups in this house, all the members of this house, will support me when i ask the italian presidency and those that follow it to set up, at the level of the council of ministers and the member states, a tax group which will ensure that the requirements arising from the code of good conduct against unfair tax competition, which we set up in 1997, are strictly applied. in 2005, this idea was rejected when i proposed it. today i see that all the members of the european parliament agree that a tax committee should be set up, on an equal footing with the economic and financial committee, to ensure that the rules are properly applied and to accompany the council of ministers for economic and financial affairs in making proposals for the introduction of this system. i am advocating tax harmonization, which is not an advocacy against tax competition. tax competition is healthy, but it is unhealthy when it is exercised unfairly. the commission, which i have the honour of chairing, will fight unfair tax competition with all its strength. do not doubt my word. i am speaking to a european parliament. i am speaking to the european parliament when i commit myself, on behalf of the commission, to implementing one of the basic elements of the programme i have presented to you and on which i was elected. i intend to stick to it and i hope all the commissioners will stick to it, which they will. and i am confident that all those who have invested in the commission that i chair will see to it that the commission's programme is implemented, both in principle and in detail. that's my commitment. i have a contract with parliament. i was elected on a $300 billion investment program, which i will have the honor of presenting to you on wednesday morning. i was elected on the basis of basic principles which concern the functioning of european democracy. i was elected on a draft of tax rules that i intend to implement and i would like all those who know about the subject - and there are many of them because they have been prime ministers, finance ministers, national mps - to support me in this process. i say this most solemnly...
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
in writing. i have in any case supported this motion of censure first by my signature on its submission and then by a vote in favour. if today, as president of the new european commission, jean-claude juncker preaches ethics and morality in european finance, let us not forget that when he was prime minister of luxembourg he ran a system which, by facilitating banks and multinationals, stole millions of euros from taxes destined for the member states' coffers. these are the facts, and all the rhetoric that will be used to cover them up will not erase them. the new european commission has lost all credibility.
written. mr president, we supported today's motion of censure because we do not accept the 'sponge-punch' you are trying to deliver on the system of tax havens, of favourable positions, built up over the years from luxembourg, a system of which you are the main architect. the commission's proposals are not enough to make up for the shortcomings of the past. today he begins his term as president of the commission, chosen by the europe of the powers as the highest representative and promoter of austerity policies, charged with perpetuating the policies of social slaughter in the name of the euro and the european 'single thought'. it does so with a guilty conscience, knowing that it has deliberately favoured over 300 large international groups in its own home, causing serious imbalances and damage to the european internal market. we await the work of the necessary commission of inquiry, which will have to shed full light on this scandalous affair and on an uncomfortable past which, in any case, will be carried along during its entire term of office.
the agenda includes the report by mr davor ivo stier, on behalf of the committee on development, on the eu and the global development framework after 2015 (2014/2143(ini)) (a8-0037/2014).
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are very pleased to be able to present this report to the house today. with the rapporteur, mr stier, and the other shadows and all the colleagues who have contributed, we have done a tremendous amount of work in a very short time, in a spirit of collaboration and with an awareness of the importance of this report which will be the position of this parliament on the definition of the sustainable development goals which will be negotiated at the united nations next year. it is an ambitious and balanced report which has been supported by a very large majority in committee. it is essential that it should have an equally strong majority in this house so that it can present a united position of parliament and influence the conclusions of the council in mid-december. as an s&d group we have placed great emphasis on human rights, which must be at the heart of the new framework, insisting on the principle of non-discrimination and attention to the most vulnerable, as well as minorities, the lgbt community and people with disabilities. we wanted to emphasise the importance of a new global partnership, underlining the universality of the new objectives, the real novelty and the real challenge for the coming years. it is no longer an agenda for developing countries, but shared objectives that apply to all states, including those of the union. we have put the european union's leading role in the future negotiations at the centre of our attention, a role which will become all the more decisive the more it is able to speak with a single, united and strong voice. we wanted to make the fight against all inequalities a top priority of the new agenda, alongside poverty eradication and sustainable development. europe can and must take on the task of promoting a firm fight against inequalities on a global scale, also by setting an example. inequalities that have increased dramatically both within and between states, and which are linked to many of the great challenges we face every day in emergencies, such as migration flows. it is also important to stress inequalities because one of the criticisms of the previous millennium goals is that, although progress has been made, it has been unevenly distributed among different social groups. that is why we clearly support in the report the proposal of the open working group to have a stand-alone objective on reducing inequalities. we wanted to build on the work of the open working group and believe that the objectives should not be reduced but that, if they are to be reorganised, they should not be at the expense of the more ambitious and innovative objectives, including the one on the equality agenda. as a member of the femm committee i am glad that the opinion of the committee has been taken into account and the report makes a strong point, as my predecessors have said, of the central role of women in development policies and the full respect of their rights, including sexual and reproductive rights. many others are the innovative and courageous aspects: the fight against poverty, for example, which we call for not to be measured solely on the basis of income but to consider broader measures of progress and well-being, as well as the desirable raising of the poverty line to two dollars a day; climate change and the need to move with determination and courage towards sustainable production and consumption patterns at last; universal access to quality health and education for all; the need to combat corruption, tax evasion and avoidance, which rob countries of essential resources, including through innovative forms of financing such as the financial transaction tax; and finally the important role of civil society, organisations, local authorities and national parliaments in the new framework, which will be all the stronger the more it is shared and built by more hands. in this regard, we have stressed the need for all actors involved, including the private sector, to be guided at all times by the objectives of development cooperation, respect for human rights, protection of workers and the environment and the principles of transparency and accountability. it is a strong and ambitious report, which we hope will receive the widest possible support from our colleagues (also because next year will be the european year of development), in the knowledge that we are also going to vote on the future of our cooperation policy and in the hope that the union, also with the contribution of the high representative, commissioner mimica and the president of the european council, will be able to make its voice heard in the community of states, in support of a world not only free of poverty, hunger and disease but also fairer, more equal and more attentive to sustainable development and the rights of everyone, because i believe that this is the responsibility we have towards the new generations. (the speaker agrees to answer a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
answer to a blue-card question. there is an important part of the report that is dedicated to disaster risk reduction (in the original language of the colleague), which is why we have also insisted on the issues of accountability and transparency of all funds and aid. it is certainly a very important subject and is covered in the report.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we very much appreciate the report we are discussing today and we believe that a great deal of work has been done. we believe, however, that environmental sustainability and its impact on human development must be central to the post-2015 development framework. the fight against climate change is a prerequisite for overcoming poverty and ensuring food security and sustainable development. climate change is not just an environmental problem, but it has many effects on a country's health, development and economy. for many developing countries that are not able to manage their risks, reducing climate change means mitigating the risk of natural disasters that directly affect the lives and poverty levels of those areas. we call on the european union, in setting its negotiating strategy for the post-2015 development goals, to place the fight against climate change and actions to address it firmly among its priorities.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in recent years, important steps have been taken towards the achievement of the millennium development goals. unfortunately, in many countries the goal is still far off. even where progress has been considerable, it has not led to the elimination of very high levels of inequality. certain groups, such as those living in slums or peripheral regions, religious minorities and people with disabilities, continue to be excluded from the achievement of these objectives. i believe that understanding the reason for this exclusion is crucial to making development efforts more effective and inclusive in the future. the feelings of exclusion and alienation that result from this situation can undermine social cohesion and generate disorder and conflict. so i think the global development framework should reflect a greater awareness of the fundamental importance of inclusion: no person, regardless of ethnicity, geography, disability or race, can be denied universal human rights and basic economic opportunities. the european union must lead the process of defining the new development framework with a balance between poverty eradication and the fight against inequalities, with a particular focus on inclusion, which i hope will be an essential element for the implementation of the framework.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday 25 november 2014 at 12.00 noon.
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on delays in the start-up of cohesion policy for 2014-2020 by iskra mihaylova on behalf of the committee on regional development (o-000082/2014 – b8-0042/2014).
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i will begin by quoting some data from eurostat and dg regio. between 2008 and 2013, public investment across the european union decreased by 20% in real terms. in some countries, such as greece, spain and ireland, the decline was close to 60%. without cohesion policy, investment in the member states most affected by the crisis would have fallen by a further 50%. the role of the european structural and investment funds is therefore all the more essential, also in view of the cuts made by the member states to reduce budget deficits. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the common organization of the market in bananas is a very good one. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval, and the council will be consulted on the matter. i come from a region, puglia, and from a part of italy, the south, where there have already been serious inefficiencies resulting in the dispersion of the funds. adding to this very worrying picture delays in the start of the 2014-2020 programming would have devastating consequences. i can therefore only share the concern expressed just a few days ago by the president of the committee of the regions, mr michel lebrun, when he warned that unless there is complete - and i would add fruitful - rapid and effective cooperation between the commission, the member states, the regions and the cities, european investment may arrive too late. i am also sorry to have to stress, as my colleagues have already done, the seriousness of the european union's 23 billion euro of unpaid bills in cohesion policy alone, with obviously very serious repercussions for the beneficiaries of the funds. having read with curiosity, but also and above all with great concern, the commissioner's statements to the general affairs council, when she said that she expected cohesion policy to contribute to the €300 billion investment plan proposed by juncker, i therefore ask: could the commissioner please clarify exactly what he said? is it intended to divert part of the 350 billion already earmarked for cohesion policy as a contribution to the juncker plan?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, welcome to the commission, even though we are in a rather difficult period for the european union. i would remind you that we are in this situation of very serious delays not because there have been delays on the part of the states or your predecessor, but because the agreement on the multiannual financial framework was not reached until very late, a situation which, as you have seen, is being repeated for the budget. the problem is therefore still the financial resources and the delays which this entails in the management of the programmes. since, as all colleagues have said, these investments are essential to the relaunch of the european economy and in many countries they are now the only public investments which, of course also through co-financing, are drawing in a certain amount of state investment, which is also being greatly reduced, i ask you to work as quickly as possible, also on quality, to try to close this game in a reasonable time. i thank you and hope that you will really try to give us some positive results.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to address a few remarks to the commissioner. you have heard today in this house, as you did at the commission meeting, the full support of all the commissioners for the need to have a line that gives you strength, both within the commission and in the relationship with individual governments. the delays mentioned, which are well known and obvious to all, are delays which must be worked on very clearly. we need precise answers, including on the re-recording of 2014 resources in the 2015 budget. we also need to clarify how the commission's 300 billion euro plan could negatively affect and condition the use of these resources. it is a theme that cannot be ignored. thirdly, i would also like to ask you to meet another very important requirement, which determines a number of the resources to be spent, namely the ability to influence the release of the national cofinancing quota, which blocks most of the investments, from the stability pact, should we go on in this direction. i would add one last point: the speed and quality of spending are two fundamental and decisive factors which must be looked at very carefully, trying to concentrate the best and maximum use of resources on infrastructure and strategic interventions, avoiding a division on several fronts.
written. delays in the launch of new operational programmes for the period 2014-2020 are a growing concern. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's financial instruments and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's financial instruments. cohesion policy has the crucial task of reducing member states' territorial development gaps in relation to the priorities and objectives of europe 2020. unfortunately, the delays that are accumulating in the programming of the european structural funds 2014-2020 risk throwing the community machinery into disarray and, above all, many regions in the main beneficiary countries, starting with poland, spain and italy; the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission must first of all speed up the planning and have more stringent control instruments. it is also urgent that concrete quality performance monitoring be put in place so that cohesion policy resources are better allocated, ensuring a better mix of funds and the optimum impact of investments, in order to respond concretely to the pressing needs of european citizens.
written. there is a clear delay, so only a limited number of operational programmes will be adopted by 2014 (about 100 out of over 300). for italy, we hope that a good number of operational programmes can be ready by the deadline of 31 december 2014. it will be very important for the commission to do its utmost to also speed up its internal procedures for approving the ops so that the unavoidable use of the revision of the multiannual financial framework under regulation 1303/2013 is started swiftly and completed in time ensuring that the entire allocation for italy for 2014 is available in full and on time. i hope that the commission, together with parliament and the member states, will be able to find the most appropriate response to overcome the long-term problems by effectively speeding up the implementation of programming. we are waiting for the commission to give us more details on how it intends to launch the task force it announced yesterday, informing parliament of the future agenda. in view of the new programming period 2014-2020, i am sure that concrete and transparent measures will be taken, not punitive decisions, such as the reduction of public co-financing, but rather initiatives aimed at creating constructive synergies between the different actors acting on the territory.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner malmström, it is more important than ever to tackle the issue of dual-use goods, on the one hand because of the new tendency of the european union to activism and of the other players to intensify economic and trade relations, on the other hand because of the growing strength and organizational capacity of terrorist groups and finally because of the speed of technological development, which is difficult to keep up with adequate standards. the commission's regulatory effort on dual-use goods must therefore be given the utmost attention and the legislative proposal must be accelerated. but we want to take this opportunity to highlight some concerns, some of which have already been raised. first of all, the need to eliminate any threat arising from the misuse of certain products must be taken into account, but at the same time it must be avoided that there is a distortion of the market which leads to a loss of competitiveness of european producers to the benefit of others whose regulation is less transparent. secondly, restrictions must be based on strict controls both ex ante and ex post and action must be taken in a timely manner to minimise the barriers which still exist in the european market by identifying the most effective measures to support control action for the most sensitive areas. finally, my question is: how can convergence on common standards be promoted globally, because that is the way to make the european union's action as effective as possible?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, dual-use goods are those products for civilian use which can also be used for military purposes, such as chemicals and remote-control instruments, avionics components and so on. for example, a harmless air navigation guidance system that helps pilots maintain a course can also be used to guide a bomb to its target. warning: we are not talking about weapons here, but about products that are created for civilian use and that are therefore much more insidious, because they are not subject to the same restrictions, but can still contribute to human rights violations in the world. europe is unfortunately a master of hypocrisy in this field too, and while the union has acceded to the european convention on human rights, it also exports surveillance equipment, radar systems and technological components which can be used against our own interests. while europe is full of good words about world peace, european countries sold chemical substances to syria in 2013 with the express consent of their national authorities - substances that were officially intended for civilian use, but that may have been used in the manufacture of chemical weapons. it is therefore obvious that better controls on member states and dual-use goods are needed to establish once and for all what is legitimate to export and to whom. we must also start to regulate the export of surveillance software and technology seriously to prevent the use of made in europe technology to record people at demonstrations or to prevent someone from asserting their rights, as was done during the arab spring. the law must adapt to changing times, which is why i ask the commission to proceed as soon as possible with the revision of the rules on dual-use items, to include more precise definitions, as evidenced by the recent council conclusions, and to extend the application to software and technological products, where necessary, and above all i ask that the application of the regulation be seriously monitored by states which often sell as dual-use items instruments which are genuine weapons.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, there is no doubt that trade in so-called 'dual-use' products should not be treated under the same rules as any other production sector. these goods require a special regulatory regime that is effective in protecting citizens, businesses and governments. this need is all the more felt in a rapidly changing world characterised by the proliferation of new threats to international security and the safety of populations. we therefore welcome the european commission's intention to carry out a legislative review of the current control system. we also hope that it will be preceded by a thorough impact assessment. a balanced system is needed which combines the considerations of international security, the protection of human rights and the need to ensure fair competition between producers at international level. i hope that the commission will do its utmost to promote the convergence of regulations at international level.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, stricter controls on exports of dual-use goods are needed. the european union must ensure the safety of its citizens first and foremost by creating a modern and secure system for the marketing of these products. no general export authorisation should be granted for dual-use technologies produced by the european union, which could be used in a negative way or even used for purposes that violate human rights. at present, exports of dual-use items are not subject to any european authorization system and it is up to each individual state to decide on export controls. at least an ex ante notification system should be established for the most sensitive dual-use technologies. the commission and the member states must make an effort to be transparent and to fill the dramatic legislative gap that exists and to work towards the harmonization of legislation.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, impact assessments are conducted to predict the likely impact of eu legislation on citizens and the economy as a whole. yet they are often controversial and opaque. i believe that a major challenge for the new european commission is to separate its impact assessment mechanisms from the political imperatives that too often guide the development of its proposals and to base them instead on mere scientific evidence. there are countless examples of european policy makers arguing over scientific evidence, even on highly technical issues. i believe, therefore, that a new system of evidence gathering within the commission itself needs to be developed, one which completely disconnects the gathering of evidence from the political imperative. the creation of a special department within the commission with the role of evaluating policy proposals on the basis of pure scientific evidence would be important to ensure that the commission's evaluations are efficient, independent and transparent.
first vice-president of the commission. - i know . madam president, first of all i would like to express my gratitude to the interpreters because the speakers speak so fast that i am really impressed by their work. second, let me take away any misunderstanding. the impact assessment on smes was, is and will remain part of the commission's impact assessment. the only thing i want to do is to improve that. i do not think it is good enough as it is. to explain the way it works: the services of the commission who prepare legislation are themselves responsible for impact assessment. this impact assessment is then reviewed by the impact assessment board, and until now approximately 40% of what was presented to the board was sent back because it was not good enough and had to be reviewed. so i am fully aware of the fact that the commission services should do a better job at incorporating impact assessment when they draft legislation. what we're doing now is revising the guidelines so that we do a better job. your contribution tonight is extremely valuable to me to make sure that i can put that into the debate to create better guidelines. the assumption that impact assessment would not be done for smes is not corroborated by the facts. approximately 93% of the proposals have a full or partial impact assessment for smes. i also believe that we could improve the impact assessment board by making sure that we expand the membership of that board with people who have experience in this field, who are clearly independent and who are willing to be very clear and brutal if they believe that the commission is not doing a good job. my intention is to look very carefully at the composition of the impact assessment board. some of you have suggested that this impact assessment board should be removed from the commission. i am not of that opinion. i believe it should remain within the commission, because what we do is assess drafts we make in the commission before these drafts go to parliament and the council. so if you want impact assessment across the board for eu legislation, perhaps we could then have a talk with parliament on how parliament organises this and learn from each other and then also look at what the council could still be doing. impact assessment means looking at the impact on society in a broad sense. it is not just about whether it is legally well-drafted legislation. it also looks at the economic impact of this legislation. it looks at the social impact of this legislation. it looks at the environmental impact of this legislation. this is all of extreme importance for better regulation. mr telička suggested that perhaps we should also have financial targets. well, let me say and this is for better regulation, not for impact assessment, and i think it was also mr bütikofer who referred to that that better regulation does not mean deregulation or less regulation. better regulation can mean replacing 28 national regulations with one clear eu regulation, but it can also mean that the eu refrains from making regulations where perhaps the differences between the member states are so big that if you make an eu regulation, it becomes so complicated that it is too much of a burden, especially on small and medium-sized enterprises. i want to take a completely rational approach to the issue. for me this is not an ideological issue, a party political issue; for me this is a rational issue. how do we achieve the goals of sustainable growth in europe without an undue burden on citizens and enterprises? that is the main goal of my operation in the next five years. i also believe that we need to review existing legislation. we have not been very good at that as a european union in the last ten years. i think mr telička rightly pointed out that problem, and i really undertake to have a dialogue with this parliament on how we can also remove outdated legislation or legislation that no longer achieves the goals it was intended for. i agree with those of you who say ʽthink small firstʼ. indeed, not just because there are so many smes in the eu, but also because helping smes is actually easier across the board than helping the big guys, because if you help smes remove just part of the burden they have, you could create tremendous results in a very short period of time. but smes have to be aware of this, and so far my impression is that whatever we have done at european level, smes today do not have the feeling that we are taking the burden off them. they have the feeling, as some of you have rightly pointed out, that the only thing europe does is add more burden to them, and we should be very aware of that feeling in european society, and we should be able to do something concrete about this jointly as the commission/european parliament. to sum up, madam president: yes, smes will remain as part of impact assessment. yes, we need to do better in impact assessment than we have done in the last couple of years. yes, this is part of the better regulation exercise which will be complicated but necessary for growth in the european union; and yes, the commission is strongly committed to making sure that all stakeholders, and especially this parliament, have a full say in how we develop this, and i hope that this can be reflected in the new guidelines the commissions will be developing shortly.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, as a result of the stress tests carried out by the ecb on 113 european banks, 25 failed to pass the tests and fell short of the minimum capital requirements. among these, nine are italian, which unfortunately are among the worst in europe. this may cause problems for the recovery of our economy. in particular, the final outcome of the assessment highlighted the need for capital strengthening measures for the majority of italian banks of over eur 10 billion. the question arises, how will the banking system ensure the necessary flow of capital into the productive system, given that 10 billion of capital can create 125 billion new jobs? the question arises whether, and if so why, the stress test parameters were more stringent than those for other countries. i am afraid of having to look for the answer at the finance table, where italy may not have the same weight as other countries. i hope that action will be taken to avoid penalising the banking systems and, above all, to prevent adverse effects on the real economies.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to draw your attention to the fact that in greece the state-owned electricity transmission system operator, admie, is being privatised. a year ago both the chinese state grid corporation and the italian operator terna expressed interest in buying the greek counterpart. however, the state grid corporation of china itself, through the control of state grid international development limited, is now an indirect partner of terna in italy. so we find ourselves in a paradoxical situation, where terna and state grid corporation are allies in italy and simultaneously competitors in greece for the purchase of admie. this is the consequence of the need for the member states to make money by selling off their national and therefore european strategic assets in order to respond to austerity policies, as has already happened in italy and is happening throughout southern europe. i would ask everyone to keep an eye on how the european commission will try to put a lid on this paradox and many others which i cannot discuss here because of time constraints.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the cap and trade system was introduced in the doha round as a tool which was supposed to make it possible to reduce emissions of climate-changing gases, as decided by the kyoto protocol, in the most efficient and economical way. it was thought that leaving the cost of emissions to the market could encourage more virtuous behaviour and penalize companies that did not want to invest in better technologies. since the end of the first trading period, when a tonne of co2 cost a few cents, the instrument has shown its profound limitations. the whole climate and energy package voted in early 2009 is based on co2 cost projections that are far from reality. to combat the climate change that is taking place, we need serious instruments that do not allow the parasitism of brokers and financial markets, the only ones for which the ets is working very well. it is therefore time to start a serious discussion and discussion with all parties on how to overcome the cap and trade system so that we can make full and effective use of the resources available.
in writing. the council has asked that this matter be treated as an urgent matter: i can also agree that this is an important issue, but this request is unacceptable, both in substance and form. the european parliament and the council were due to discuss the adoption of some amending budgets for 2014 and the eu budget for 2015 about a month ago: the council has refused to engage in a serious dialogue with us all this time and now it wants to impose an urgency on us on a matter which concerns them essentially. it is perhaps time to put aside this sterile opposition between parliament and the council, between our priorities and responsibilities and theirs. what i do not understand is how it is not realised that all these discussions have a real impact on the lives of all european citizens and should therefore be dealt with with the utmost care and dedication. the renzi government would like to hail this change to the own resources system as a victory of the italian eu presidency: we are truly in a paradox, because unfortunately this incident also shows us that our country counts very little in europe and that it is systematically being dictated by others.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the fight against poverty and exclusion is a key aspect of the europe 2020 strategy, as is the creation of jobs, but if there are no jobs, citizens must still be guaranteed a decent life. that is why we need to decouple work and income, and that is precisely what the citizenship income is for. in italy, we of the five star movement have proposed a citizenship income which we want to export to europe, so that a fixed minimum monthly income is a right of every european citizen. it is not a welfare measure but a form of legal civilization which pays for itself and which guarantees the weakest at a time when work can no longer do so. many european countries have already implemented such a measure, but in italy our proposal has been ridiculed. but instead of stopping there, we decided to think big and to propose it here in the european parliament, where it received the support of the european commissioner for labour, marianne thyssen, during her hearing. the european union's solidarity must therefore be based on a social pillar and must have social objectives as high as economic ones. to achieve the poverty reduction objective of the eu 2020 strategy, a european citizenship income is needed.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, europe has been talking about strategy for decades. it did so in the past when it launched the lisbon strategy with emphasis, and it did so again when it launched strategy 2020 with equal emphasis, a miracle cure that by the end of the decade was to lead everyone out of the crisis. today, not even halfway through, the failure of europe 2020 is plain to see. this is according to eurostat, which certifies 25 million unemployed citizens and 120 million citizens at risk of poverty. that's what the unemployed and the businessmen in crisis say. lisbon and europe 2020 are just empty and useless words. if europe is to help its citizens, it must be prepared to make courageous choices. it must put european citizens at the centre of its policies, not banks, finance and multinationals. it must relax the absurd parameters of the wrong treaties. to say that the euro has failed and brought our economy to its knees. if europe is not capable of proposing solutions, but only of creating problems, then it is better to declare the european project a failure and start from scratch with a new europe.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it is no use hiding the fact that the social and employment dimension of the europe 2020 strategy, which was supposed to lead europe towards strong and inclusive growth, must necessarily be revised, if not rethinked. its objectives have remained sadly on paper because of the looming economic crisis. the recipes put into practice by the eu in recent years and by the member states have in some cases even made the situation worse. it is therefore urgent to reinvest, because this is what is at stake: the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use (emah) is a step in the right direction. it is a shame that the latest financial framework has been cut for the first time in history, given the circumstances. the situation of the 2015 budget debate, which is still stalled, is also depressing. new instruments will therefore have to be put in place to deal with the increasingly evident socioeconomic polarization which our economy is suffering from, both within individual member states and at european level. the aim of the triple a social europe is to create automatic stabilisation mechanisms capable of addressing these macroeconomic and social imbalances. the survival of the single currency is at stake, and fortunately the italian presidency has put this on the agenda.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in order to achieve the poverty reduction objective of the 2020 strategy, we need a european citizens' income. it can no longer be said that these measures are the exclusive responsibility of the national states. europe must take responsibility for its citizens and not just think about budgetary rules. citizens' incomes would clearly have added value if they were realised on a european scale, because they would be a good stabilizer for asymmetric shocks which, since we have the euro, can no longer be absorbed by changing the exchange rate. i would like to see a europe where social objectives are as important as budgetary objectives. my colleagues and i will work hard to achieve a europe with a citizens' income. a europe which actively pursues social objectives. a europe that imposes measures against social exclusion and poverty rather than imposing cuts and sacrifices. i would urge the commission to take an active interest in this subject, because that would be a europe to be proud of.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that the central theme of our discussion is growth and we are therefore very attentive to the return on investment promised by mr juncker. but while we await the outcome of the investment plan, we cannot fail to stress today how essential it is in the short term to identify instruments which can really be able to support the incomes of the most fragile and weakest people. it is well known that the fall in consumption, for example in the purchase of medicines, but also the fall in food consumption, gives us an absolutely serious situation. we have not ... (the president interrupts the speaker)
written. the convention, like the speech of the four presidents, did not take the social union into account. it is only thanks to parliament's intervention that this subject has been brought back on the european agenda. i call on the commission and the council, represented here by the presidency, to accelerate all measures and instruments to create employment, in particular to respond to the scourge of youth unemployment, and also to ensure that europe completes its integration at the level of the treaties, becoming a true social union.
in writing. to achieve the objectives and priorities of the europe 2020 strategy, an urgent review of the entire economic governance designed in response to the crisis is needed. with over 24 million unemployed and one in four citizens at risk of poverty, you cannot boost growth by focusing on budgetary targets. the dramatic results of austerity policies, combined with the ineffectiveness of monetary policy, indicate that the only possible way out of the crisis and to revive growth is to allow states to implement expansionary fiscal policies, which stimulate domestic demand, without those absurd and unfounded constraints, which especially in times of recession have perverse and counterproductive effects. rather, the eu can make a difference if it is able to give concrete support to the member states, for example by ensuring the efficient spending of the structural funds, as well as by taking measures to support demand and citizens directly. one of the most effective measures in this regard would undoubtedly be the european citizenship income, to prevent more and more citizens from being reduced to poverty by the economic crisis and excluded from society.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, vice-presidents, honourable members of the european parliament, people working in various capacities in this hemicycle, dear friends, i thank you for inviting me to speak before this institution which is fundamental to the life of the european union and for the opportunity you have given me to address, through you, the more than 500 million citizens whom you represent in the 28 member states. i would like to express my particular gratitude to you, mr president, for the warm welcome you have given me on behalf of all the members of this house. my visit comes more than a quarter of a century after that of pope john paul ii. a lot has changed since those days in europe and around the world. the opposing blocs that once divided the continent into two no longer exist, and the wish is slowly being fulfilled that 'europe, by giving itself sovereignly free institutions, may one day expand to the dimensions given to it by geography and even more so by history'. alongside a wider european union, there is also a more complex and highly mobile world. a world that is increasingly interconnected and global and therefore less and less eurocentric. but alongside a larger, more influential union, there seems to be an image of a somewhat aged and compressed europe, which tends to feel less of a protagonist in a context that often looks at it with detachment, mistrust and sometimes suspicion. in addressing you today, i wish to send a message of hope and encouragement to all european citizens, taking as my starting point my vocation as a pastor. a message of hope based on the belief that difficulties can become powerful agents of unity, to overcome all the fears that europe - together with the whole world - is going through. hope in the lord who turns evil into good and death into life. encouragement to return to the firm conviction of the founding fathers of the european union, who wanted a future based on the ability to work together to overcome divisions and to promote peace and communion among all the peoples of the continent. at the heart of this ambitious political project was trust in man, not so much as a citizen, nor as an economic subject, but in man as a person endowed with a transcendent dignity. i would like to stress first of all the close link between these two words: "dignity" and "transcendent". dignity is the keyword that has characterized the recovery of the second post-war period. our recent history is marked by the unquestionable centrality of the promotion of human dignity in the face of the many forms of violence and discrimination which have not been lacking in europe over the centuries. the perception of the importance of human rights is the result of a long journey, including many sufferings and sacrifices, which has helped to form the awareness of the preciousness, uniqueness and unrepeatability of each individual human person. this cultural awareness is based not only on historical events but also on european thought, which is characterised by a rich history of encounter, with many sources from greece and rome, celtic, germanic and slavic substrates, and christianity, which has profoundly shaped them, giving rise to the concept of "person". today, the promotion of human rights is central to the european union's commitment to promoting the dignity of the person, both within the union and in its relations with other countries. this is an important and admirable endeavour, because there are still too many situations in which human beings are treated as objects, whose design, configuration and usefulness can be programmed, and which can then be discarded when they are no longer needed, because they have become weak, sick or old. indeed, what dignity exists when there is no possibility of freely expressing one's thoughts or of professing one's religious faith without coercion? what dignity is possible without a clear legal framework, which limits the domination of force and makes the law prevail over the tyranny of power? what dignity can a man or a woman have when he or she is the object of any kind of discrimination? what dignity can a person find who has no food or the bare essentials of life and, worse still, who has no job that anoints him with dignity? promoting the dignity of the human person means recognizing that he has inalienable rights which cannot be arbitrarily deprived of by anyone, much less for the benefit of economic interests. but we must be careful not to fall into certain misunderstandings which can arise from a misunderstanding of the concept of human rights and their paradoxical abuse. in fact, there is a tendency today towards an ever-widening demand for individual rights - i am tempted to say individualist - which conceals a conception of the human person detached from any social and anthropological context, almost like a "monad" (μονάς), increasingly insensitive to the other "monads" around him. the concept of right no longer seems to be associated with the equally essential and complementary concept of duty, so that one ends up affirming the rights of the individual without taking into account that every human being is linked to a social context, in which his rights and duties are connected to those of others and to the common good of society itself. i therefore believe that it is more vital than ever to develop a culture of human rights which can wisely link the individual, or rather the personal, dimension to that of the common good, to that 'we-all' made up of individuals, families and intermediate groups who come together in social communities. in fact, if the rights of each individual are not harmoniously ordered to the greater good, they end up being conceived without limitations and thus become a source of conflict and violence. to speak of man's transcendent dignity, then, is to appeal to his nature, to his innate sense of right and wrong, to that "compass" written in our hearts and which god has imprinted on the created universe; it means above all looking at man not as an absolute, but as a relational being. one of the diseases i see most prevalent in europe today is loneliness, the disease of those who are unconnected. it is particularly evident in the elderly, who are often left to their own devices, and in young people who lack a point of reference and opportunities for the future. you see it in the many poor people who live in our cities. it is seen in the lost eyes of migrants who came here in search of a better future. this loneliness was further exacerbated by the economic crisis, the effects of which are still felt today, with dramatic social consequences. it is also clear that, in recent years, alongside the process of enlargement of the european union, citizens have become increasingly distrustful of institutions which they regarded as distant and which were committed to establishing rules which they perceived as being distant from the sensibilities of individual peoples, if not even harmful. the general impression is that europe is tired and aging, that it is old and no longer fertile and vibrant. the great ideals which inspired europe seem to have lost their attraction to the bureaucratic technicalities of its institutions. this is accompanied by a somewhat selfish lifestyle, characterized by an opulence that is now unsustainable and often indifferent to the world around them, especially the poorest. it is regrettable that technical and economic questions have prevailed in the political debate, to the detriment of a genuine anthropological approach. the human being is in danger of being reduced to a mere cog in a mechanism which treats him as if he were a consumer good to be used, so that - we often notice this unfortunately - when life is not functional to this mechanism, he is discarded without too much remorse, as in the case of the sick, the terminally ill, the elderly who are abandoned and uncared for, or the children killed before they are born. it is the great misunderstanding that occurs when the absolute of technology prevails, which ends up creating a confusion between ends and means. the inevitable result of the 'throw-away culture' and 'exaggerated consumerism'. on the contrary, affirming the dignity of the person means recognizing the preciousness of human life, which is given to us freely and therefore cannot be traded or bartered. you, in your vocation as parliamentarians, are also called to a great mission, however futile it may seem: to take care of the fragility of peoples and individuals. caring for fragility means strength and tenderness, it means struggle and fecundity in the midst of a functionalist and private model that leads inexorably to the "culture of waste". to care for the fragility of individuals and peoples is to preserve memory and hope; it means taking charge of the present in its most marginal and distressing situation and being able to anoint it with dignity. how can we restore hope for the future, so that the younger generations can have the confidence to pursue the great ideal of a europe united in peace, creative and enterprising, respectful of its rights and aware of its duties? to answer that question, let me use an image. one of the most famous frescoes by raphael in the vatican depicts the so-called school of athens. at its center are plato and aristotle. the first one with the finger pointing upwards, towards the world of ideas, we could say towards the sky; the second one reaches forward, towards the observer, towards the earth, the concrete reality. it seems to me that this is a picture which describes europe and its history well, made up of the continuous encounter between heaven and earth, where the sky indicates the openness to the transcendent, to god, which has always characterized european man, and the earth represents his practical and concrete capacity to face situations and problems. the future of europe depends on rediscovering the vital and inseparable link between these two elements. a europe which is no longer able to open itself to the transcendent dimension of life is a europe which is slowly in danger of losing its own soul and also the 'humanistic spirit' which it loves and defends. it is precisely because of the need to be open to the transcendent that i want to affirm the centrality of the human person, who is otherwise at the mercy of the fashions and powers of the moment. in this sense, i consider to be fundamental not only the legacy that christianity has left in the past to the socio-cultural formation of the continent, but above all the contribution it intends to make today and in the future to its growth. this contribution does not constitute a threat to the secularism of the states and to the independence of the institutions of the union, but an enrichment. the ideals which have shaped it from the beginning, such as peace, subsidiarity and mutual solidarity, a humanism based on respect for the dignity of the person, show this. i therefore wish to renew the readiness of the holy see and the catholic church, through the commission of the european bishops' conferences, to engage in a fruitful, open and transparent dialogue with the institutions of the european union. i am also convinced that a europe which is able to treasure its religious roots, and to grasp their richness and potential, can also be more easily immune to the many extremes that are spreading in the world today, also because of the great vacuum of ideals that we are witnessing in the so-called west, because it is precisely the forgetfulness of god, and not his glorification, that generates violence. we cannot fail to mention the many injustices and persecutions which daily afflict religious minorities, and christians in particular, in various parts of the world. community and people who are the victims of barbaric violence: driven from their homes and homelands; sold as slaves; killed, beheaded, crucified and burned alive, under the shameful silence and complicity of so many. the motto of the european union is "unity in diversity", but unity does not mean uniformity of politics, economics, culture, or thought. in reality, any genuine unity lives on the richness of the diversity which composes it: like a family, which is the more united the more each of its members can be fully themselves without fear. in this sense, i believe that europe is a family of peoples, who will be able to feel close to the union's institutions if they can wisely combine the ideal of unity to which they aspire with the diversity of each one, while valuing their individual traditions. by becoming aware of its history and its roots; and so we're free of all the manipulation and all the phobias. putting the human person at the centre means first of all allowing him to express his own face and creativity freely, both as an individual and as a people. on the other hand, the particular characteristics of each individual constitute a real wealth to the extent that they are put at the service of all. we must always remember the architecture of the european union, which is based on the principles of solidarity and subsidiarity, so that mutual aid prevails and we can move forward with mutual confidence. in this dynamic of unity and particularity, you, ladies and gentlemen, must also take on the task of keeping the democracy of the peoples of europe alive. it is not a secret that a homologous conception of the global affects the vitality of the democratic system by weakening the rich, fruitful and constructive contrast of organizations and political parties with each other. we are therefore in danger of living in the realm of ideas, words, images and sophistry and of confusing the reality of democracy with a new political nominalism. keeping democracy alive in europe requires avoiding many 'globalising ways' of diluting reality: the european parliament has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of europe, and i think that the european parliament has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of europe. the challenge of this historical moment is to keep the reality of democracies alive, to prevent their real strength - the political expression of the people - from being undermined by the pressure of non-universal multinational interests, which weaken them and transform them into uniform systems of financial power in the service of unknown empires. this is a challenge that history poses to you today. giving hope to europe does not only mean recognising the centrality of the human person, but also means encouraging his talents. it is therefore a question of investing in the young people and in the areas where their talents are developed and bear fruit. the first area is certainly that of education, starting with the family, the fundamental cell and precious element of every society. the united, fertile and indissoluble family carries with it the basic elements for giving hope to the future. without such solidity, we end up building on sand, with serious social consequences. on the other hand, stressing the importance of the family not only helps to give prospects and hope to the younger generations, but also to the many elderly, who are often forced to live in conditions of loneliness and neglect because there is no longer the warmth of a home capable of accompanying and supporting them. next to the family are the educational institutions: schools and universities. education cannot be limited to providing a set of technical knowledge, but must promote the more complex process of growth of the human person as a whole. the young people of today demand to be able to have a proper and complete education so that they can look to the future with hope, rather than with disillusionment. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. it is enough to think, for example, of alternative sources of energy, the development of which would be of great benefit to the protection of the environment. europe has always been at the forefront of a laudable commitment to ecology. our earth needs constant care and attention, and each one has a personal responsibility to care for the precious gift that god has placed in the hands of humans. this means that on the one hand we have nature at our disposal, we can enjoy it and make good use of it; on the other hand, we can use it to our advantage. but on the other hand, it means we don't own it. keepers, but not masters. we must therefore love and respect it, whereas we are often driven by the pride of dominating, possessing, manipulating, exploiting; we don't "preserve" it, we don't respect it, we don't treat it as a free gift to be cherished. respect for the environment, however, means not only avoiding its deterioration but also using it for good. i am thinking in particular of the agricultural sector, which is called upon to support and nourish man. we cannot tolerate millions of people in the world starving to death while tons of food are thrown away from our tables every day. moreover, respect for nature reminds us that man himself is a fundamental part of it. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the second area in which the talents of the human person flourish is work. it is time to promote employment policies, but above all it is necessary to restore dignity to work, also by ensuring adequate conditions for its performance. this implies, on the one hand, finding new ways of combining the flexibility of the market with the need for stability and certainty of job prospects, which are essential for the human development of workers; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the social partners are able to work together in a coordinated manner. we must also tackle the issue of migration together. we cannot allow the mediterranean sea to become a graveyard! on the boats that arrive daily on the european shores there are men and women who need to be welcomed and helped. the lack of mutual support within the european union risks encouraging particularist solutions to the problem, which do not take into account the human dignity of immigrants, fostering slave labour and continuing social tensions. europe will be able to tackle the problems of immigration if it can clearly articulate its cultural identity and put in place appropriate legislation that can both protect the rights of european citizens and ensure the welcome of migrants. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. we must act on causes and not just effects. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the awareness of one's own identity is also necessary for a constructive dialogue with the states which have asked to join the union in the future. i am thinking in particular of those in the balkans for whom membership of the european union will be a means of achieving the ideal of peace in a region which has suffered greatly from past conflicts. finally, the awareness of one's own identity is indispensable in relations with other neighbouring countries, particularly those bordering the mediterranean, many of which suffer from internal conflicts and from the pressure of religious fundamentalism and international terrorism. it is up to you, the legislators, to safeguard and develop the european identity so that citizens can regain their confidence in the union's institutions and in the project of peace and friendship which is its foundation. knowing that "the more the power of men increases, the more their personal and collective responsibility expands and widens". i therefore urge you to work for europe to rediscover its good soul. an anonymous second-century author wrote that "christians represent to the world what the soul is to the body". the soul's job is to support the body, to be its consciousness and historical memory. and a two-thousand-year history links europe and christianity. a history not without conflict and error, even sin, but always animated by the desire to build for good. we see it in the beauty of our cities, and even more so in the many works of charity and of common human edification that sustain the continent. this story, for the most part, is yet to be written. it is our present and our future. it is our identity. and europe is in dire need of rediscovering its face in order to grow in peace and harmony, in the spirit of its founding fathers, because it is not yet free from conflict. the time has come, dear members, for us to build together a europe which does not revolve around the economy but around the sanctity of the human person, of inalienable values. the european union is a europe which embraces its past with courage and looks to its future with confidence, in order to live its present fully and with hope. it is time to abandon the idea of a europe that is afraid and self-absorbed and to give rise to and promote a europe that is the protagonist, the bearer of science, art, music, human values and also faith. europe looking to the sky and pursuing ideals; europe that looks to, defends and protects man; the european union is a europe of peace, a europe of peace, a europe of peace, a europe of peace, a europe of peace, a europe of peace, a europe of peace, a europe of peace, a europe of peace, a europe of peace, a europe of peace, a europe of peace, a europe of peace, a europe of peace, a europe of peace, a europe of peace, a europe of peace, a europe of peace, a europe of peace, a europe of peace, a europe of peace, a europe of peace, a europe of peace, a europe of peace, a europe of peace, a europe of peace, a europe of peace, a europe of peace, a europe of peace, a europe of peace, a europe of peace, a europe of peace, a europe of peace, a europe of peace, a europe of peace, a europe of peace, a europe of peace, a europe of peace, a europe of peace, a europe of peace, a europe of peace, a europe of peace, a europe of peace, a europe of peace, a europe of peace, a europe of peace, a europe of peace, a europe of peace, a europe of peace, a europe of peace, a europe of peace, a europe of peace, a europe of peace, a europe of peace, a europe of peace, a europe of peace, a europe of peace, europe of peace, europe of peace, europe of peace, europe of peace, europe of peace, europe of peace, europe of peace, europe of peace, europe of peace, europe of peace, europe of peace, europe of peace, europe of peace, europe of peace, europe of peace, europe of peace, europe of peace, europe thank you, sir.
the next item is the vote on the motion for a resolution (doc.
the request for an extension of the vote is rejected.
that concludes the voting.
in writing. - according to the proposal, the railway protocol aims to facilitate the financing of high-value railway rolling stock by creating a strong international guarantee for creditors. the commission notes that this should not only encourage investment in the railway sector but also the creation of a genuine rental market for mobile railway equipment in europe. since there are still serious doubts as to the actual consequences of the manoeuvre and the real interests at stake, i have chosen to abstain.
in writing. i voted in favour of this legislative resolution because i believe that it is essential to develop rail freight transport in europe.
in writing. - i abstained. the question remains as to the actual effects of the measure and the genuine interests at stake.
in writing. - i voted today in favour of the recommendation on international guarantees for movable property, with reference to the important aspects of railway rolling stock. given that logistics is an essential driver of the progress of communities, the objective of the railway protocol is to facilitate the financing of high-value railway rolling stock by creating a particularly strong international guarantee for creditors. this instrument is intended, hopefully, to promote capital investment in the railway sector and at the same time to promote the establishment of a genuine leasing market for movable equipment in europe. for these reasons, my vote is firmly in favour of the recommendation.
in writing. i am pleased to have contributed to the adoption of this draft decision by voting in favour of it. the agreement is now dated, in the sense that the process of this protocol started many years ago, when the global conditions were different, and those in italy were unrecognizable to today's eyes, but the meaning is all the more valid today: the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information it receives. i think it is important that the eu supports this principle and i look forward to the application of this convention.
in writing. i voted in favour of the draft agreement on the approval, on behalf of the eu, of the protocol on railway equipment annexed to the convention on international guarantees in respect of capital goods, adopted in luxembourg on 23 february 2007. i am in favour of this proposal not only because it is consistent with european legal standards but also because i believe it is necessary to facilitate the financing of high-value railway rolling stock by creating a particularly strong international guarantee for creditors, thus allowing the rights of creditors to be strengthened in the event of default by the debtor by creating an international system allowing creditors to enter guarantees on various categories of movable property and to benefit from certain rules on the pre-emption and enforceability of international guarantees entered by allowing guarantees to be consulted and entered 24 hours a day via the internet. moreover, this proposal is closely linked to the fourth railway package, which, among other objectives, aims to encourage greater innovation and investment in european railways, with the aim of achieving greener and more sustainable modes of transport.
in writing. - the european parliament is called upon to give its assent to the conclusion of the protocol on certain aspects of railway rolling stock. the proposal is closely linked to the fourth railway package, which, among other objectives, aims to foster greater innovation and investment in european rail transport. the proposal states that the objective of the railway protocol is to facilitate the financing of high value railway rolling stock by creating a particularly strong international guarantee for creditors. the commission notes that such an instrument should not only promote capital investment in the railway sector but also facilitate the creation of a genuine leasing market for movable equipment in europe.
in writing. - the protocol on certain aspects of railway rolling stock annexed to the convention on international guarantees in respect of movable property in respect of railway rolling stock has several objectives: facilitate the financing of high-value railway rolling stock by creating a particularly strong international guarantee for creditors, promote capital investment in the railway sector and encourage the creation of a leasing market for rolling stock in europe. the proposal is also closely linked to the fourth railway package, because it encourages more investment and more innovation in european railways, and that is why i have decided to vote in favour of the protocol.
in writing. i shall abstain as the proposal aims to facilitate the financing of high-value rail by creating a strong international guarantee for creditors but, given the premises, there is still doubt about the actual impact and the real interests at stake.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of the report by mr heidi hautala because i think it is necessary to support this report which supports the adoption of the protocol on certain aspects of railway rolling stock; i am sure that this protocol will make financing activities for high-value railway rolling stock less complex.
in writing. - according to the proposal for the convention on international guarantees for infrastructure assets, the objective of the railway protocol is to facilitate and promote capital investment in the railway sector and at the same time to promote the establishment of a genuine leasing market for infrastructure assets in europe. the proposal encourages more investment and innovation in european railways, which is why i have decided to vote in favour of the protocol.
in writing. - i thought it necessary to offer my support to the report by mrs hautala, which supports the adoption of the protocol on certain aspects of railway rolling stock, because i believe that it makes the financing of high-value railway rolling stock less complex by creating an international guarantee for creditors. such an instrument not only facilitates financial investment but also the development of a leasing market for capital goods in europe.
in writing. i welcome the favourable vote by parliament on the draft council decision on the approval, on behalf of the european union, of the protocol on certain aspects of railway rolling stock annexed to the convention on international carriage by rail of goods by road (the 'railway protocol'), as i believe that the objectives pursued by it deserve our support. the proposal states that the objective of the railway protocol is to facilitate the financing of high value railway rolling stock by creating a particularly strong international guarantee for creditors (credit sellers or financial institutions that have financed such sales). in particular, this instrument should not only promote capital investment in the railway sector but also help to create a genuine leasing market for movable equipment in europe. the proposal is also closely linked to the fourth railway package, which, among other objectives, aims to encourage more innovation and investment in european railways. finally, the railway protocol is also in line with the objective, set out in the 2011 white paper on transport, to move towards greener and more sustainable modes of transport, such as rail.
in writing. - whereas the commission published on 12 june 2013 a proposal for a council decision on the approval, on behalf of the european union, of the protocol on certain aspects of railway rolling stock; whereas the council adopted on 20 november 2013 a decision on the approval, on behalf of the european union, of the said protocol and on 14 april 2014 requested the approval of the european parliament; whereas the railway protocol is compatible with union law; whereas the council accepted the commission's proposal by deciding not to opt for the application of the provisions concerning matters for which eu legislation may be considered appropriate; for these reasons, i am voting in favour;
in writing. i voted in favour of the protocol on certain aspects of railway rolling stock because i believe that its adoption will achieve the objective of making financing of railway rolling stock of significant value more accessible through the creation of an international guarantee for creditors. this should increase investment in the railway sector and at the same time create a genuine market for the leasing of movable capital equipment. if we look at the fourth railway package, which is being discussed at the moment, we see that there is a close link with this proposal, where we need more investment and more innovation, with greener and more sustainable modes of transport, in the european railway system. the adoption of the protocol, where member states delegate to the eu competence in the matters specified therein, will establish a register of international guarantees on movable capital goods and will complement the european vehicle numbering system under the railway interoperability directive.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this measure which guarantees greater protection and transparency for consumers.
in writing. i voted in favour of this legislative resolution because i believe that the economy and people must live in a global and european legal environment where judicial decisions taken in a country other than the country of residence have a positive value.
in writing. - i voted yes. the measure protects the consumer in insurance matters and provides more certainty in disputes.
in writing. - today i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the hague convention of 30 june 2005 on choice of court agreements. the hague convention of 30 june 2005 concerns a sensitive issue of private international law, which was developed by the hague conference. the convention covers exclusive choice agreements in civil and commercial matters whereby the parties agree that any dispute arising between them on a particular matter will be decided by the courts of the specified state. i agree that the eu should be a party to this convention, given the greater legal certainty which is a basic principle of international law and of all domestic law. this is particularly important because it is possible to encourage exchanges between the participating states, which must also be encouraged in the european context. i also agree with the draft council decision to exclude insurance contracts with consumers from the scope of the convention, in order to prevent consumers from unknowingly accepting a choice of court clause, which, in addition to being not very transparent in itself, could lead to further problems in the field of consumer law.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the convention because the choice of court agreements will have the effect of ensuring greater legal certainty and thus facilitating trade between the participating states.
in writing. legal certainty is a principle that should never be called into question. i think that any occasion on which this is necessary is a moment of failure for the legal system as a whole. i voted for the hague convention to make this principle more concrete than ever, so that there is less doubt and more trust in commercial transactions, both between the parties and in the system that will guarantee the execution of contracts.
in writing. i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the approval, on behalf of the european union, of the hague convention of 30 june 2005 on choice of court agreements. i am in favour of exclusive choice of court agreements in civil and commercial matters, allowing both parties to agree that any dispute between them on a particular matter will be decided by the courts of the specified state. i believe that the european union should participate in this convention, which it signed in 2009, taking into account that, at present, the only state that has ratified the convention is mexico, but the united states of america is also now deliberating on ratification and we should encourage them to proceed to this end. i also support the draft council decision which excludes insurance contracts with consumers from the scope of the convention, in order to prevent consumers from unknowingly accepting a choice of court clause.
in writing. - the convention concerns a matter of private international law, namely exclusive choice of court agreements concluded in civil and commercial matters. these are agreements whereby two parties agree that any dispute between them on a particular matter will be decided by the courts of the specified state. the convention contains provisions which determine the scope of the convention, define the choice of court agreements, deal with matters of jurisdiction, recognition and enforcement and govern various procedural matters. it should be noted that the council decision exempts insurance contracts with consumers from the scope of the convention, in order to prevent consumers from unknowingly accepting a choice of court clause. widespread acceptance of this convention would ensure greater legal certainty for international exclusive choice of court agreements and thus facilitate trade between the participating states. i think it is appropriate to support this convention.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the accession of the european union to the hague convention of 30 june 2005 on choice of court agreements. many countries have already ratified the convention, and the united states is now considering ratification. i think it is appropriate that the european union should also approve this convention, as general accession would ensure greater legal certainty for choice of court agreements and would encourage trade between the participating states.
in writing. i vote in favour of the report on agreements whereby two parties agree that any dispute between them on a particular matter will be decided by the courts of the specified state. the measure is in the interests of the consumer and provides more certainty in disputes.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of the convention proposed by mr pavel svoboda because i believe that the european union needs to ratify the convention, which was signed in 2009. the hague convention of 30 june 2005 on choice of court agreements provides that any dispute between the parties shall be decided by the courts of the specified state. this convention provides greater legal certainty for choice of court agreements and would therefore improve trade between the participating states.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the accession of the european union to the hague convention of 30 june 2005 on choice of court agreements. this measure ensures greater protection and transparency for consumers on insurance matters and also provides greater legal certainty, thereby facilitating trade between the participating states.
in writing. - the hague convention on choice of court agreements of 30 june 2005 provides, in the context of private international law, that any dispute between the parties shall be decided by the courts of the state specified. the objective of the convention reflects, at an international level, that contained in article 25 of the brussels i regulation, which is relevant to a purely european sphere. i agree with the rapporteur svoboda on the need for the european union to ratify this convention, which was signed in 2009. it would provide greater legal certainty for international exclusive choice of court agreements and thus improve trade between participating states.
in writing. - whereas the hague convention of 30 june 2005 on choice of court agreements is a convention on a matter of private international law and was drawn up by the hague conference on private international law, whereas the convention concerns exclusive choice of court agreements concluded in civil and commercial matters, whereas at present the only state to have adopted that convention is mexico and the united states is in the process of adopting it, whereas a general accession to that convention would provide greater legal certainty for exclusive choice of court agreements and would therefore facilitate trade between the participating states, for these reasons i vote in favour.
in writing. the hague convention of 30 june 2005 referred to in the recommendation, which i voted in favour of, concerns a matter of private international law. exclusive choice of court agreements are only those concluded in civil and commercial matters. in particular, these are agreements whereby two parties agree that any dispute between them on a particular matter will be decided by the courts of the specified state. the convention is very clear and the provisions establishing the scope of the convention define the choice of court agreements, deal with matters of jurisdiction, recognition and enforcement and regulate various procedural matters which are well structured. it would be desirable to have the highest possible level of accession to this convention by third countries, because there would undoubtedly be greater legal certainty for international exclusive choice of court agreements and, consequently, more fluid trade between the participating states.
in writing. - i decided to vote in favour of the measure because it respects the needs of consumers in terms of insurance and at the same time provides more certainty in disputes.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the egf, the european globalisation adjustment fund, for 634 redundancies in the finnish shipbuilding sector. in a time of crisis such as the present one, the egf is a valuable instrument of support which cannot and must not, however, replace the reforms which europe must have the courage to undertake.
in writing. i voted in favour of mobilising the european globalisation adjustment fund because i believe that it is necessary to keep our european productive tool in a viable position and also to keep jobs in europe as long as possible.
in writing. i voted to save 634 redundancies in the shipbuilding industry.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report today in order to support the reintegration into the labour market of 577 workers laid off as a result of globalisation by stx finland oy, a shipbuilding company. the global maritime industry has changed dramatically in recent years and, as part of this trend, the eu market share has fallen from 13% in 2007 to 5% in the first three quarters of 2013, while the corresponding share of china, south korea and japan combined has increased from 77% in 2007 to 86% in the first three quarters of 2013. due to this significant expansion of asia in the shipbuilding market, coupled with a reduction in orders due to the economic crisis, the european sector is characterised by an overall overcapacity which has led to strong competition. i regret that italian companies cannot benefit from this fund because of the lack of support from local institutions.
in writing. i voted in favour of this request to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund with somewhat mixed feelings: i am glad that this fund is being used to help to put a stop to the industrial degradation caused by globalisation, but i am also sorry to see that workers and businesses are being hit so hard. i hope that these funds will also be used to create development alternatives, which are needed now more than ever.
in writing. i support the report on the mobilisation of the egf in connection with the application submitted by finland to support the reintegration into the labour market of redundant workers in stx finland oy. due to the significant expansion of asia in the shipbuilding market, countries such as china, south korea and japan saw their market share increase from 77% in 2007 to 86% in 2013 while the eu market share decreased from 13% in 2007 to 5% in 2013. europe, the heart of the modern shipbuilding industry, has lost ground to the low-cost asian countries. the egf provides personalised services for redundant workers, such as help finding a job, helping to start up a business and training. in particular, a measure called 'enterprise survey' will aim to obtain up-to-date information on the staffing needs of enterprises in the rauma region. i hope that today's vote will allow the reintegration of employees into the labour market and will also be a valuable help to the businesses affected by the crisis.
in writing. - the request for the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for finland. the commission is requesting the mobilisation of some eur 1.4 million to assist 565 beneficiaries in the maritime construction sector. i am in favour of the mobilisation of this fund as a general rule. i am aware that it is certainly not the instrument that can best help workers, but in the absence of alternatives it must nevertheless be supported.
in writing. - the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade. i supported the proposal to mobilise the egf for finland because it proposes the reintegration into the labour market of 565 redundant workers in stx finland oy, who lost their jobs as a result of the major changes in world trade due to globalisation.
in writing. i vote in favour of the application in question for the 634 workers in the rauma shipbuilding industry.
in writing. - i supported the report by mr sarvamaa, which contains the decision to mobilise the egf to support the reintegration into the labour market of the unemployed in the finnish transport manufacturing company stx finland oy. in the context of the economic crisis we are experiencing, we have repeatedly stressed the importance and effectiveness of an instrument such as the globalisation adjustment fund. by using the most appropriate criteria for destination, europe is once again demonstrating its solidarity mission and its practical ability to help those who are suffering the most from the effects of a devastating economic crisis.
in writing. i supported the proposal to mobilise the egf in respect of redundancies in the finnish shipbuilding sector in order to support the reintegration into the labour market of 577 workers made redundant by stx finland oy, a shipbuilding company. the european globalisation adjustment fund has been established as a legislative and budgetary instrument to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major changes in the structure of world trade and to facilitate their reintegration into the labour market in sustainable economic sectors.
in writing. - the european union has a duty to provide legislative and budgetary instruments to provide additional support to workers who are victims of the market changes brought about by globalisation. in finland, the closure of stx rauma could seriously affect the welfare of many workers in the region, as the shipping and metallurgical sectors are vital economic activities for the country. that is why i thought it appropriate to support the sarvamaa report, which supports the mobilisation of the egf to help a large number of finnish workers in difficulty.
in writing. - considering that the finnish authorities have submitted a specific application for a financial contribution from the egf following the dismissal of 577 workers in stx finland oy, a company active in the manufacture and transport of equipment, considering that the maritime industry has experienced a drastic decline of 7% since 2005, considering that the commission has considered that the criteria for the application of the european globalisation adjustment fund are met, for these reasons i am voting in favour.
in writing. as mentioned in the past, the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) is an instrument that provides additional support to workers who are suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in world trade, which are also due to the general crisis. finland's request to mobilise the fund for the reintegration into the labour market of redundant workers in stx finland oy (an undertaking in the 'manufacture of other means of transport', in this case shipbuilding) qualifies for a financial contribution under the egf regulation. i hope that the personalised services that the finnish company's redundant workers will benefit from (including coaching, training and retraining, entrepreneurship promotion and training and advisory services, travel, accommodation and relocation allowances) will help them to re-enter the labour market, even though the risk of prolonged unemployment may persist due to the relatively advanced age of many of the company's workers.
in writing. - i have decided to vote in favour of taking action in favour of 613 redundancies in the shipbuilding sector.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the egf to help 760 french workers in the pigmeat slaughter and processing industry. the european globalisation adjustment fund is one of the most important instruments through which the eu can make a real contribution to help all those workers who have lost their jobs as a result of the economic crisis or the adverse effects of the internal market. i would point out that the committee on budgets of the european parliament itself, when asked to assess the case in question, stated: 'considers that there were other factors which had a significant impact on the company's difficulties, such as unfair competition in the internal market by competitors who abused the posting of workers directive ...'.
in writing. i voted in favour of mobilising the european globalisation adjustment fund because i believe that it is necessary to keep our european productive tool in a viable position and also to keep jobs in europe as long as possible.
in writing. - i voted in favour of saving 760 jobs in the slaughter and meat processing sector.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report today in order to support the reintegration into the labour market of 744 workers made redundant by gad, a butcher and meat-processing company, as a result of globalisation. the gad has been squeezed into the grip of a twofold price pressure: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not disrupted by the effects of the crisis. the decline in meat consumption is due to the increase in prices and a deterioration in consumer purchasing power linked to the global financial and economic crisis. the objective of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) is to facilitate the rapid reintegration of these redundant workers into working life by means of personalised support measures, such as assistance in finding a job, vocational guidance, training and retraining, promotion of self-employment and entrepreneurship. i regret that italian companies cannot benefit from this fund because of the lack of support from local institutions.
in writing. the applications for mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund are always worth voting in favour of: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. we must create alternatives, or at least encourage them, but we must also give oxygen to the territories that are hard hit by a crisis that adds to the international situation and the historic moment.
in writing. i support the report on the mobilisation of the egf in respect of the application submitted by france to support the reintegration of redundant workers in the gad, société anonyme simplifiée, operating in the slaughter and meat processing sector. the gad has faced two price pressures: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union's agricultural policy, in particular the future of the cap, the future of the cap and the future of the cap. as this situation lasted for more than 5 years, the company found itself in serious financial difficulties. this greatly aggravates the problem of unemployment in brittany, since this region is more dependent on the agro-industrial sector than the french average. i hope that today's vote will allow the reintegration of employees into the labour market and will also be a valuable help to the businesses affected by the crisis.
in writing. the call for funds from the european globalisation adjustment fund for france is to mobilise around eur 900 000 to assist 760 workers in a slaughterhouse and meat processing company. we also note positively that the figure requested appears rather small in relation to the number of beneficiaries. i am aware that the european globalisation adjustment fund is not an exhaustive means of safeguarding workers' rights and i am confident that there is a more appropriate instrument, so i think it is appropriate to support this request.
in writing. - i supported the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for france, because it supports the reintegration into employment of the 565 workers laid off by gad, a firm hit hard by the world economic and financial crisis. the egf is a supplementary instrument to support all those workers who are affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade.
in writing. i voted in favour of the request in favour of the 760 workers in the pigmeat slaughter and processing industry.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mrs anneli jäätteenmäki. as in the previous case, this is a question of allocating resources to ensure the reintegration of certain dismissed workers into the labour market. the case concerned the workers of gad société anonyme simplifiée, an undertaking operating in the food industry classified in nace rev. 2 division 10, who lost their jobs in france as a result of the world economic and financial crisis. the european globalisation adjustment fund can make a positive and practical contribution to this.
in writing. i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for france to support the reintegration of 565 workers made redundant by gad, a company active in the slaughter and processing of pigmeat. the egf is one of the most important instruments with which the eu can provide concrete support for redundant workers who have lost their jobs as a result of the economic crisis.
in writing. - the purpose of the egf is to support, through training and reintegration programmes, those who lose their jobs as a result of the global financial and economic crisis. my agreement with the jäätteenmäki report, which supports the mobilisation of this financial instrument for the benefit of 744 redundant workers in a british slaughterhouse, is based on the conviction that it will really help to create new employment opportunities.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, considering that the french authorities submitted the application egf/2014/005 fr/gad on 6 june 2014 following the dismissal of 744 workers from gad société anonyme simplifiée, a company operating in the food industry, considering that according to the french authorities gad was caught in the grip of a double price pressure, namely that of farmers, who are having difficulty coping with the increase in feed prices, and that of consumers with a low income, considering that workers are already supported by various measures to help them find a new job, and considering that the commission has considered that the criteria for the application of the european globalisation adjustment fund exist, for these reasons i am voting in favour.
in writing. the egf (european globalisation adjustment fund) is being mobilised in france for the reintegration of redundant workers in gad, a food industry company, according to a proposal for a decision adopted by the commission. the french authorities have stated that the global economic crisis has led to a decrease in the consumption of pigmeat in europe, which was higher than the consumption of other types of meat because its price increased more exponentially due to the increase in the cost of pig feed (such as maize, wheat, barley and soybeans) which in turn suffered a reduction in production due to the drought that affected the production areas. i hope that the personalised services for workers financed by the fund will help them to re-skill. in this specific case, it is a consultancy and guidance service that a group of experts will give to the workers.
in writing. i have decided to vote in favour of the intervention for 760 redundancies in the pigmeat slaughter and processing sector.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution calling on the court of justice to rule on the compatibility of the eu-canada pnr agreement with the european treaties.
in writing. i abstained from voting on this text because i believe that the european union must be at the forefront of personal data protection and that an exchange of data like this can clearly harm european citizens.
in writing. - i voted yes . the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment.
in writing. - i voted today in favour of the resolution on the request for the european court of justice to give an opinion on the eu-canada agreement signed on 25 june on the transfer of passenger name record (pnr) data. it is essential that the legal uncertainty regarding the compatibility of the draft eu-canada agreement with the provisions of the treaties and the eu charter of fundamental rights relating to the right of individuals to the protection of personal data be resolved. there are obvious privacy implications that deserve our attention. i note that the pnr has proved to be a useful tool in the repression of serious crime and, in particular, the current agreement with canada has allowed the seizure of large quantities of cocaine and the significant reduction in cases of child abduction and trafficking in child pornography. the adoption of the motion does not stop the transfer of pnr data to canada, which continues under the current agreement.
in writing. - the right to respect for private and family life and the right to the protection of personal data are enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights; article 52 of the charter makes the lawfulness of restrictions on those rights subject to compliance with the principle of proportionality, thus making only those restrictions admissible which are genuinely necessary for the purposes of the general interest as recognised by the union or for the protection of the rights and freedoms of others. in its judgment of 8 april, the court of justice provided some clarifications which, while not providing an answer to the question of the validity of the agreement between canada and the union on pnr, in several respects confirm the doubts raised by the european data protection supervisor. the complexity and sensitivity of the matter make it appropriate to allow the court of justice to express its opinion at this stage, so as to overcome any legal uncertainty and be sure to approve an agreement fully in line with the fundamental rights of citizens. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. i voted against this motion for a resolution. i think it's populist and unnecessary at this stage. the pnr system, which has already been rejected by this parliament, is a tool in the fight against international organized crime and, above all, terrorism, the greatest threat to public security in our time. this resolution, if adopted, would have slowed down the process of reaching a new agreement with canada on the regulation of data exchange, but it would not have interrupted the current flow of information in a way that no one likes. i do not support initiatives that go against the interests of the people i represent.
in writing. in 2005, the eu adopted the agreement on the transfer of passenger data requested by the us and canada after the attacks of 11 september 2001. during the year, an amendment to the agreement was brought to the attention of the european union, and a request for an opinion of the court of justice of the european union on its compatibility with the eu charter of fundamental rights was raised. i voted against the request for an opinion to the court of justice because i believe that the new amended agreement on the transfer of passenger data is absolutely valid and therefore that there is little need for the court to intervene. in the present situation, where the threat of terrorism has re-emerged in the form of new extremist groups such as the islamic state, the proper identification of each individual and the exchange of data on him are certainly necessary for the sake of greater security and protection of the citizens of the countries that are part of the agreement. the agreement would also ensure more effective management of border systems, guaranteeing citizens the right not to be subject to unnecessary suspicion or controls due to a lack of information from the authorities.
in writing. in 2005, the european union concluded an agreement with canada on the processing of passenger name record data based on a series of commitments by the canadian agency for cross-border services in relation to the implementation of its air carrier reservation code programme. i am in favour of adopting this resolution because this agreement does not provide sufficient guarantees for the protection of passengers' personal data. the compatibility with the court of justice's ruling that the data retention directive was invalid is being discussed. i support the rapporteur's request because the conclusion of an international agreement providing for lower data protection standards than those provided for by current european legislation would be binding on any new provisions on data transfers to third countries.
in writing. - passenger name records (pnr) are personal data provided by passengers to airlines for commercial purposes. this data is an important tool in the fight against crime, as it is reported by air carriers to accredited facilities for the purpose of combating terrorism, drug trafficking and other serious crime. the current agreement with canada has stopped cases of child abduction and allowed the seizure of large quantities of cocaine and child pornography. i voted against this motion for a resolution because the time for a ruling by the court of justice could vary from two to four years and this will lead to significant delays in the finalisation of the agreement with canada.
in writing. i am voting in favour of the proposal because i think it is not wrong at all to demand greater guarantees for the right to privacy. it is a duty, in fact, given the abuses and violations that are sometimes committed in violation of fundamental personal freedoms.
in writing. - my vote against the motion for a resolution on the opinion of the court of justice on the compatibility with the treaty of the agreement between canada and the eu on the transfer and processing of pnr data is not to be interpreted as a lack of attention to the protection of citizens' data. it is a form of additional protection for european citizens. it is undeniable that the pnr has proved to be a useful tool in the fight against terrorism, drug trafficking and other serious forms of crime. we cannot afford any further delays in finalising the agreement with canada which would in no way stop the transfer of pnr data to this country, which would continue under the existing agreement. we cannot also prejudice the work of the european commission on a pnr directive which aims to harmonise the rules and procedures by which member states oblige air carriers operating to and from their territory to communicate pnr data for security purposes. it is a matter of taking the security of our citizens into account and not of undermining the protection of their personal data.
in writing. - i thought i should vote against this report because i believe that it is inappropriate to extend the time for ratification of the agreement which is the subject of this report, also in view of the excellent relations between the eu and canada. i understand the request to refer the matter to the court of justice, but i think that having already ratified such agreements, which have been examined and found to be compatible with the treaties, to insist on the request could be a mere delaying tactic.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution calling on the court of justice to rule on the compatibility of the eu-canada passenger name record (pnr) agreement with the european treaties. this is a form of guarantee for the protection and security of european citizens and the protection of their personal data.
in writing. - i have decided not to support the report, as i consider it superfluous for the court of justice to be called upon to rule on the compatibility with the treaties of the agreement between canada and the european union on the transfer and processing of reservation code data by air carriers to the canadian border services agency. the existence of similar agreements with other countries suggests that the court will accept the lawfulness of the text. in the final analysis, i believe that this request is nothing more than a political ploy to delay the ratification of the agreement.
in writing. i welcome the outcome of today's vote which saw my party, the socialists and democrats, the main progressive force in the european parliament, support the request for a legal opinion from the court of justice of the european union before the vote on the eu-canada agreement on the exchange of passenger name records (pnr) in the fight against crime and terrorism. i believe that this is a necessary step to avoid making the same mistakes as in the past. i am referring in particular to the ruling by the court of justice of the eu last april that the data retention directive was unlawful as it would violate the fundamental right to privacy and the protection of personal data. it is therefore essential to ensure that this agreement does not end up in the same way. as legislators, we must ensure that the decisions we take are in line with the charter of fundamental rights and current eu legislation.
in writing. - considering that in 2005 the european union concluded an agreement with canada on the processing of passenger name record (pnr) data, considering that with the expiry of the relevant commission decision in september 2009 the european legal basis for the transmission of pnr data to the cbsa ceased to exist, considering that the cbsa continued to provide the above data, considering that it was not necessary to sign a further agreement, and considering that, following the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, the conclusion of new pnr agreements requires the european parliament to give its consent before they are adopted by the council, i therefore vote against.
in writing. the new pnr agreement negotiated with canada is a very balanced text and also strengthens the safeguards on the processing of personal data. in addition, canada has agreed to take a number of unilateral commitments as agreed. the 2010 resolution, where the eu opened negotiations on pnr with canada, set out minimum requirements that canada has fully complied with. thanks to this agreement, we have seen that the pnr has produced good results in terms of the repression of serious forms of crime, such as the seizure of large quantities of cocaine and the fight against the kidnapping of minors and the trafficking of child pornography. accepting the request of the court of justice to examine the compatibility with the treaties - which is why i voted against - would lead to a significant delay in the finalisation of the agreement with canada, even if there would be no consequences as regards the transfer of pnr data to canada. i hope that, in view of the excellent results achieved, a harmonised eu pnr system can be achieved in the near future.
in writing. - i decided to vote in favour because i believe it is absolutely necessary to ask for greater guarantees for the right to privacy in view of the abuses and violations that are sometimes committed in violation of fundamental personal freedoms.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, eradicating poverty, ending world hunger and combating inequality and social exclusion are ethical and moral imperatives even before they are binding objectives enshrined in the united nations millennium declaration. the european union, as the world's largest donor of development aid, has a great responsibility. it can and must play a crucial role at the international level in the revision of the new post-2015 millennium development goals scheduled for next year. these objectives must of course be identified with due regard for the competences of the member states in order to guarantee equal dignity for every human person. a dignified existence means upholding and fighting for respect for human rights, creating the conditions for truly sustainable development, guaranteeing equitable and universal access to health and food security and, above all, guaranteeing access to quality education, an essential tool for the real long-term development of self-sufficient societies. as pope francis told us just an hour ago, europe must return to being fully itself, and he did so with a great message of hope and confidence. so we have to pick it up.
in writing. - i did not vote for this text which attempts to put an approach to environmental policy and the issue of climate change that i do not share among the priorities of the poorest communities. i do not think that the issues raised in the report are priorities compared with issues such as development and the eradication of poverty.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because i believe it clearly identifies the main challenges for the european union after 2015.
in writing. - i voted against it. the report seeks to engage parliament on too many fronts to the detriment of practicality and there is an overemphasis on a preeminent role for the union in the conduct of these policies to the detriment of the member states.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report today. in many countries, the mdgs have not been met at all. moreover, even where considerable progress has been made, it has not led to the elimination of very high levels of inequality. certain groups, such as people living in slums or peripheral regions, religious minorities and people with disabilities, continue to be excluded from the achievement of these objectives. i believe that understanding the reason for this exclusion is crucial to making development efforts more effective and inclusive in the future. the feelings of exclusion and alienation that result from this situation can undermine social cohesion. so i think the global development framework should reflect a greater awareness of the fundamental importance of inclusion: no person, regardless of ethnicity, geography, disability or race, can be denied universal human rights and basic economic opportunities.
in writing. - i support the report because i firmly believe that the eu must take a strong, clear and coherent position on the global development framework after 2015. the eradication of poverty must remain the top priority of the post-2015 development agenda, alongside economic, ecological and social sustainability.
in writing. humanity faces great new challenges. after the millennium development goals, which were set for the first 15 years of the 21st century, we must start looking beyond them. i voted in favour of this negotiating mandate so that the eu can make its voice heard at the united nations with regard to sustainable development, so that the views of all countries, including industrialized countries, are taken into account and reasoning with rationalistic logic is stopped. it is the wealth that is generated that counts, not the parameters.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the eu and the global development framework post 2015. i am in favour of the creation of a renewed global partnership, characterised by total coverage and able to recognise the contribution of all types of instruments and to include technologies and innovation, capacity development and trade. global challenges are set to increase due to serious situations such as poverty, human rights violations, armed conflict and terrorism, climate change, unemployment, demographic change, corruption, unsustainable growth and financial and economic crises. these are just some of the challenges facing the eu, and we must certainly have the will to finally achieve a definitive development goal as our flagship. the post-2015 framework requires a human rights-based approach in addition to the promotion of peaceful societies, by seeking to drastically reduce poverty, by promoting, as highlighted by the rio+20 commitments, a fight against soil and land degradation, and by also recognising that water is at the heart of sustainable development. to do this, new development models must be defined that ensure inclusive and sustainable development.
in writing. - in september 2000, the united nations adopted the millennium declaration, which led to the creation of concrete development goals to be achieved by 2015. i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that the priorities of the post-2015 development framework should be articulated around key points such as poverty eradication through the fight against inequalities and sustainable development, conflict prevention, post-conflict reconstruction, peace building and peace promotion. i can only vote in favour of this resolution to ensure that the post-2015 framework guarantees an approach based on human rights and justice, equality and equity, good governance, democracy and the rule of law and ultimately peaceful and non-violent societies.
in writing. - the world landscape has changed profoundly, with economic and political balances clearly shifting towards some emerging economies, which, however, still find themselves living with high levels of inequality. the european union has a duty to play an active role in the process of reshaping the balance in those areas and countries, by engaging with all stakeholders, including the private sector, civil society organisations, local authorities and national parliaments. in this sense, trade policy, for example, while aimed exclusively at economistic objectives, must be geared to promoting our core values, helping to generate fair models capable of ensuring sustainable economic growth and jobs; improving people's living and working conditions; strengthening sustainable development, promoting social standards and environmental sustainability. europe's role in the global paradigm will be to help strengthen labour standards, human rights and fundamental freedoms and to create economic growth that promotes a fair distribution of wealth, helps to fight poverty and improves the quality of development.
in writing. i do not support the report because there is no clear commitment and many points are at the expense of the national sovereignty of the individual member states. it's like a wish list without the necessary substance to make it happen.
in writing. - in a few months we will be entering into negotiations to define a new global agenda for the post-2015 period. the world is about to discuss a new global approach to development that is broader and universal and not just for poor countries. while recognising the important achievements since the 2000 millennium declaration, there is still much work to be done in the face of the growing global challenges we face. our response must be to respect the dignity of every human being: this is a fundamental requirement for addressing the root causes of poverty, social exclusion and inequality. parliament stressed that gender equality and women's rights are a necessary condition for the success of the global development framework post-2015. in particular, we recognised the important contribution of women to conflict prevention and to peace and democracy building efforts.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of mr stier's report, as it highlights the fact that poverty eradication and the fight against inequalities are the fundamental principles of the global development framework after 2015. i believe that the european union must adopt an approach that guarantees justice, equality and fairness. i certainly agree with the rapporteur that the elimination of all forms of violence against women must be a priority for the new framework.
in writing. - i vote in favour of the report identifying the priorities for the post-2015 development framework. the aim of this measure is to contribute to the definition of a coherent position by establishing principles and guidelines for the new negotiating strategy of the european union.
in writing. - the european union needs to adopt a rights-based approach, guaranteeing justice, equality, fairness and good governance. it is equally important that the post-2015 agenda can rely on a deeply renewed global partnership, able to address the growing challenges of poverty, inequality, education and health. it is for these reasons that i have agreed to the stier report, which highlights the eradication of poverty and the fight against inequalities as the fundamental principles of the global development framework post 2015. i particularly agree with the rapporteur that the elimination of all forms of violence against women must be a priority for the new framework.
in writing. - the european parliament has always worked towards an ambitious global development agenda for the period after 2015. we therefore welcome this report as well, because it aims to contribute to the definition of a coherent position, by laying down the principles and guidelines of the new negotiating strategy of the european union. we call for the global issues of poverty, health, food security, education, gender equality, water and sanitation, sustainable energy, decent work, inclusive and sustainable growth, inequalities, sustainable consumption and production, and biodiversity to be addressed. in particular, we intend to urge the united nations to make gender equality, women's rights, women's empowerment and the human rights of women and girls an independent goal and an essential requirement for equitable and inclusive sustainable development. we believe that the time has come to provide for a specific action plan on gender equality, accompanied by the necessary financing mechanism including specific budgetary instruments to combat the cross-cutting and structural factors that generate disparities and multiple forms of discrimination both in the european union and in the rest of the world.
in writing. - having regard to the fact that the millennium development goals to be achieved by 2015 have made a major contribution to improving people's lives by reducing poverty, and having regard to the fact that the post-2015 agenda requires a profoundly renewed global partnership, which will make it possible to strengthen the commitment of the international community to tackling the main global challenges, and having regard, finally, to the fact that the definition of a coherent eu position would make it possible to set the guidelines for a negotiating strategy, i shall vote in favour.
in writing. - i vote in favour of the report identifying the priorities for the post-2015 development framework. in particular, i believe that the eradication of poverty, the fight against inequality and sustainable development cannot be achieved without a commitment to climate change, food security, without a real commitment to fight against the use of fossil fuels that degrade soil, water and the environment, denying future generations the future they deserve.
in writing. the fight against poverty is, unfortunately, still a current battle. despite the tangible benefits of achieving some of the millennium development goals, much remains to be done. by, and beyond, 2015. the eu and its member states are the main donors of development aid: the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. however, a new approach is needed to build a development agenda beyond 2015, one that is more structural and less opportunistic: aid policies must be implemented within a uniform and coherent framework of universal development which takes account of natural needs and diversity. to this end, europe must have a strong and cohesive position. in its role as guardian of human rights, it must work to ensure the rights of women, children and minorities, to ensure education, access to sanitation, drinking water and employment, in a framework of promotion of sustainable development involving all actors: the european commission has also been active in the field of education and training. because fighting inequality is a duty for all of us.
in writing. i am pleased that the council and parliament have given their support to the overall eu position defined by the commission on the post-2015 agenda. i believe that the title chosen for the communication is effective and expresses the will of what we want to achieve as a goal in terms of global development: 'a dignified existence for all'. the european union is committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy, based on the principles of the united nations charter, and to the principles of the united nations charter. of course, all this can only be achieved with a clear and ambitious agenda, based on human rights and protection, where the priorities and strategic objectives are clearly outlined as parliament has done. i hope that the council's conclusions will clearly set out the principles and guidelines of the eu strategy for the years ahead. in addition, third countries that share the eu's priorities should be involved more systematically, and the eu must take the lead in doing so.
in writing. - i have decided to vote no for these two reasons: excessive emphasis on a pre-eminent eu and un policy-making role on post-2015 development by the union at the expense of member states and support for environmental and climate change policies that i do not fully share and that are not priorities with regard to issues such as development and poverty eradication.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of this resolution four years after the launch of the strategy and after the commission proposed that it be revised, pointing out that progress towards the objectives has been extremely uneven in terms of employment and poor in terms of poverty reduction. the number of people at risk of poverty or social exclusion in 2013 is 122 million, and the target was 96 million. so an absolutely timely response is required. to this end, in an integrated area such as the euro area, coordination of all economic policy instruments will therefore be essential. budgetary constraints, slow growth and the erosion of economic potential mean that a european vision based on the promotion of investment must be considered. a genuine global investment policy is essential to stimulate demand and growth. a greater effort by both the member states in the more targeted use of the structural funds and the commission in strengthening gender and youth employment policies through greater information sharing will be essential.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the europe 2020 strategy, as we are all aware, represents a great opportunity to use the 960 billion budget foreseen in the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020 in a way that is consistent with the real priorities. but it risks becoming a lost opportunity unless there is a decisive change in the allocation of resources and the activities of the union. we all share the idea that the benefits of growth should be felt by society as a whole, but reducing inequalities should be seen not only as a possible result of growth or as a side goal but first and foremost as a means to foster growth. the more we combat forms of exploitation and speculation, the more resources can go to current and potential workers, reducing unemployment and precariousness and increasing production and consumption. the resolution goes in this direction, also calling for concrete measures to help peripheral and less favoured regions in the development of investment programmes under the europe 2020 strategy. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. - i abstained on this report because i do not agree with the modus operandi of this europe of empty slogans and strategies which fail. the truth is that the fantasy european strategies always conceal an asymmetry of interests between what is intended and wanted for the big ones and what is only announced for the small ones. it is not surprising, then, that what is in the interests of capital, banks and multinationals is quietly pursued but is realised, while what is in the interests of ordinary citizens or small businessmen is celebrated but remains inexorably on paper. the truth is that today this europe is an ideological-financial construct, allergic to democracy and aimed at expanding the forces of the market beyond all limits. this europe, conceived in this way, can only oppose any form of self-government and self-determination, and instead favour processes of globalisation, privatisation and deregulation. the process of european integration is not only reducing the differences between peoples but also depriving them of any freedom: and that includes mutual aid, which is the foundation of all welfare. what is needed is not to define another european strategy or to adjust the existing one. what is needed today is an exit strategy from this europe.
in writing. to be credible and effective, the european union must create the conditions for linking its investments in cooperation to the fight against adaptation and climate change.
in writing. - i abstained. the text is not convincing in terms of its concrete content and its results.
in writing. - today i voted in favour of the resolution on employment and social aspects of the europe 2020 strategy, which sets the target of 75% of the population aged 20 to 64 being employed by 2020. i believe that, in addition to achieving a higher rate of employment, it is absolutely essential to move towards a higher quality of employment. it is therefore necessary that the indicators on the subject focus not only on the number of people finding a job but also on the quality of the job itself and that the objectives of creating quality employment and quality jobs and ensuring resource efficiency are made more effective and visible in the framework of the flagship initiatives of the europe 2020 strategy. finally, financial and economic priorities must be balanced against social priorities, and the latter must be strengthened to ensure that social policies can be implemented.
in writing. - in view of the high rate of poverty and unemployment, especially among young people, which europe is facing, i believe that the member states should actively focus on employment policies, paying particular attention to the outermost regions affected by natural handicaps, isolation, geographical discontinuity and economic fragility. this exacerbates inequalities in access to employment, training and training opportunities for the population. i would stress that these regions require enhanced specific investment mechanisms in order to implement programmes aimed at achieving the europe 2020 objectives and exploiting their potential in terms of economic and social development. for all these reasons i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution.
in writing. one of the areas where the eu needs to change is in the way it deals with the major issues of our time, in particular the labour emergency. i believe that the mid-term review of the 2020 targets is a good opportunity to take stock of the situation and to make the change we all expect. i have voted in favour of this hope and i will continue to ensure that, as the pope said, the technocrats do not win, but that technology serves the greater political objectives.
in writing. - since 2010, the number of unemployed or at risk of poverty and social exclusion in the european union has increased on average and today there are 120 million europeans living in poverty or at risk of poverty. the commission forecasts that an additional 16 million citizens will need to be employed to reach the 75% employment target set by the europe 2020 strategy. in addition, disparities in employment rates between member states and regions are increasing, with the consequent risk of greater social imbalances in the long run. i am voting in favour of this resolution also to support the minimum wage guaranteed at european level.
in writing. - it is disheartening to note that, despite all the words and documents that are being produced, the union is still far from having achieved the employment and poverty reduction objectives set out in the europe 2020 strategy. on the contrary, also because of the crisis we are going through, but not only because of that crisis, the rates of unemployment - particularly youth unemployment - and of poverty - concentrated in certain specific areas of the continent - have increased, in some cases to a disproportionate degree. there is one particular figure that strikes me, and that is the increase in families at risk of poverty. it is a hidden indicator with worrying implications. for example, it is directly linked to the increase in the rate of school drop-out, which has suddenly increased in some european regions. the resources of the european social fund must be used and concentrated to finance programmes and pathways of recovery in the training of so many young people who have left it too soon. europe cannot afford to lose the challenge of education and, as a result, to have thousands of its citizens excluded from the global circuits of knowledge and progress.
in writing. i shall abstain because there are some aspects of the report which are absolutely acceptable and others which are not. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
in writing. - this resolution clearly identifies the order of priority in the light of the serious economic and social conditions at the moment and at the same time acknowledges the serious delay in the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy. we must recover the essence of the europe 2020 strategy to increase social cohesion in a europe at risk of disintegration. the tragedy is the exponential increase in poverty and therefore inequality in europe. the first and biggest problem, which is generating the increase in poverty and inequality, is the increase in unemployment. if we do not want to fail the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, we must attack all the structural factors that are prolonging the crisis. i believe that the main way forward is, on the one hand, through labour market reform to promote good employment and the rightly promising resolution to pool the most positive and fruitful experiences developed at national and regional levels. the other pillar is training, and the resolution gives impetus to the so-called dual school-work system which is by far the most useful in enhancing people's employability. finally, support for job creators, existing businesses which should be encouraged and rewarded for their work support initiatives. all of these aspects are well addressed in the resolution.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of the report by mrs marita ulvskog because i am convinced that it can bring great benefits to the european union by ensuring sustainable growth based on the defence of rights. in addition, mrs ulvskog's report pays particular attention to the situation of women and the protection of their fundamental rights, which unfortunately are not always guaranteed.
in writing. - the resolution of the employment and social aspects of the eu 2020 strategy represents a great opportunity to use the 960 billion budget foreseen in the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020. it also promotes concrete measures to help the most deprived regions in the development of investment programmes under the europe 2020 strategy. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. - i have decided to offer my support to the ulvskog report, as i believe that the europe 2020 strategy can help to fuel sustainable and inclusive growth within the european union. i particularly appreciated the reference in the document to the need to safeguard women's rights in the context of the implementation of the strategy itself.
in writing. the european parliament, in order to reignite the debate on the social and employment dimension of european integration, today tabled a resolution to accompany two oral questions to the commission and the council on the employment and social aspects of the europe 2020 strategy, which was voted in plenary by a large majority. the resolution highlights the need and importance of keeping the debate on these important issues open, as the credibility of the eu2020 strategy is now at serious risk as most of the objectives set out in it have so far, also due to the economic crisis, remained on paper. just think that since 2010, the number of people at risk of poverty has increased by about 7 million, instead of decreasing by 20 million as hoped. the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the social indicators to include the social indicators of the member states, and to make them binding. i am particularly pleased that, for the first time, thanks to the mediation work of the s&d group, a fundamental principle has been adopted that from now on considerations concerning employment and social aspects will have to be equated with macroeconomic ones within the european semester.
in writing. - we believe it is essential that, by adopting this resolution, member states are called upon to take a more ambitious and concrete approach in translating eu objectives into their own national commitments. we certainly take note of the work being done on the theme 'beyond growth', thanks to the efforts of the italian presidency, and we believe that this should contribute to the revision of the europe 2020 strategy. we call for the inclusion in the europe 2020 strategy of a mandatory comparative learning principle in member states' policies, especially with regard to the european labour market; this would allow for the implementation of effective monitoring and recording of best practices in models and methods in europe. finally, we recommend that, in the context of a new investment programme to combat unemployment, attention be focused on combating youth unemployment, which is one of the most serious problems in the european union today. in this connection, we believe that new funds should be allocated to the 'erasmus for young entrepreneurs' programme, with the aim of more effectively supporting entrepreneurship and the mobility of young people as an effective means of combating youth unemployment, poverty and social exclusion.
in writing. - considering that in 2005 the european union concluded an agreement with canada on the processing of passenger name record (pnr) data, considering that with the expiry of the relevant commission decision in september 2009 the european legal basis for the transmission of pnr data to the cbsa ceased to exist, considering that the cbsa continued to provide the above data, considering that it was not necessary to sign a further agreement, and considering that following the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, the conclusion of new pnr agreements requires the european parliament's approval before they are adopted by the council, i therefore express my opposition.
in writing. the commission has started the process of reviewing the europe 2020 strategy with the aim of presenting new proposals in a few months. it is clear that, in the wake of the global economic crisis, the main objectives of the strategy, formulated in 2010 (employment, education, social inclusion, innovation and climate/energy), need to be, in my view, completely re-formulated. i therefore find, and i voted in favour of the motion, that the overall analysis of the new strategy lacks in several respects a greater focus on the current problems which are obvious to all. the employment situation in europe is very worrying at the moment, with social groups in serious difficulty and the categories most affected. the strategy must therefore be more effective in tackling the social issues of poverty reduction and increased employment, with a more sectoral and sustainable approach, with a more targeted use of the structural funds and more youth policies, avoiding a focus on macroeconomic growth alone.
in writing. - four years after the launch of the europe 2020 strategy, we are still far from achieving the employment and social objectives we set ourselves. the report shows that the average unemployment rate in the european union in 2014 was over 10% and that one in four europeans were at risk of poverty or social exclusion. the answer to these alarming figures cannot be found in the imposition of new binding employment and poverty reduction targets, nor in the possible introduction of additional social indicators. it is time for the european dialogue to take on a more concrete dimension, focusing on the analysis of effective solutions to create new jobs and thus boost both economic and social growth in europe. i hope that the resolution adopted today will go in this direction, stimulating the development of a more constructive strategy, based on the exchange of best practice between member states, innovation and targeted economic interventions that ensure, for example, better access to finance for small and mediumsized enterprises, greater stability in the financial sector and the promotion of new public-private partnerships.
the vote will be taken at the next voting time.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i must be honest, i was very impressed by what happened with the conciliation. i expected the european institutions to cooperate seriously to achieve an objective which they all supported in words. the reality is, unfortunately, very different. the council has in fact completely disregarded the whole matter until the last hours, forcing parliament to reject its last minute proposal. i've heard of tactics and strategies, and even here i'm left very puzzled. what's the point of all this? is it to win an institutional iron fist or to really serve the interests of the european citizens? we made it clear: if there are any problems that have been solved in the past, we are ready to help, but we would like to see a complete change of direction in the future. the commission should also be clear about its real intentions and needs, and should maintain a clear and well-defined position. finally, i regret to note the total inadequacy and complete failure of the italian presidency in this matter. undersecretary zanetti, please tell renzi to focus less on slogans and to deal with the real problems of the people.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the situation is so dangerous, as commissioner georgieva described it, that we can only get out of it by trying to have a europe that really recovers from the situation in which we find ourselves. of course, we must have a lot of courage - and i say this looking you in the face, madam commissioner - starting with the proposal that the commission will make next friday. courage is also required on the part of the council in the work that will be carried out in the various trilogues that will follow. because we have to give these answers, which have all been given to us today, to the citizens. we must pay the bills of our universities, our schools, our municipalities and our companies. this is not the time for tactics and prejudice, this is the time to put our cards on the table. it is also time to avoid the risk of giving air to anti-european sentiments. we must avoid this, and this is strong political work. you have to have courage. parliament is there and has proved it. we wait for the initiative and work together. i think it is an opportunity to revive and to have a strong proposal also in terms of prospects.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the failure of the negotiations which have taken place shows once again that there is a need for change, especially within the council. the commission has often, as we have seen in many, many circumstances, in many directives and in many negotiations, thought more of the interests of the member states than of its own collectivity. we cannot sanction those who do not pay, and we cannot produce and adopt directives requiring the timely payment of debts when the european union is the first to fail to do so. the european union must set a good example and pay its debts, otherwise only the weaker classes, the citizens, will be held responsible. we have a directive on late payment (this too has been one of the great successes), we enforce it, those who do not comply with it have infringements and then we are the first to fail to pay.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i wanted to make a somewhat broader point on the question of the european budget. i think we risk going on with this procedure every year, with parliament taking the position that it wants to go on doing more and the council continually trying to reduce the budget. i think that the question of own resources can no longer be avoided, because otherwise parliament's power as co-decision-maker on budgetary matters is effectively nullified, because parliament has no power vis-à-vis the council, which still has resources. i would therefore ask you to deal urgently with the question of own resources, so that the union's budget is a real budget and above all that the power of parliament - and here we are of course speaking on behalf of parliament - is not totally undermined by this situation, in which the purse strings are always held by the members of the council.
in writing. the deadlock we have reached in the budget conciliation is somewhat paradoxical. the paradox is that, despite the fact that the solution to the serious economic and political crisis the eu is going through is within reach, some governments are still refusing to act, not understanding that the economic recovery also passes through the budget of the european union. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report, which is a very good report, and i hope that the commission will be able to support it. the budget may seem to be made up of numbers, but this debate is probably the most political and fundamental debate we can have to give europe a soul again. a europe that does not look only at accounts and debts but that is concerned about the welfare of its citizens and about linking their interests and ambitions together. we now expect, after the commission's proposal, a proactive attitude from the council, which will seriously look at a solution to save the eu. parliament, representing 500 million citizens, is doing its part. we expect governments to do their part.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, today is the world day against violence against women and we are here to try to persuade the commission to legislate on the matter. although some competence falls to the member states, we would have expected a legislative initiative to be initiated by the commission at least as far as its competence is concerned, also considering that many states, including italy, have already ratified the istanbul convention and legislated to that effect. violence against women is not only physical, but often also and above all psychological, often confined within the walls of the home and often consummated in front of the helpless gaze of minors. there are often alarm bells that go unheard because of objectively flawed legislation, for which, if action had been taken in time, tragedies could have been avoided. i am thinking of the case of lucia annibali, who was disfigured with acid by two hit men hired by her ex-boyfriend, and the most recent case of cisterna di latina, where a man who had been repeatedly accused of abuse murdered his wife and then committed suicide in front of his six and seven year old children. ladies and gentlemen, let us not forget that femicide is on the rise. as shown in the latest eures report for 2013, italy alone has seen 179,000 cases... (the president cut the speaker off)
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i am somewhat perplexed today to find that the european executive does not consider the time to be ripe for joint legislation on preventing and combating gender-based violence. i would remind the commission that it itself had recognised gender-based violence as the main obstacle to achieving genuine gender equality. what, then, is the reason for the failure to transpose the parvanova report into legislation? the backwardness of the member states or the economic difficulties? president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this parliament has been insisting for some time that a proposal for a directive should finally be tabled to end the impunity for femicide, to encourage the exchange of good practice, to support the capacity to provide assistance at national level for the benefit of victims and to improve their access to justice. commissioner, you mentioned a number of percentages at the beginning of your speech: 33 per cent of women are victims of sexual violence from the age of 15, 20-25 per cent of women are victims of physical abuse at least once in their lives, but do you think that these existing instruments are sufficient to ensure adequate protection for victims? i am convinced that these figures are sufficient to justify the implementation of a pan-european measure establishing shared benchmarks. today, on this important day, we must speak about women and violence against women, because it is a matter of civilization and democracy as a whole.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i too would like to ask the new commissioner jourová today for a firm commitment to take concrete and effective measures to tackle one of the social ills affecting hundreds of thousands of women all over the world. women who, even in the most developed countries, are subject to violence and harassment, which all too often takes place in the safest place, which is the family. unfortunately, the current instruments are totally inadequate, as they are not binding, to deal with this problem which is growing in numbers and percentages day by day. the problem of gender-based violence cannot be a matter for individual member states; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. (the speaker agrees to answer a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a blue-card question. i believe that this vision is not mine. i am quite frankly aware that violence against women is still a cultural problem, a very cultural problem. gender discrimination that often takes place within the family, even in relationships between partners, where women's emancipation obviously still weighs heavily in some cases. but to call it honor violence, frankly, takes me back to a time long ago, which i hope is over.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it is not by chance that today's debate takes place on the occasion of the international day for the elimination of violence against women, a circumstance which makes us reflect even more on the seriousness of the phenomenon in all the countries of the union. in italy, for example, the annual report on voluntary murder by an accredited research and education center, published last week, found that 179 women were killed in 2013, or one victim every two days, and that there was a 14% increase in such serious crimes compared to 2012. and alarming and unfortunately increasing figures are being recorded in many other member states of the union. it is therefore clear that there is a need for concerted action by the states in the field of prevention and support for women victims of violence and in some cases their children who, let us not forget, are themselves victims of assisted violence, with serious consequences for their peace of mind and their mental development. i would therefore specifically ask the commission to adopt further legislative measures in addition to those already in place, but which are clearly insufficient, and to urge the ratification of the istanbul convention by all member states and by the union itself.
in writing. the data on violence against women across europe remain alarming. a more systematic approach is needed to tackle such a deep-rooted problem: the ratification of the istanbul convention should be just the first of many steps. more funds are needed to strengthen the reception and support structures for women who are victims of abuse and violence, more effective sanctions against the perpetrators of these evils, but at the same time, an overall strategy that acts on the side of prevention must also be identified: we need measures, legislative and non-legislative, to support a profound change in the conception of the role of women in our society. this is a european problem and it must be tackled at european level: violence against women is not a topic unconnected with problems such as female employment rates, the wage gap, the underrepresentation of women in the decision-making levels of society. they are all interdependent phenomena and should be treated as such. to this end, it would be extremely important to proclaim 2016 as the 'european year for the elimination of violence against women' in order to raise awareness and raise awareness of this issue, especially among young people, boys and girls.
in writing. violence against women is a dramatic social scourge which is still on the rise in italy, in the countries of the european union and beyond. in addition to legislation on this subject, administrative, legal and procedural procedures must be uniform throughout europe. the unequal approach to these issues in the various member states is not a positive diversity, and therefore a resource, but it weakens the effectiveness of the procedures by not guaranteeing adequate equal access to the victims of such violence. often victims of violence, being more often than not confined within the walls of their homes, have difficulty, especially for economic reasons, in reporting such shameful acts. the free legal aid should be extended and guaranteed in practice, because the lawyers of the other party often have more leeway and power than the victims, which results in a procedural imbalance between the prosecution and the defence. changing procedures and culture and preventing such violence by teaching gender respect in schools is a priority and urgent to combat this emergency.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am speaking on behalf of mrs ferrara, who is absent for health reasons. one year after the lampedusa tragedy, the european union is still looking for a good idea to deal with a situation that we can no longer call an emergency but a routine one. the police and repressive approach of the stockholm programme and the dublin agreements has led to 22 000 deaths, including 3 000 in the mediterranean this year alone. do we realise that europe's southern border for irregular migrants is the most dangerous border in the world? do you think it is possible to continue with this irresponsible handling of a complex and unstoppable phenomenon such as immigration? do you think it is wise to continue to build walls around this fortress called europe, allowing the mediterranean to become a great cemetery? migration from the south of the world is a direct consequence of the processes of globalisation being carried out in the north of the world, of which we are part and for which we as legislators are jointly responsible. we are increasing and making more efficient legal channels of access for asylum seekers, for family reunification, for job seekers. the emergency approach has created another monster, the reception machine, where people who work in a spirit of genuine solidarity are joined by unscrupulous speculators. we denounce the criminal economy of drug trafficking, prostitution, theft and black labour that thrives in the limbo of uncertain rules in the reception centres, especially in italy. what is europe's view of integrating migrants into its social fabric once they have been regulated? migrants are often young, educated, in good health and eager to contribute to the welfare of the host society. it is time for the european union to overcome its fears and to review its approach to migration policies: we are no longer migrants but citizens to be welcomed and integrated.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this seems to me to be a temple of hypocrisy and racism. we must help the immigrants who are fleeing wars and hunger, you say. the same wars that this european union is supporting and fuelling - i am thinking of the arab spring - and the same hunger that the idiotic rules of brussels and a meaningless single currency are bringing back not to africa, but to italy and europe. helping them at home and spending the money we're wasting on mare nostrum and triton is the only solution. not helping the divers, the british government was right to say "i'm not putting a penny into helping the divers to fuel a new slavery", so i'd like to see more britain in here and less hypocrisy. three thousand drowned, 150 000 immigrants landed in italy, of which only 10% are refugees - the other illegal immigrants - and many people who earn millions and millions of euros from it. this is slavery, not generosity. if borders have meaning, they must be defended, and as the league we will never tire of repeating it to you, until the end, until the end, until the end. it is too easy to applaud pope francis when he gets up and leaves, and then pope francis leaves a chamber like this, which spends billions of euros to fuel new social unrest, new chaos, new conflicts in our suburbs, not to help immigrants and much less to help european citizens. (the president agreed to reply to a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a blue-card question. the european union has a duty to help the countries of the region, and i am sure that the european union will do its utmost to help the countries of the region, and i am sure that the european union will do its utmost to help the countries of the region, and i am sure that the european union will do its utmost to help the countries of the region, and i am sure that the european union will do its utmost to help the countries of the region, and i am sure that the european union will do its utmost to help the countries of the region, and i am sure that the european union will do its utmost to help the countries of the region, and i am sure that the european union will do its utmost to help the countries of the region. so i think that here in the chamber the worst ways are often and willingly chosen which are against the interests of the european citizens.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, over the years the european union has made important progress towards a single asylum system. however, this did not seem to be enough in the face of the crisis which has been affecting the mediterranean countries since last year. it is not frontex, nor triton (and it is not enough), that is the answer to the pressures of migratory flows on the southern borders of the union. today, more than 90 percent of syrian refugees are granted political asylum, a figure that is very close to that of refugees of other nationalities, such as afghans or those from countries in the horn of africa. why is it so difficult for them to enter the european union? why are we not able to give hope, through european asylum offices, to the masses of desperate refugees who pour into the mediterranean every year? it is time to stress the values on which our institutions are founded, and in particular to rediscover solidarity and equal responsibility between states. i believe, mr president, that the time has come for the member states to harmonize the actual treatment of refugees in european territory, and for the commission to take up its role as guardian of the treaties and not hesitate to initiate infringement proceedings in the event of non-application of existing legislation.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to draw your attention to two statements. the first is that of the italian minister for the interior, according to whom mare nostrum has closed and after a break thanks to frontex not a single euro will be spent on rescues at sea. the second is from the british minister for immigration, who says that rescues in the mediterranean should be rescued as soon as possible, since they encourage refugees. i invite you to ponder these words, for they herald a possible crime against european civilization. the law of the sea, the right to life, to asylum, are dead letters. it is not sustainable to cause mass drownings, it is not sustainable to leave hundreds of syrians on hunger strike alone in these hours in athens, it is not sustainable to spend euros to save shipwrecked people. applause for pope bergoglio is hypocrisy, if this parliament does not change course, starting with the rules of procedure ... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are always making speeches and saying a series of well-intentioned things about the emotional impact of disasters at sea. but we must say that, to date, neither at national nor at european level have we been able to give concrete answers that really tackle the problem in a concrete and decisive way. i do not want to say that operation triton is a gift to italy, but let me say that operations like this cannot be considered permanent solutions either for migrants and refugees seeking assistance and protection, or for the european union, which needs to take back control and management of its borders. there are three things i don't particularly like about it: the first is that it was conceived along the lines of mare nostrum, which is a very costly failed operation and which has had the opposite effect, as they say, because there has been an exorbitant increase in flows (480%), an increase in the business of boatmen and human traffickers beyond any reasonable limit, and we have also had an increase in disasters at sea. we are also saying that only a few members of the european union will be making contributions, with a commitment which, we would like to say, is really not exceptional in terms of manpower and resources. and it also fails to address the basic issues that are fundamental to giving a resolution. the pope said it today: it is necessary to deal with the causes and not just the effects. we ask you to adopt these concrete and courageous policies - always the words of the pope - which help the countries of origin in their socio-political development and in overcoming internal conflicts.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, mr gozi, one year after the tragic events in lampedusa, europe has wanted to open its eyes to the problem of immigration. thanks to the efforts of the italian government, the problem of land for the first reception has been replaced by a genuinely european approach, with proposals for quotas for the distribution of immigrants and shared responsibilities. but the emergency remains. as pope francis reminded us in his stirring speech, the mediterranean cannot be a graveyard. italy has done its duty with mare nostrum, saving many lives. the operations are now continuing at full speed, but under frontex's guidance. in this connection, i ask: what obstacles prevent the extension of frontex's competences? what obstacles are there to an increase in its budget to enable it to implement the mediterranean control policies effectively? we are here today to ask for more, commissioner, because triton is not the final solution. we must change our strategy with courage and work to concentrate our efforts on the african coast, investing in the crisis countries where the problem exists, with bilateral agreements where possible or with european presidents. we must change the rules and that is why we are calling today for maximum commitment and courage to protect european citizens and at the same time the dignity of human life.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have said this before: the mediterranean is a european sea and we cannot allow it to be reduced to an open-air cemetery. the pope himself said so in this chamber today. it seems that some european leaders may argue that people should be left to die at sea in order to discourage others from leaving. i wish they'd come and explain it to the body count in lampedusa. it is the increase in wars that are looming over the mediterranean, it is the increase in discrimination and torture that is increasing the flows. well, obviously the only difference from before, when we didn't have the ships there, is that before we didn't see many of them die and frankly i find it scandalous that there are people in here who prefer not to see. triton will not be enough . the commission has too few resources and the range is too short (only 30 miles), and i hope that it will be strengthened. the border countries cannot do it alone, but the responsibility to be shared presupposes the need to anticipate our intervention with humanitarian corridors or at least humanitarian visas. i would like to hear from the commissioner how the debate is going in this respect.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, immigration is a european emergency, not just for sicily, the border country from which i come, or malta, spain or greece, which paid the highest price, especially in the initial phase, despite the indifference of many other member states. operation mare nostrum has finally come to an end. as my group leader, mr gardini, said, i believe it has served as a landing multiplier. this was also said by the executive director of frontex, who pointed out in the libe committee that in the first four months of 2014 they had increased by 823%, exactly two months after the start of operation mare nostrum. we have to move on. i hope, although i am very puzzled, that operation triton can play a role in this respect. however, it is a new feature in the involvement of 26 member states. but we also need to change the dublin iii agreement, whereby the first port state alone is responsible for granting or not granting asylum, and all member states are responsible for this. among other things, some recent judgments of the court of justice have indirectly enshrined this principle. i therefore believe, mr commissioner, that immigration must be dealt with very clearly, without any demagoguery, in an attempt to reconcile the needs of solidarity with those of safeguarding the security of the member states.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i shall speak for less than a minute. the commission has not yet adopted a decision on the application of the principle of equal treatment for men and women. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the legal framework for the protection of children is properly applied. they're children, they're scared, they're just a number. i saw them in lampedusa. we voted a joint motion in the house and senate to give them legal status, because they're just a number, and numbers get lost. they get into the criminal networks and you can't find them. a call for this: they must have a legal status.
in writing. one year after the lampedusa tragedy, the eu is still looking for a strategy to deal with a situation that we can no longer call an emergency but a routine one. the repressive approach of the stockholm and dublin agreements has caused 22 000 deaths, including 3000 in the mediterranean this year alone. europe's southern border for irregular migrants is the most dangerous in the world. immigration from the global south is a direct consequence of the processes of globalisation being carried out in the global north, of which we are part and for which we co-legislators are responsible. we need to increase access channels for asylum seekers, for family reunification, for job seekers. this emergency has created a monster which is the machine of hospitality where, alongside people who act in a spirit of solidarity, ruthless speculators emerge. we are here to denounce this criminal economy that thrives on this tragic situation. irregular immigration is not a national issue but one of the european union which must overcome its fears and rethink its approach to immigration policies. the union must do everything in its power to put an end to this tragedy.
written. the shipwreck off lampedusa has reminded the eu that the mediterranean is still at the centre of a critical situation which continues to cause countless deaths. it is no longer an emergency but has become a structural problem requiring a coherent and united response by the union and its member states. the european strategy on this issue needs a different approach. the lack of clear accountability creates too many shadow zones to the benefit of human traffickers. the common european asylum system is failing and collapsing. human rights are constantly violated in the centres for those fleeing war and persecution. focusing only on increased border controls does not deter migrants from risking their lives at sea and does not stop those who profit from such trafficking. that is why we have asked the commission and the council today for a clear answer to specific questions which highlight the various aspects of the migration problem. we want consistency and we ask that parliament should be able to carry out an inquiry to shed light on the shortcomings and to propose the necessary actions to adopt a common strategy to prevent the mediterranean from becoming a large cemetery.
author. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, once again the mediterranean is giving rise to a gloomy european scenario in terms of the protection of fundamental human rights. it is illusory to think that the excessive use of force by the authorities, the deaths of migrants, the summary expulsions and the violation of human rights are to be considered isolated cases or unfortunate accidents. for years, people have been dying in the mediterranean because thousands of people are willing to risk their lives to cross the border between europe and the mediterranean. it is not only the recent events in ceuta and melilla and the intentions of the spanish government that confirm this disturbing reality, but also the european court of human rights. it has recently pointed the finger at member states such as italy and greece for their failure to guarantee article 3 of the european convention for the protection of human rights, which prohibits inhuman or degrading treatment. we can only hope, therefore, that, especially in the mediterranean area, policies for border control and management of migration flows will be more effective and more respectful of human rights than those adopted so far, and the results of these policies are now before our eyes.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, i am italian, but i am speaking in the first part of the debate in spanish to state forcefully that the problem of immigration is european and not just national, and not just italian, and not just spanish. every form of violence is condemned: it is condemned when it is overthrown by the forces of order and it is condemned when it is overthrown also by the immigrants and the clandestines. the absence of an effective european strategy leads the states to individual solutions, as we shall see in the case of spain, which are necessary for the safeguarding of the territory, of internal security and public order, but which risk being harmful to rights. different interests are at stake. innanzitutto non si possono abbandonare i barconi to their fate. i'm not going to let you go. so it is necessary that the states also accept illegal immigrants and refugees, and they must also have very rapid timetables to understand whether they are illegal immigrants or refugees, precisely because the difference is important. we must not accept refugees, but we must repatriate illegal immigrants, respecting their rights. i would like to ask you to negotiate agreements with the countries of origin quickly and to speed up the procedures, as i said, for the status of refugees. the word of order is zero tolerance towards clandestinity, which leads to an even greater criminality. i would like to conclude very briefly by saying that i am very glad that almost all the members of parliament, apart from my colleague, have shared the pope's words, because we have understood that there are no more eurosceptics in the sense that the pope has said that there are no more europeans, so let us continue to go forward with solidarity. it has not said to leave europe or the euro.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today in this hemicycle the pope has reiterated very simple concepts of a disarming humanity, perhaps a little too much used for our use and consumption. addressing those women and men who need help and shelter, he spoke of the repetitiveness and uniqueness of every human life, of the dignity that can only exist when fundamental human rights are guaranteed. he said that the mediterranean must not become a graveyard. for many people it has already become so, many families will never mourn the people who have died. we won't forget. europe cannot be a fortress under siege by the peoples living on the other side of the mediterranean. the member states in that area, which are the most affected by the migratory flows, cannot be left alone. the money that the european union and individual member states are allocating to the flow management and reception system must be subject to stricter controls to prevent fraud, speculation and waste. the european union and its member states must continue to work together to ensure that immigration legislation is rigorous, effective and fully respectful of human rights.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the latest estimates from the international agency for research on cancer say that more than two and a half million european citizens fall ill with cancer every year. eight per cent of these citizens get sick from occupational exposure. exposure to asbestos fibres is still one of these occupational exposures. 56% of pleural mesothelioma cases and 41% of asbestosis cases occur in europe, whereas we have only 13% of the world's population. and if it is bad for exposure to asbestos fibres, it is certainly worse for the petrochemical sector, for steelworks, ironworks, cement factories. do we want to end this shit or not? i know that someone in the commission will say: 'these are matters for the member states'. but the member states are like italy and the eternit scandal, whereby thousands of citizens have not received justice in order to save just one politician. let's end this shit!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the subject we are dealing with is one which has been the subject of much economic, political and cultural discussion in my own country, italy. the deaths and the strange and very long trials which have been brought about by the asbestos case have been mentioned, and the scourge of this strong argument is rightly occupying the debate in my country and in europe. europe is a community with very advanced legislation on the subject of safety at work. unfortunately, this good legislation in individual countries often turns into formalism and bureaucracy. so how do we achieve that? first of all, i remember the great lesson of a jurist who lost his life for his ideas in italy, marco biagi, who taught us that arguments like this must be tackled by putting objectives and not rules first. so, what's our goal? first of all, training and information. but not just the workers: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal. i come to you with the knowledge of what good work means, how to choose it and, if you cannot choose it, how to defend it: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. but on the other hand, we need an approach which does not put the employer in a position to be considered a danger in this respect. we know that a mature and technologically advanced economy will promote secure employment. we ask the commission to work on this.
in writing. in the light of the ageing of the working population and the average lengthening of working life, it is essential to strengthen the current european strategy on health and safety at work. reducing the number of accidents and effectively preventing occupational diseases is a must, not only to enable european workers to work in better conditions, but also to promote the eu's competitiveness and productivity. in this context, a joint effort by the european institutions and the member states is needed to ensure better prevention of emerging risks, better implementation of existing legislation and more effective use of european funds to finance initiatives for safe, healthy and sustainable employment. we must not forget the important role of local and regional authorities in promoting appropriate standards and new skills in this sensitive area. i therefore hope that today's discussion will be part of a broader framework of fruitful collaboration with the european commission in defining the new framework for 2014-2020 in order to ensure an ever higher level of protection for workers.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the regulatory path that should have led to the neutralization of systemic risk since the crisis of 2009 is once again at risk of being ineffective and rewarding for speculation. these stress tests are proof of that. you, lord hill, say that the european banking system is now sound and credible. but do you really think it's solid? the risk weighted asset parameters used in fact penalise banks with higher exposure to credit-related banking products and reward banks with exposure to poor or dubious quality financial products such as derivatives. to give an example, the amount of derivatives that you read in the 2013 balance sheet of one of the largest european banks, deutsche bank, is 54.7 trillion euros, which is about 20 times the german gdp or 5.7 times the gdp of the whole of europe. now you tell me whether it makes sense to talk about the success of these stress tests and whether the banking system is solid and credible when there are banks in our country with this degree of systemic risk, when the shadow banking system has reached immense volumes and is just as systemic, when some of these market realities, by agreeing, can move such volumes of money that they can blackmail entire nations, threatening the democratic process of decision-making and self-determination of peoples.
mr president, commissioner, the comprehensive assessment was undoubtedly a fundamental step towards the implementation of banking union, and i share your view that it was a positive, serious and rigorous exercise, which strengthened the credibility of the european banking system, provided a positive incentive to strengthen the capitalisation of banks and also showed that european banks have a sufficient amount of capital to support a possible adverse scenario. but of course we cannot ignore some of the criticisms: the role of internal models, a budgetary assessment mechanism that somehow penalizes those banking systems that are more oriented towards credit to households and businesses. and so we need to work on improving our ability to measure risk and avoid providing the wrong incentives. in this respect, the econ committee of parliament will actively cooperate in further strengthening our capacity to assess and measure risk.
the rapporteur. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, parliament has been asked to give its opinion, in the consultation procedure, on the proposal for a revision of the regulation on the collection of statistical information submitted to the council by the ecb. this regulation, together with the regulation on the ecb's powers to impose sanctions, forms one of the pillars of the european central bank's statistical activity. the proposal is based on the entry into force of the single banking supervisory mechanism, which gives the ecb new powers and therefore requires an update of the mechanisms for collecting and processing statistical data. once adopted, the legislative act will allow the ecb to use confidential statistical information in a similar way to national central banks, which perform prudential supervisory functions. in addition, the ecb will be able to disseminate confidential statistical information to the national authorities responsible for financial supervision or the stability of the financial system, as well as to the european stability mechanism to the extent and in the level of detail necessary for the performance of their respective tasks. the position adopted by the econ committee on 11 november welcomes the ecb's proposals and supplements them with a number of suggestions aimed at extending the scope of the report. the amendments i have tabled as rapporteur are aimed at ensuring that data are transmitted more appropriately and that their confidentiality is better protected. in particular, one amendment introduces an obligation for authorities and bodies, including the esm, which receive confidential statistical information to take all necessary measures to ensure its protection. the econ committee then approved further amendments reinforcing some points not covered by the ecb recommendation. in particular, it strengthens the transparency of the ecb's statistical acts by requiring the ecb to make public decisions to exempt particular categories of entities from reporting requirements. in addition, it is called for the type of data collected to be extended to include raw data. an important reference to the principle of proportionality is then added in the definition and imposition of statistical reporting obligations. finally, as regards the sanctions part, a clear distinction is made between negligent or intentional behaviour in cases of infringement and the transmission of data by statistical officers, an aspect particularly relevant from the point of view of compliance with the principle of proportionality. the adoption of this revision is therefore of particular importance, as it is part of the broader framework of strengthening the ecb's supervisory tasks in the framework of the banking union project. i hope therefore that parliament will welcome the econ committee's recommendations for rapid adoption by the council and also that the broad consensus which has been reached on the report, for which i thank the shadow rapporteurs and the political groups for their cooperation, will provide the council with further incentive to take the econ committee's recommendations into account.
member of the commission. - mr president, the hour may be late but the debate has been an interesting one, and mr giegold brought us back to the technical nature of what we are here to discuss. it shows the significance of the implementation phase that we have entered into – into this area of financial services – and it underlines the old saying about the devil always being in the detail. as i said at the beginning, the commission has already adopted its opinion on the statistics recommendation, and it will adopt its opinion on the sanctions recommendation in the coming weeks. i have heard the comments made this evening by members – some of whom are still here – about the importance of data remaining confidential, about proportionality in reporting, about equal treatment for all and the need for good supervision, and i will obviously reflect on those. i am grateful to the ecb for having prepared the two recommendations, which i think provide a sound base for the european parliament, the european commission and the council. i think it is essential that we have strong and legally sound sanctioning regimes in place. as i indicated earlier, there are some technical legal issues about the legal base of one of the recommendations, so i will continue to work closely with the parliament, the ecb and the council to see that we can get a balanced outcome, which i believe is what members want. i would just like to end by thanking ms swinburne and mr gualtieri for their reports; they have given us all a lot to think about and they have pointed to some extremely helpful ways forward.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i do not think i need to use all two minutes, because i think there is a broad consensus on the report on the collection of statistics and a good feeling with the european commission. so i think we shall be faced with a broadly consensual approval tomorrow and i naturally reiterate my hope that the council will take account of our recommendations and those of the commission. i note, however, some political and legal problems with the other report and i naturally regard the commissioner's statements concerning the doubts about the legal basis and the consistency with the ssm regulation as very relevant and i therefore hope that these criticisms and these certainly very important elements will of course be taken into account, also in the context of tomorrow's vote on the swinburne report.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budgetary discipline is maintained. you, president juncker, have chosen parliament and we thank you for presenting an investment plan: it's a sign that the air has changed. i say to businesses, to citizens, to investors, to commentators: beyond the technicalities, notice the change of phase. five years ago, it was a title, today it's another title: investment, growth, jobs. you did this in advance of your commitment. - i know. we, the socialist and democratic group, on the other hand, had bound our support for you and your commission to this commitment. and i want to say this without rhetoric, but with pride: this breakthrough that begins today is the result of our political struggle. there's a lot of things about this plan that convince us. first of all, the method: the time for governmental agreements behind closed doors is over. parliament will be fully involved in this. it's a point of no return. we're also convinced that you want to create an investment vehicle. this is what we've been asking for for months. the eib's proactive role is important. we are convinced by the commitment to support risky investments, and this requires a public financial base. we are not interested in the opinions of the rating agencies, we are interested in the lives of citizens and we will assess the value of the investments promoted on the basis of the jobs created. we wrote it in our plan proposal, our suggestions to juncker: we want investments that matter, not easy investments. president, i sincerely believe that you have taken the right path today, but there is still much to be done. we need clear priorities, citizens need to know where their money is going, and our priority is the energy transition. climate change threatens the survival of our societies and we cannot claim to have a vested interest in facing such a challenge. we must act and lay the foundations for truly sustainable development. this is our mission, the mission of european civilization: not just be cassandra, the prophetess of doom, but lead the change. but i also want to say that you don't waste a second. a task force has identified priority investments, so let's unlock the resources for these investments now. we would have liked more public resources, more basic capital. however, the 20 billion initial capital is a good starting point. we must involve and encourage the member states to contribute to this plan and it is important that you have said clearly that the contributions of the member states are not calculated under the pact in relation to the debt and in relation to the deficit. this is a point of the utmost importance. that is the budgetary flexibility we need. it is a historic break, because it breaks the taboo of the rigidity of the pact. we do not want to change the rules, mr weber, but we do want to make them flexible, because the task of politics is to apply the rules intelligently, otherwise we could send accountants instead. we were elected as politicians, not accountants. we look forward to your communication on flexibility. we cannot continue to talk about flexibility in half-hearted terms, we must make it clear once and for all and we have very clear ideas. we also want certain public investments in support of european projects to be excluded from the stability pact. dear president, some say this is your last chance. i don't know if this is your last chance, but i know that you have to take a risk and dare rather than regret that you didn't take the opportunity that presented itself. we shall support this plan, we shall enrich it with our proposals and, if it is successful, we shall ask you, as you have already announced, to extend it for another three years. today is the beginning, not the end of the process. moderation in the pursuit of justice and fairness is never a virtue. for the child of thessaloniki or madrid to attend a quality school, for lisbon's businesses to compete in the world, for our hospitals to be at the forefront, we do not need moderation, we need a leap of quality, we need courage and vision.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, under-secretary, in lima we will be faced with a major political challenge, namely to convince all the parties involved of the need to invest in an ambitious climate policy in order to safeguard the environment and at the same time create jobs by encouraging the development of sustainable technologies. the overall objective we are pursuing is to strengthen the commitment of the entire international community to sustainable development, because i believe that this is the real element through which we can build sustainable growth. considerable progress has been made towards the european union's objectives on greenhouse gas emission reduction, renewable energy and energy efficiency, and the same needs to be done at international level. in this sense, the recent plan announced by the us and china is an important step in the right direction, but it remains only a beginning towards achieving much more ambitious goals. as pope francis reminded us yesterday, in his speech, we have a duty, if not an obligation, to protect the planet for future generations, and as europe we intend to play a key role in the next negotiations to try to reach a truly ambitious agreement in paris in 2015. i would also like to stress the importance of funding in this area, and i would remind you of the commitment made by the european union and its member states to progressively increase the mobilisation of climate finance, which is essential for investing in research and sustainable development. in conclusion, i would ask - as the commissioner announced in his speech - but i would also ask the council presidency to ensure that during the negotiations in lima the european parliament delegation is able to participate daily in the updating of the negotiations so that it can contribute with its work there to achieving even more ambitious objectives.
i would remind members that there is no blue card today because of the 2014 sakharov prize awarding ceremony at 12 noon.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, from the first cop in berlin to kyoto and today, 20 years of exhausting climate negotiations have been going on. but together, the european union, china and the united states are responsible for 50% of global emissions. yet, only today, the american and chinese presidents declared their intention to stop the growth of emissions by 2030. who knows when they will decide to declare their intention to reduce emissions. but we in the european union are not doing any better. we insist on drawing out of the cylinder new percentages: 40% of emissions, 27% of renewables, 30% of energy efficiency, and so on. but we continue to extract oil and burn coal all over the country. we have to understand that to really fight climate change, it only takes 100 percent change of mindset.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are all aware, i think, that we must reach a binding global agreement, as mrs grossetête has said, because otherwise the climate will not benefit, we will only have costs. it has already been mentioned that we produce about 10% of the co2 today, but not of the planet, because 10% of the co2 is produced by human activity, which we know is already a very small part of the natural emission of co2 on the planet. so even if europe were to achieve zero or close to zero co2 emissions, as under-secretary gozi dreams, we would not achieve any environmental benefits, because we would only have a relocation of our production to be produced elsewhere, emitting even more than they emit by producing in europe. so we must be aware that we are going to have very, very difficult negotiations, as mr florenz has reminded us, because we applaud what the united states and china are doing, but they are very small targets compared to the targets we have set ourselves. we have talked this morning about growth, jobs and investment, we have a target of reindustrialising 20% of europe by 2020, but the cost paid by our traditional industries is a high cost and we will continue like this: the commission has already taken a number of decisions on the basis of the information available. let us talk about steel, we have seen the terni issue these days. well, we can only bear these costs within a binding global agreement, so that there is a level playing field for all.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, next week will mark the beginning of the crucial stage in the run-up to cop 21 in paris, which is the subject of similar expectations as those which were held in 2009 on the eve of cop 15 in copenhagen. the european union presented a unilateral and binding legislative package at that meeting, hoping that this would encourage other countries to make concrete commitments. nevertheless, the results were very disappointing. the european union today has no new models of reference to present to the international community, but that does not mean that something more and more concrete cannot be done. we believe, for example, that binding targets could be agreed for energy saving and energy efficiency, two areas which allow the best optimisation of investment. the energy saved is the energy that costs less. the investments pay off in three to four years and with the involvement of the energy service companies a virtuous mechanism could be triggered. in this case, finance intervenes before the investment and is reimbursed only if the reduction in consumption is effective, unlike the bankrupt ets market where the only benefits are derived by financial speculators. what steps does the commission intend to take to fill this obvious and unjustified regulatory gap?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, for too long we have underestimated the seriousness of climate change. what's still to happen to open your eyes? we see floods, droughts, deaths. we count the hundreds of millions of damages. of course, it is not just europe. of course, there is a problem with industrial production. but if europe stops, if europe is less ambitious, it will be more difficult to build a broad agreement first in lima and then in paris. so, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot stop now, we cannot go backwards now. the environment committee voted a resolution by a very large majority, broad and precise. it is important that this resolution be adopted by this parliament. there are specific and concrete commitments and it also tackles the issue of funding by committing the money we make from the carbon market.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the objective of lima is a global agreement to reduce emissions of pollutants and to prevent dangerous interference by these changes. there is no longer any doubt about the disastrous effects of climate change and europe must be present at this meeting without hesitation and as a leading actor. it is no longer the time to think, as i have heard from many, of environmental policies as a brake on development: i'm actually a driver. but we need to rethink the growth model we have pursued so far, a new deal that has great potential, including for creating new jobs in research, innovation, renewable sources, energy efficiency, air quality and adaptation to climate change. i would remind you that the floods which have hit europe in recent years are already an effect of these changes and call for action to prevent them, by reducing emissions and global warming on the one hand and investing in risk reduction works and actions on the other, creating new skilled jobs to save resources.
because of the need to meet the deadlines for the sakharov prize and all the ceremonies that will follow the award, i cannot give the "catch the eye". under rule 162 (12) of the rules of procedure, members who were not able to speak, and i apologize for that, may submit a written statement of not more than 200 words, which will be attached to the full report of the debate.
i have received a motion for a resolution pursuant to rule 123 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place today, wednesday 26 november 2014, at 12.30. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. the european parliament is preparing to send an authoritative and ambitious message ahead of the un conference in lima. this is no longer the time for compromise agreements: the new framework we will be preparing in lima and which will emerge at cop21 in paris in 2015 must aim at ambitious targets, up to a 50% reduction in emissions by 2050. our delegation in lima will take a position which will of course be very attentive to the impact that reducing emissions will have on the competitiveness of the european manufacturing, industrial and chemical sectors. in this context, it is crucial to reach a common agreement covering all the productive areas of the world, including the developing countries. the contribution europe can make to these countries in terms of technology transfer and reduction capacity building will then be decisive, including through an increase in the united nations green climate fund: the latter is the best investment that european countries can make to promote the energy transition and a fairer competitive position at global level.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the ecb fully assumed its single supervisory tasks on 4 november 2014. i therefore agree with the rapporteur that the regulation under discussion today needs to be amended, as these amendments are in line with the aim of taking account of the new tasks of prudential supervision for credit institutions. i am convinced that in a centralised system the ecb can use confidential statistical information for the performance of its supervisory tasks in the same way as central banks, ensuring that the use is directly targeted to the activities to be carried out. i am of the opinion that authorizing the transmission of confidential statistical information by the european system of central banks to the authorities or bodies of the member states means authorizing a significant flow of information which, if collected in the wrong hands, can create destabilization of information flows and markets. i therefore agree with the rapporteur that the receiving authorities should take all the necessary regulatory, administrative, technical and operational measures to ensure the physical and logical protection of the confidential statistical information in question.
in writing. - in view of the disastrous results of the ecb's monetary policy, although this measure is purely technical in nature, i have chosen to abstain.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that a collection of statistical data by the european central bank can only be positive for the european economy.
in writing. i abstained. the measure itself does not raise any particular problems, but it is instrumental in the exercise of functions which would increase the powers of an institute which is not a solution but part of the problem to be solved.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because i agree with making the supervision of the financial system more effective. this can only be achieved by strengthening coordination between national supervisory authorities and at the same time improving supervision at european level. this will allow risks and issues with cross-border implications to be managed under the ultimate guidance of the ecb. i believe that the two levels of supervision are complementary and essential to safeguarding financial stability in europe.
in writing. as the european central bank's powers increase, it should be able to rely on more complex and precise indicators to guide its decisions. this is what the draft regulation is asking for in the first place and is therefore broadly acceptable. that is why i voted in favour of its approval.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which aims to strengthen the ecb's functions in the prudential supervision of credit institutions through the use of confidential statistical information. i agree with the idea of allowing the transmission of confidential statistical information by the european system of central banks to national authorities or bodies, as well as regulatory measures to protect the information. this is confidential information which is important to protect in order to safeguard the market and the whole institutional set-up. the ecb has recently taken over the single supervisory functions and these changes will strengthen its role for the benefit of the whole european system.
in writing. i am voting against this resolution as regards certain amendments to be made to the regulations as a result of new powers conferred on the ecb, including by virtue of the entry into force of the single supervisory mechanism in november 2014. this is a review of the methodologies for collecting statistical information which should allow for a better effectiveness of the entire supervisory mechanism. my vote against is also due to my strongly critical view of the work and management of the ecb.
in writing. i considered that, given the new supervisory tasks conferred on the ecb, i should vote in favour of this report. this will enable the ecb to use confidential statistical information for the fulfilment of its new supervisory tasks under the ssm regulation. at the same time, this power will be counterbalanced in order to ensure the physical and logical protection of the confidential statistical information in question.
in writing. the purpose of this measure is to adapt the rules on the collection of statistical data by the ecb. the measure is designed to enable us to carry out functions which we do not entirely welcome because of the results which the exercise of these powers by the ecb is producing in europe. that is why i will not support the report and will abstain.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of the report by mr roberto gualteri on the need to amend regulation (ec) no 2533/98 in order to formalise its new supervisory tasks. i also believe that the european central bank should be able to use statistical information to fulfil its supervisory powers.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the collection of statistical information by the european central bank as this text is parliament's response to the european central bank's recommendations to amend the regulation to take account of new supervisory tasks of the ecb in relation to policies concerning prudential supervision (ssm regulation - single supervisory mechanism). the report focuses mainly on the use and transmission of confidential statistical information for the performance of the new supervisory tasks. the ecb will have to respect the principle of proportionality in defining and enforcing statistical reporting requirements.
in writing. - i share mr gualtieri's view that the european central bank's recommendation that regulation (ec) no 2533/98 be amended to formalise its new supervisory tasks is welcome. i particularly agree that the ecb should be able to use confidential statistical information to fulfil its new supervisory powers. in the light of the foregoing considerations, i have felt it necessary to express my agreement with the report.
in writing. the ecb's proposed amendments aim to strengthen the prudential supervision functions of credit institutions through the use of confidential statistical information. such confidential information shall be transmitted by the escb to the bodies competent for the performance of their tasks. i think it is important to counterbalance the transmission of confidential information by introducing conditions which impose on the receiving authorities regulatory measures in favour of the physical and logical protection of statistical information. i therefore wish to vote in favour.
in writing. i voted in favour of the draft council regulation amending the regulation on the collection of statistical information by the european central bank, as it takes account of the new supervisory tasks conferred on the ecb (prudential supervision of credit institutions). as can be seen, the authorities in this field are given a significant power to authorize the transmission of confidential information but this is counterbalanced by the condition that the receiving authorities adopt all those regulatory, administrative and technical measures which guarantee the protection in all aspects of the confidential statistical information of the specific case.
in writing. - i have decided to abstain because this measure is a function of the exercise of the sanctioning and supervisory power conferred on the ecb, and i have some doubts about this in view of the results it has achieved so far.
in writing. i voted against this measure because the text tends to further restrict the scope of action of the member states' authorities. although national central banks have been guilty of serious supervisory failures in the past, i am convinced that this ecb, whose leaders define the euro as an irreversible process, is not the one who can reassure citizens and businesses.
in writing. i voted against this text because i believe that the ecb cannot validly impose sanctions without increased political responsibility on the part of the executive board.
in writing. i voted against the measure. i do not trust the ecb, which is the engine of the euro building process which has brought profit to the banks and misery to the citizens. we need more responsible action.
in writing. - the ecb's powers have been increased exponentially, in line with the need to unify supervision of european banks. these are fundamental steps towards building union banking. as a result, there is a need for better regulation and supervision of the financial sector in the eu. i therefore voted in favour of the amendments to regulation (ec) no 2532/98 on the power of the european central bank to impose sanctions because i believe, and i share the reasons put forward, that for regulation to be fully effective, it must be accompanied by strict supervision and enforcement. the ecb's powers should be strengthened and the coordination between national supervisory authorities should be improved.
in writing. the entry into force of the single supervisory mechanism gives new powers to the european central bank. in this institutional framework, it would be very dangerous not to give the ecb the power to impose sanctions. it was therefore automatic for me to vote in favour of this draft regulation, with the hope that this power will never be used so that european financial institutions will soon be able to do all their work as lungs for the economy and always behave in accordance with the laws in force.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report. the financial crisis has highlighted the need for better regulation and supervision of the financial sector in the eu. moreover, the subsequent euro area crisis has brought to light a new dimension by highlighting the potentially vicious circle of contagion risk between banks and governments. the amendment of regulation (ec) no 2532/98 should be a further step towards the application of a more coherent and integrated regulatory framework and that is why i am voting in favour of its application. i believe that regulation is fully effective, and that it must be accompanied by strict supervision and enforcement, by improving coordination between national supervisory authorities on the one hand and by strengthening supervision at eu level to manage risks and issues with cross-border implications, under the ultimate guidance of the ecb, on the other.
in writing. i vote against this resolution as regards a specific procedure relating to monetary policy and the european system of central banks. following the extension of the ecb's specific powers in the field of the prudential supervision of credit institutions, some amendments to the regulation allowing the ecb to impose sanctions have been proposed. the ecb therefore submitted a recommendation to the council to propose certain amendments, in particular on the definition of the penalty for late payment and on new general principles and scope. the ecb's role in the single supervisory mechanism, which became fully operational in november 2014, is therefore to impose sanctions on credit institutions that do not comply with certain rules. i cannot support a report which grants even more powers to the ecb without first defining some of the issues which i regard as priorities regarding the role of the ecb.
in writing. as the proposed amendments are intended to adapt the current regulation to the new supervisory tasks conferred on the ecb in the meantime and in view of the current european economic policy, i shall vote against the report.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of the key swinburne report because i believe that strengthening the ecb's powers in financial supervision will help to ensure greater protection for citizens. the crisis in the euro area has brought to light the risk of contagion between banks and states, and therefore better governance and better integration of economic and monetary union will ensure the survival of the single currency.
in writing. i voted in favour of the swinburne report in line with the position of the epp. the regulation on the european central bank's power to impose sanctions needs to be amended to align it with the new role of the ecb following the extension of the powers relating to the ssm (single supervisory mechanism). the text provides for amendments to the scope of the regulation, procedural rules, publication of penalties and limits on penalties. the compromise adopted by the adoption of the text also allows the ecb to delay the publication of sanctions until all legal remedies have been exhausted. in practice, the sanction against a 'failing bank' is only published when it is procedurally definitive, obviously to avoid negatively affecting the markets.
in writing. - the eurozone crisis has brought with it the risk of contagion between banks and states, and with it the awareness that only better governance and greater integration of economic and monetary union would guarantee the survival of the single currency. the strengthening of the ecb's powers in financial supervision will help to ensure greater protection for citizens. it is clear that such a task cannot be done without the power to impose sanctions. that is why i voted in favour of the report signed by mr swinburne, which recognises the role of the supervisory authorities in relation to banks which do not comply with the rules laid down.
in writing. the economic crisis has highlighted the need for better economic and monetary governance, safeguarding the economic and financial stability of the union through an integrated supervisory system. the lack of regulatory credibility was one of the main causes of the economic crisis. i believe that uniform rules and better coordination can strengthen the supervision of the financial sector and i would therefore vote in favour of this.
in writing. following the financial crisis of recent years, it is important that a decision has been taken to regulate the financial sector in the eu more comprehensively and that there has been a need for a more thorough and integrated approach. i therefore think it is right that new rules have been adopted to ensure that markets and products are subject to closer supervision with a single functioning financial market and with better supervision at union level, thanks to coordination between national supervisory authorities and, at the same time, increasing eu supervision under the ecb's last wing. i agree with the provisions of the regulation which extend the scope of action of the european central bank and, consequently, the power given to the ecb to impose sanctions whenever there is an improvement in the transparency of its decision-making procedures. i also agree with the procedure for deciding to impose penalties for infringement. of course, in order to ensure that financial markets and all users of the sector have confidence in a supervisory body, the ecb must have the direct and unequivocal authority to impose sanctions on banks that do not comply with the rules.
in writing. - i decided to vote against because the text tends to reduce the scope for action by the authorities of the member states and, although we are aware that in the past the national central banks have been guilty of serious failures in terms of supervision, we are also not convinced that this ecb, whose leaders define the euro as an irreversible process, is the entity that can reassure citizens and businesses.
in writing. - the results of the recently published stress tests showed that the overall assessment procedure of the balance sheets of the major european credit institutions has in fact favoured the systemic banks with the highest exposure to derivatives. the controversial methodology used to identify weaknesses in banks' balance sheets has in fact undermined the ecb's own credibility and adequacy in carrying out its supervisory function. i therefore voted against this report which gives the ecb the power to impose sanctions, which further strengthens the new supervisory powers which the ecb assumed on 1 november. the european council in brussels on 14 and 15 december called on the commission to take all necessary steps to ensure that the european union's financial institutions are properly informed of the risks of fraud and corruption. on the contrary, before consolidating a supervisory system that has proved inadequate, it is necessary to solve the problems at their source by reviewing the entire architecture of the banking union. we cannot continue to give new powers to an institution which not only does not offer sufficient guarantees of transparency and independence, but which has clearly shown that it has no interest in protecting financial stability and the real economy, without affecting the most speculative and damaging banking activities.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the international conference on climate change which will take place in lima next week seems to be coming under the best of auspices. recent signs of openness to an agreement and the willingness of the us and chinese governments to play a more significant role in the global effort to tackle climate change are encouraging. the scale and severity of the threats posed by climate change can no longer postpone the need to activate, at global level, concrete measures to limit warming and start the transition to a low-carbon economy. i hope, therefore, that the lima conference will indeed create the conditions for reaching a legally binding international agreement in paris in 2015. parliament has taken a clear and ambitious position at the conference, which i share and which is why i voted in favour.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the progress on climate at the g20 summit in brisbane and the new sino-american commitments on reducing emissions of pollutants are leading to optimism in the run-up to the climate conference in lima in december. the negotiations at the next conference must put the planet on track to reach an ambitious global agreement in paris in 2015 and keep global warming within 2 degrees. the transition to a low-carbon economy will create jobs and develop the technologies and products needed. as regards the role of the european union, i think that the 2030 targets on renewable energy and energy efficiency should be a starting point. the real target must be a real blue economy. more ambitious targets are needed, and the process of decarbonising the economy can be accelerated by implementing a series of measures at global level, including the definition of a programme for the gradual replacement of high-carbon fuels and technology, the introduction of a global carbon tax, the overcoming of tariff barriers to the spread of low-emission technologies, the protection of intellectual property in favour of low-emission technology producers, the introduction of financial and technological cooperation measures to support emerging economies to build the infrastructure needed to change the energy system. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. i strongly support the motion for a resolution on cop 20 in lima. climate change and its dramatic consequences require ambitious strategies: the lima conference will be held in order to agree a draft negotiating text for the new agreement to be reached in paris in 2015. the advances made by china and the united states in recent weeks are an important signal: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. the resolution also calls for the eu to take action to combat climate change and to ensure that the world's population is not left behind. investing is the key word: infrastructure and innovation are key to reducing co2 emissions and at the same time can increase the competitiveness of our economy. i consider it important to commit to increasing economic resources for climate mitigation and adaptation. i also hope that the funds in the juncker plan will be directed towards sustainable economic growth.
in writing. i voted for this resolution because it is clear that the eu needs to have a very advanced and modern policy in terms of environmental protection. we must position ourselves so that european standards are world standards (because they are the most advanced) and, in the same way, we must ensure that our own standards evolve towards even more environmental protection and energy efficiency.
in writing. i voted against: this is the usual annual resolution on the annual conference of the parties (cop) to the unfccc, the usual unilateral climate policy that is suicidal for business and ineffective against pollution.
in writing. climate change is one of the greatest challenges facing all of humanity. when i look at these problems, i see how important it is that there is more coordination between the member states and how useful the european union is in these cases. going to lima to negotiate with greater bargaining power is crucial to delivering a cleaner planet to future generations, while taking into account the costs of adaptation and the need for a gradual approach. i voted in favour of this resolution with these considerations in mind.
in writing. i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the united nations climate change conference to be held in lima from 1 to 12 december 2014. the protection of the environment and respect for the kyoto protocol and the agreements signed must be the future cornerstones of european development, with the aim of reconciling industrial interests and respect for the environment. the union's climate policy needs to be reinforced and an agreement quickly reached on ambitious and binding targets for emissions reductions, energy efficiency and the use of renewable energy sources by 2030, as these targets would help to boost international climate discussions and be in line with the eu's commitment to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions by 2050. the eu should commit to reducing climate warming and help cut global carbon emissions by 40 to 70% by 2050 this requires a great deal of effort in all regions of the world and the eu certainly cannot stand by and watch.
in writing. according to the scientific evidence presented in the 2014 reports of the ipcc working groups for the fifth assessment report, the warming of the climate system is unequivocal. the widespread and far-reaching impacts of climate change are already clearly observable in natural and human systems across all continents and oceans. continued greenhouse gas emissions will cause further warming and changes to the soil, atmosphere and oceans in all regions of the globe. all countries, regardless of their wealth, will be affected by the impact of climate change. global greenhouse gas emissions in the decade 2000-2010 were the highest in the entire history of mankind. without strong global mitigation action to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, the global average temperature increase is likely to reach 5°c by the end of the century and, according to the ipcc's conclusions, some risks from climate change are significant. for the reasons stated above and in order to take concrete steps quickly to phase out all environmentally harmful subsidies by 2020, i could only vote in favour of this resolution.
in writing. the un climate change conference opening in lima on 1 december will be a litmus test of the political will to reach an ambitious and fair global agreement on climate change. the commitments to reduce emissions made by china, the united states and the european union are promising. one of the highlights of the conference will be deforestation, which according to 2013 figures reached 3.3 billion tonnes. deforestation is a very important driver of climate change, and that's why it needs to be tackled on a global scale, through the involvement of institutions and civil society. for these reasons i have decided to support this motion for a resolution.
in writing. i am voting against because there is no such strategy for the planet and it is completely counterproductive for the eu.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of this document because climate change is undoubtedly a serious threat to society as a whole, to biodiversity, to agriculture and to the planet as a whole. i believe that the european union must act to counter the negative effects and the document focuses on the need for the eu to take a leading role in the fight against the global climate crisis. the european parliament delegation which i have the honour of leading to lima is prepared to make every effort to ensure that this is the case.
in writing. the scale and severity of the threats posed by climate change can no longer postpone the need to take concrete action to eliminate the serious consequences of climate change. all governments worldwide have a responsibility, especially to future generations, to implement appropriate climate measures. the lima stage is a key step in the definition of financial commitments and cooperation in the run-up to the paris conference, which will have to define the main climate objectives post 2020, and i have therefore decided to vote in favour.
in writing. - climate change is a serious threat to global society, to biodiversity, and to the entire planet. it is therefore necessary for all countries, including the european union, to mobilise in the name of the common objective of reducing its negative effects. the document highlights the need for the european commission to take a leading role in the fight against the global climate crisis. that is why i have decided to support it with my vote in favour.
in writing. - we want to express once again our grave concern about the serious consequences of climate change. we call on the commission to take a leading role in tackling the global climate crisis, placing it at the heart of its next strategic priorities. all governments worldwide have a collective responsibility, including to future generations, to take appropriate climate action. we therefore want to stress how important it is that the european union, as one of the main actors at the lima conference, speaks 'with one voice' in seeking progress towards an international agreement and in remaining united in this regard.
in writing. climate change poses a potentially irreversible threat to humans and the environment. reducing greenhouse gas emissions is one of the priority objectives to ensure that global warming is kept to 2 degrees celsius. the lima stage is a key step in the definition of financial commitments and cooperation in the run-up to the paris conference, which will have to define the post-2020 climate objectives, and i would therefore like to express my vote in favour.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on the un conference in lima because the european union, especially through the commitment and guarantee of a parliament delegation, must contribute to maintaining the international commitment to tackle global warming, which threatens the planet, the health and economic development of society as a whole, especially the poorest sections. this is due to greenhouse gas emissions, for which the entire international community is responsible and for which the implementation of policies more "bold" than those already in place is necessary to reduce. the 20% reduction target by 2020 is not ambitious enough. this and other objectives must be delayed in the light of the new opportunities offered by science. climate protection needs to be financed and an eco-sustainable economy needs to be developed, focusing on innovation and competitiveness in order to increase energy independence and security and lower the cost of energy. factors that, taken together, lead to an increase in gdp, stimulating growth and creating jobs. in this context, europe must adopt a unified environmental policy vis-à-vis international bodies. it is not just about safeguarding the planet by improving our quality of life, but about taking a collective responsibility towards future generations.
in writing. i voted in a strong and convinced way in favour of the resolution on the eu position in view of cop 20 on climate change because i believe it is an absolute priority of parliament and the other institutions to make a single, strong and clear voice heard by all our partner countries at a time when very serious atmospheric phenomena constituted by climate change threaten us in an increasingly persistent way. i believe that the international response is still too weak, as evidenced by the limited progress achieved in terms of global warming and the still excessive co2 emissions. that is why i think we need to find a global agreement to eliminate the risk of carbon leakage. i understand that we are in a period of budgetary constraints, but i believe that in this area we must try to increase climate finance, also inviting third countries to contribute in proportion to their means. finally, i welcome the outcome of the last european council, where all member states will be required to reduce their emissions in accordance with their capabilities and possibilities. this is an excellent achievement and an example for others to follow.
in writing. - i decided to vote against because it is the usual annual resolution on the conference of the parties (cop) of the unfccc which discusses a suicidal unilateral climate policy. if it were for the european parliament's 'ambition', the process of relocation would be even faster.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, palestine - why must this state be born? because it is an act owed to the palestinian people, but it is also in the israeli interest; above all, it is an ethical, historical and political necessity, a master wall in the house of peace. but when we are discussing recognition in this house and someone subordinates it to peace, we must remind ourselves that these are two very different situations. the recognition of a state is a matter for the international community. the peace process between israel and palestine, on the other hand, is about their people. we must not confuse. that is why the early conclusion of peace would be useful, but it cannot be a necessary condition. the negotiations must be conducted on a level playing field, both legally and politically. but to recognize a state implies not only giving it rights but also giving it specific duties, because a real state must have a legitimate and democratic government, guaranteeing the security of its territory and capable of disarming sectarian and extremist organizations. the palestinian people cannot do this alone. he needs our presence and our expertise, not just our money. we're their neighbors. if we do not take on these concrete responsibilities, we will deceive the palestinians, we will deceive the israelis and ultimately we will be lying to ourselves. after 66 years, we cannot degrade this occasion to a paltry attempt to clear our conscience. the future palestinian state has two paths ahead of it, the two opposite extremes of the islamic world today: on the one hand, the blatantly fanatical absolutism of the self-styled and unfortunately also seductive, for many, islamic state; on the other hand, there is the wonderful example of the republic of tunisia, which has made a brilliant start on the arduous road to full democracy. as a member of our delegation to your parliamentary and presidential elections, i can see this with my own eyes. that is why i hope that this parliament will pay tribute to the great effort and the great enthusiasm of the tunisian people. these are the two roads that are coming up on the horizon. the status quo is impossible today. which of these models prevails in palestinian society will also depend on our courage today, on our consistency in the years to come.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. he was also the chairman of the committee on the rules of procedure, the verification of credentials and immunities. four boys torn from their lives by religious extremism that led both sides to stop talking to each other. there seems to be no room for a transformation of thought that would bring the two sides to recognize each other, to draw closer, the only prerequisite for a real path that leads to peace, to accepting the other as a neighbor - perhaps not the most sympathetic possible - without realizing the deep desire to destroy him. in this context, at this time, a proposal has come to us - suddenly, without debate - and we have suddenly had to discuss a motion for the recognition of the state of palestine. a motion which does not really help the peace process because we are not developing a real, high-level debate, we are not telling palestine and israel what are their mutual rights and mutual duties. but suddenly parliament found itself with this subject and the conference of group leaders did well to postpone the debate. and it would probably be appropriate to postpone it for a while longer, to arrive at the final vote on this motion when we are fully aware of the concrete results, of what recognition of a state means, which is not only the recognition of rights but also and above all the recognition of duties. then let the european parliament take all the time it needs. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. the experience as told by commissioner mogherini is a living one. make your own judgment and then we'll come back here and give our direction. we have no need to rush into what is likely to slow down the peace process.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner mogherini, i would like to thank you for your visit to the middle east at the beginning of your mandate. to start from there to try to resolve a conflict that is at the root of the countless problems we have in the region is crucial. however, as you know, the road is not easy and as we can imagine, the problem is not simply that of the recognition of the palestinian state - although the issue exists, if indeed it exists - but above all that of what we can do so that the peace negotiations, which are stalled today, can really proceed. there's not much time. i hope, as you say, that there will be a new awareness between the parties, but i fear that extremism in israel, as in palestine, may take over and close the door to dialogue once and for all. and so if the fundamental issue is the resumption of negotiations, then what can we do to achieve this, beyond diplomatic action? a lot, i think. we can and must act on all the instruments at our disposal, including economic, financial and commercial instruments. we are the first donor to the palestinian authority. the european market is by far the first market for israel and its exports. we should use these two levers to exert the necessary pressure and to force the negotiation and its successful conclusion.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, when i was a child the question of palestine had been around for a long time, and i had hoped it would be a short-lived issue. i am now a member of the european parliament and the issues concerning palestine and israel are still being discussed. but then we who talk so much, who give lectures all over the world, have not been able to solve this kind of problem and it makes me think really that then it is a little difficult to teach others when we are not able to bring home a result ourselves. for example, the agreement with palestine and israel cannot be unilateral, it has to be bilateral, it has to be directed between palestinians and israelis, because otherwise it would only end up that palestine is given a big role and at the same time hamas is rewarded, and from what i have seen hamas is just terrorist action, which very often reminds of the actions of the nazis. and then i wonder about the palestinians and arafat's money: how did arafat make all this money? who did you get this money from, where did you put it and why didn't you help your own people?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, why should we recognize the palestinian state? not to weaken and wound israel, but to restore to it a force doomed to perish if it is only military. no state can survive as a democracy if it occupies land that is not its own. i think that israel finally needs to give itself not only legal but legitimate borders, that the palestinians cannot be asked to submit to endless subjugation, to renounce their statehood. the same thing happened in europe. borders are overcome when they are no longer contested. israel owes its birth to the dark history of europe, and we are partly responsible for it. that is why it is important that this parliament should make the gesture: the european union is not a party to the peace process. if this gesture is not made, the israeli governments will feel a brief relief, they will fall back into new wars like the sleepwalking nationalisms that destroyed europe in the name of an ethnic group or a guilty sacred land.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i share the call made by my colleagues for a balanced position which would have the widest possible consensus in this parliament, but i believe that this position must clearly focus on the political issue of the recognition of the palestinian state. some israeli politicians, i think of hilik bar of the labour party, think that israel should even take this action first, and i think they are right, for its future. at the same time, however, i think it is essential that our document, once adopted, be seen as a stronger legitimation for the palestinian state to reopen negotiations with israel. a position of parliament cannot be interpreted as a recognition that the palestinians are not in a position to negotiate with israel and vice versa. the negotiations are the only way to reach a final solution to the conflict, with the necessary and fundamental intervention of the european union, which has fortunately begun to show its strength and influence again, also thanks to federica mogherini in these first weeks.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on 29 november the united nations is celebrating the world day of solidarity with the palestinian people. after more than 60 years of waiting, the issue of palestinian recognition has finally become a topical one for all european chancelleries. following sweden, spain, the united kingdom and ireland, france, denmark and belgium are also officially recognising palestine as an autonomous state and subject to international law. the principle of 'two states, two peoples' and the principle of mutual recognition must be affirmed as the conditions for the palestinian and israeli peoples to live in peace, security and democracy. europe must help to find a solution that meets the economic and humanitarian security needs of israelis and palestinians, and work towards the resumption of the negotiating phase. the recognition of the palestinian state can make a decisive contribution to peace in the middle east. this is the measure of the european union's willingness to become a major and decisive player on the international political scene. in the meantime, good work and congratulations to high representative mogherini on what she is doing.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, a newborn baby has bled to death a few hours after being born and abandoned by her mother in a dumpster. it happened in palermo, europe, just over 48 hours ago. this is yet another case of inhuman violence against a child and comes just days after the 25th anniversary of the un convention on the rights of the child. it is impossible to count the cases of child labour exploitation, physical violence and the increasing sexual abuse, as dr mukwege said in his beautiful speech this morning. and this violence leaves the children who suffer enormous scars, which besides aesthetically scratching the body irreversibly mark the soul. i wonder, mr president, and i wanted to ask the high representative, who has left, what we can do beyond conferences, resolutions and treaties. perhaps, since the 'god of the market' is the undeniable dogma of this europe, we could try to build an economic system based on ethics before profit, by starting to sanction, hinder and boycott those multinationals which are complicit in the abuse of children, and there are many, not to say almost all, of those which operate on our market.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the convention on the rights of the child is the human rights treaty that has been ratified by the largest number of countries in history, but despite the comprehensive set of instruments, standards and commitments on children's rights and the first steps towards achieving the agreed objectives, for millions of children around the world, the daily reality is still in stark contrast to these commitments and objectives. children still face serious threats to their survival, lack of opportunities for quality education and adequate health and social care. they are victims of the worst forms of child labour, sexual exploitation and abuse, disease, armed conflict and various forms of violence. they are forced into early marriages and have to endure harmful traditional practices. children belonging to vulnerable groups and children in particularly difficult situations face particular risks and are exposed to discrimination, marginalisation and exclusion, and girls face specific risks and therefore require particular attention. as far as the european union is concerned, therefore, human rights guidelines are needed to build a strong regional framework for the european union's work in promoting and protecting human rights in europe's overall foreign policy, in the field of human rights and in particular the rights of children. and to achieve this we need first of all guidelines on the promotion and protection of the rights of the child, european union guidelines on children and armed conflict, we need to integrate the protection and promotion of the rights of children into all policies in the european union's external relations and in its programmes and activities. finally, it is essential that the european union's development policies and the european consensus on development consistently implement the rights of the child among the member states of the european union by reference to the main international human rights frameworks and the millennium development goals.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the adoption of the convention on the rights of the child, which is celebrating its 25th anniversary today, was a major cultural and legal advance on a global scale. but the problems of child protection are still many today both in europe and abroad. the european union must therefore make a strong effort to revive its commitment to this area, and the resolution proposed to this parliament goes in exactly this direction, touching on issues which the community and national institutions will have to deal with in the full exercise of their powers. there are many aspects i should like to mention, but for reasons of time i shall confine myself to a few which i consider particularly important. among these, the problem of unaccompanied migrant children. the resolution makes it clear that the duty to protect children takes precedence over any migration policy, thus making explicit a legal obligation already enshrined in primary eu law. but it is essential that this be clearly reaffirmed because that obligation is often violated or ignored. the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe has also recently reiterated the need to identify alternatives to the placement in detention facilities of the many immigrant children. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the matter. finally, judicial systems throughout the union need to be adapted to the special and delicate functions of juvenile justice, which affects over one million children in europe each year. in this connection, as rapporteur for the draft directive on procedural guarantees for minors under investigation or subject to criminal proceedings, i hope that the european parliament will soon be called upon to vote on a measure which can serve to build a shared model of fair trial for minors. a final consideration is the hope that europe as such, the european union, can sign the convention on the rights of the child.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today we are celebrating the 25th anniversary of the un convention on the rights of the child. it's a sad birthday, i'm afraid, but i'm not going to let you down. dr mukwege, in one of the most crude, truthful and moving speeches ever delivered in this house, shook our consciences, reminding us that even today in many countries the rape of children is a weapon of humiliation and subjugation. in uzbekistan and many other developing countries, millions of children are exploited to ensure that european multinationals make more profit. the list is very long and we have failed in europe too. go and see what has happened to education and social welfare in greece. go and see the unworthy price paid for austerity. the high representative's proposal is right, but without trade relations consistent with our principles. as long as we allow economic policies that are contrary to the rights of the child, the dreams of many children in europe and around the world will be endless nightmares.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the g20 summit in brisbane marks a turning point in the response to the economic crisis that is suffocating our continent. growth, development and employment have become not the goal of a single country but a common strategy for all the major countries. this strategy has been put into practice in europe today with the investment plan presented by president juncker, a plan which, despite its limitations, represents a turning point in the economic policies of the european union, abandoning the old path of austerity. we need a europe that is on the offensive on the international scene, a europe that is taking up its leadership role in the production of goods and that is not afraid to play a leading role in economic and trade relations once again. we must have the courage to transform a europe which is a little tired, aged, compressed, which tends to feel less of a protagonist, as the pope described it well yesterday in this house, into a europe which is running again and which still represents an opportunity for future generations.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the brisbane summit discussed global growth, supply and demand, gdp, monetary authority and financial stability, structural reforms: i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. however, when i read the final communiqué, i was particularly struck by the lack of reference to those economic and productive sectors which, in their day-to-day activities, define the economy. i am referring to the micro, small and mediumsized enterprises which, especially in europe, are the backbone of the economic system and which are struggling every day to cope with the worst economic downturn since the second world war. there is no mention of the fight against tax havens. i believe that the g20 should have dealt with these issues as well and should have put forward concrete and comprehensive proposals on these issues. the g20's anti-corruption action plan for 2015 and 2016 which i hope will lead to improvements in transparency and efficiency in both the private and public sectors, as well as the reference to actions to be taken to mitigate the effects of climate change and to promote youth employment, which has reached unacceptable levels, is a good thing.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in the digital world our thoughts and our very identity are bits that travel on the net. so if all men are equal, then the bits must be equal. this is the principle that is called net neutrality. and i am glad, commissioner ansip, to hear that you will support this principle. but fortunately, parliament already introduced a correct definition of net neutrality and the obligation for providers to comply with it in the telecommunications legislative package last april, thanks to a number of amendments. they will be able to offer specialised services and to disseminate some content at a better quality and speed, provided that the quality and speed of dissemination of the other content is not impaired. but a few days ago, thanks to a leak from edri.org, we learned that the eu council, under the italian presidency, wants to delete the obligation and definition of net neutrality from the telecommunications package, naming it only as a vague goal to be pursued. if this is confirmed, if this principle is ever watered down in europe, sacrificed on the altar of free competition, the internet will lose its role as a free and creative space which has contributed so much to human progress over the last twenty years. without the neutrality of the net, the internet could become a service to the individual as a mere consumer, just as television has become an instrument of mass cultural evolution, and thus of information control and public opinion control. without net neutrality we might not even have been able to read this leak that i mentioned, because it would be possible to make it uncomfortable for you to access it to content that is basically commercial. the net neutrality is therefore also a matter of democracy and freedom and i call on this commission and parliament to maintain the net neutrality principle in the telecommunications legislative package to be negotiated with the council and to make it explicitly clear in the digital single market package.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in a minute and a half i will be able to say that the internet was born on three fundamental principles: the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules. on these three principles - standards, openness, neutrality - what has happened in the last 25 years has happened. it's a tool for tremendous growth, a tool for creating new technologies, new businesses, new jobs that has changed the way we work, the way we study, the way we inform ourselves, the way we make policy. it has fundamentally changed everything we do, based on these three principles, all of which are under threat: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the one in the opening: because it doesn't seem strange to us, but the web that we have known as open is in danger of becoming, and is becoming more and more, a space of closed places, of large closed compounds, where you go in and it's hard to get out. some services are becoming all-encompassing. there's a saying on the internet: winner takes all. but winner take all is not the way we want our market to be. but it does, so there's one social network, one; a microblogging site, just one; there's one search engine, one. there's only one of everything. is this what europe will want in the future for this market? i think not, and neither should the friends of alde. the openness, the concept of openness that has been so important in bringing the internet to where it is today is threatened, commissioner, the concept of neutrality is threatened. don't touch any of these principles. they've been the foundation of the success of the internet, of everything that's happened. don't feel responsible for erasing it for the future.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the completion of the european digital market is a priority and its positive impact on economic growth and the quality of life of citizens does not allow us to waste any more time. the network enables companies to find new outlets for their products, reaching their customers directly wherever they are in the world. but they can also use the cloud to store their data, and the list of opportunities is endless. the investments in digital technology that president juncker reiterated this morning require a strong commitment from all. of course, for the european digital market to be able to express itself at its best, it is not enough to remove barriers, operators must be able to compete with each other on an equal footing. and the network, in order to be truly free and open, must not have masters, that is, actors who abuse their dominant position acquired precisely by exploiting the free and open nature of the network itself. what some people are doing on and with the net requires us to take action to protect citizens and businesses. the european commission must do this by firmly enforcing the competition rules. but to maintain effective competition, we all have to consider that different players such as search engines, content aggregators, e-commerce platforms, broadcasters and telcos now provide similar services to each other and therefore it makes no sense that they are subject to different rules. a true level playing field requires equal rules for all. the market is one and it is the market for content. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the internal market. here 's an example . the editorial responsibility which, under the media services directive, currently applies only to traditional publishers must be extended to other actors. mr president, the court of justice in its judgment in the google spain case has given us precise guidance which goes beyond the right to be forgotten. of course, data is important, but it's not everything. the judgment reminds us of the importance of applying european and national law to all companies, including those based in third countries but providing services in the union, having a real link with our economy. these non-european companies, and i conclude, if they take resources such as advertising in our countries and make a lot of money selling our data, they must pay taxes and they must be subject to the same rules as european companies. they cannot take advantage of the absence of rules in the third countries in which they are established. i therefore hope that the commission will take account of the opinion of the european parliament, and that is in the interests of our industry, our businesses and above all our fellow europeans.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the digital single market is one of the areas of development and a valuable tool for europe's recovery. however, this important efficiency tool must be well calibrated to achieve an overall protection result for the parties involved, who remain at the heart of a spontaneous and free use of digital tools and must be able to seize all opportunities without limit. i have no difficulty believing, to cite one criticism, that the same internet search algorithm of the most widely used search engine (google) may not be indifferent to the need to return, even by means of subsequent and unconscious acceptances by the user, geolocation and other references, customized responses that respond to market logic and perhaps not in competition more than in free competition. the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the whole of the european union, including the member states, and to extend it to cover the whole of the european union. only with certain rules can the digital single market be created, guaranteeing a level playing field for all businesses and security for citizens.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, i would like to thank you for this stimulating and lively debate. the resolution covers the key and critical points needed for the development of a fully functioning digital single market. i can only support your call to the council to open negotiations on the telecoms single market. it is a crucial building block towards a european market that fits the needs of our citizens. barriers will not fall easily. but ensuring the implementation of existing instruments such as the consumer rights directive, and the full enforcement of our rules – including competition rules – will guarantee fair competition, bring more transparency in the market and reduce the administrative burden. our single market needs to further modernise consumer rules and copyright, but it also needs to adopt for the technologies ready to come on the market in the near future, such as big data, cloud computing and the internet of things. we have an ambitious agenda, and i look forward to working closely with parliament on the development of the digital single market. thank you for all your many ideas for how to achieve this goal.
member of the commission. - mr president, this is the first time (although it is late) for me to stand in front of you and present the current state of the steel industry in europe. i would like to say a few words and present the overview of the current state. as you remember, the commission adopted a year ago, in june 2013, a commission communication action plan for a competitive and sustainable steel industry in europe, the so-called steel action plan. this plan recognised the strategic importance of steel to the eu and emphasised that steel-making has a future in europe, as the european steel industry has many assets in the form of modern plants, advanced products, demanding clients forcing, i hope, constant product innovation and an important domestic market, and of course a skilled workforce. it has also made significant efforts to reduce its environmental impact. the sector, however, faced and still faces major challenges: low demand, increasing energy costs, reliance on imported raw materials, strong and not always undistorted competition and challenging environmental requirements. in its steel action plan, the commission underlined the importance of addressing these challenges at both eu and national level. shortly after the communication on the steel action plan was adopted, the commission formally created in 2013 our high level expert group on steel, with the aim of providing a european platform for dialogue, exchange of information and best practice. in june 2014, a commission staff working document was published which takes stock of the progress made since the adoption of the steel action plan. while highlighting its implementation gaps, it provides an interim overview of the implementation of the actions by the commission, individual member states and industry as well, of course, as by social partners. the majority of the key challenges addressed are unlikely to be overcome in a single year, so the overview is a first snapshot, and implementation continues. in one year since the adoption of the steel action plan, about half of the actions foreseen in it have been implemented. moreover, the fact that the economic situation is slightly improving has led to higher consumption of steel in the main steel-using sectors and has therefore resulted in a better outlook for the steel sector overall. a strong commitment to follow-up underlines the importance of the steel action plan for the sector. the constructive discussions in the meeting of the high level group have highlighted the usefulness and the need to continue the dialogue among major stakeholders in this important industrial area.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr commissioner, i very much appreciated your speech because it confirmed the commitment of the commission, and in particular of the commissioner for growth, industry and the internal market, to the steel industry. he will have the support of the whole group of the european people's party in this action, because we are convinced that the steel sector is and will be decisive in achieving the objective of 20% of gross domestic product by the end of 2020 coming from manufacturing. this is a key sector which must be supported, and which must be able to meet the challenges you have mentioned, with all the problems that go with it. so it is right to implement the commission's action plan, but i think that in a year's time a new report will have to be presented, as was done this year, and next year we will have to take stock of the situation to understand exactly what the state of the art is. the commission has already taken a number of measures to help the countries of central and eastern europe to cope with the crisis. we must prevent a proliferation of relocation cases such as that of the austrian voestalpine, and we must also convene the high-level group as soon as possible to discuss the problems of sites undergoing major restructuring - i am thinking of florange in france, u.s. steel in slovakia, galați in romania, liège in belgium, dąbrowa górnicza in poland, the ilva, piombino and terni cases in italy. and speaking of terni: the commission has already taken a number of decisions on the application of the competition rules. it is time, madam commissioner, to open a debate on these very rules. today they are obsolete. in the face of globalisation, we need new and more modern rules to enable european industries to compete in the world. the present ones are from 1957 and apply only to our enterprises. this is the real problem that must be solved if we are to save the steel industry in the long term. i hope that your colleague in charge of competition will follow through on her commitment and really start a new season also in competition policy.
the commission has already taken a number of steps to ensure that the steel plan is implemented in a way that is compatible with the common market. but we think that is not enough and that we must go beyond the action plan. the case referred to by mr tajani, also from the terni special industries, is a clear example of the limits of the policy framework (competition, state aid, trade) and of the inadequacy of this policy framework to support the competitiveness of the european steel industry in the world. we must therefore build a new set of rules, a new framework, understanding, for example, that the market shares for the steel industry must be calculated on a global basis, not just on a european basis, that all the instruments provided for in the current rules of trade policy must be applied consistently, and that industrial policy must be pursued seriously. we hope that the negotiations in terni will be concluded positively, that the second furnace will be guaranteed, that there will be a future for such a strong and competitive industry. but we think that the new commission must go beyond the old steel plan and make a qualitative leap in the formulation of industrial policies to meet the challenges of the global world.
i am grateful to the commissioner for her report, although i must say that i do not think it fully reflects the dramatic situation of steel production on this continent. this debate is also inspired by the oral question we have tabled on the industrial and employment prospects of the iron and steel sector in the european union, and we consider it very urgent for parliament, the italian presidency and the commission to take action to counter the loss of jobs and strategic production such as steel in the member states. i think it should be stressed that in italy the situation is really that of a dismantling of a strategic production axis. we are talking about establishments such as that in piombino, taranto and terni, which i would like to mention in particular tonight. because it is a dispute which we are following with particular concern, because it is a dispute emblematic of the contradictions we are facing. firstly, the contradiction between the right to work and the principle of competition. we believe that the right to work must come before the principle of competition, the rules of competition which, as has been said, must be radically revised, which are obsolete, which are an obstacle to the maintenance of productive assets as well as jobs, rules which, moreover, do not prevent very heavy forms of social dumping. thyssenkrupp opts for solidarity contracts in germany and a licence in italy, dismantling a production plant with historical roots. so we ask - i really only want to steal a few seconds from you - we strongly ask for a new and different european plan for steel. we strongly urge that the most relevant, more specialised production lines, such as the ast plant in terni, be maintained, which, moreover, as an integrated cycle plant with a low environmental impact, also has a high level of production specialisation. we call on the commission and the member states to work to ensure that a strategic production axis is not dismantled.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, let us put things in order: let's talk about estimates. the commission therefore concluded that the union industry suffered material injury within the meaning of article 3 (5) of the basic regulation. the community's agricultural policy is in a state of flux. the highest increases are in latin america and africa. another significant increase was recorded by asia and oceania (+6%). of course, europe is taking off. the trend is confirmed by the interest of multinational companies outside the european union in ilva and lucchini di piombino. but not only: terni's ast will also most likely be put back on the market by thyssenkrupp. guess what. who do you think can buy it? shall we open our eyes? shall we try to open our eyes? we are witnessing the liquidation of european steel. we are trying to ensure that the asset transfers that are on the horizon do not conceal a further reduction in eu production to the benefit of extra-eu production. at the same time we are guaranteeing environmental plans for the rehabilitation of all european steelworks, not to mention those in italy, which are devastated. we italians should also be careful that thyssenkrupp does not try to sell off ast steel in favour of german and finnish steel. the question of the ast, italian colleagues, is a battle in the war being fought for the economic sovereignty of our country and for the future of our children. it's not enough to talk about it anymore, the workers are tired of hearing nice words: we need strong action both in europe and in italy. i wonder what the point is of welcoming the workers of the ast here in the european parliament with such pomp and ceremony if we are not able to do anything concrete for them. in the short term, the european union and italy can only achieve new development in the medium and long term through a far-sighted industrial policy aimed at manufacturing. for industry and at the same time for our workers the five star movement will fight as our grandfathers did in the last century.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, welcome to the commissioner, and i believe that this first contact we have with her on the subject of steel can be a harbinger of a commitment, we will remember this first evening dedicated to such an important subject. i therefore ask you to give substance to the statement you have made, and which we all agree on, that there can be no industrial development without a european steel industry, if we do not want to be totally dependent on production outside europe. if that is the case, then please give concrete form to the commitments that follow, including the continuation of the steel plan, which was a strategic plan, a good intuition, a good job and which i believe must be carried out not by inertia, but by continuity, just so as to let things go on, but with conviction, even updating it, completing it. we talked about competitive profiles, we talked about research profiles, we talked about trade policy. so much can be done and we ask you to do it. but europe has a special duty. this commission, this parliament, have a special duty in the terni case, because you know very well that the application of our rules was one of the factors which certainly contributed to that critical situation. so we ask you: how can we not be aware of the situation that has arisen there? we all remember that when the european commission authorized the takeover of the terni site by thyssenkrupp, it was assured that all the rules would be respected and that a site would be built where there would be very strong production, and that the specific production capacity for stainless steel and export capacity would also be guaranteed. but that did not happen, and so there must be monitoring. thyssenkrupp has not respected the commitments it made to the european commission under those competition rules. we must be vigilant, we must call for this respect, for qualified continuity of production, for respect for employment. here's what we expect from you: the commission is not the only one to have a problem with this. (the speaker agrees to answer a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
i'm asking for a blue card. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i wanted to ask if mrs toia could tell me what had been promised to the workers' delegation from terni who had come to brussels with a document which had disappeared two days earlier and then been completely distorted. we cannot be surprised if the commission is playing tricks, since the workers' demands that came here to brussels in a flash have been turned upside down and changed.
answer to a blue-card question. mr president, i am very sorry about two things. firstly, that colleagues whom i respect and think are always well-informed and well-prepared are so careless and ignorant of documents and facts. but this is a matter of personal seriousness. secondly, that there is a national controversy here. we did not make any documents disappear. we have signed a document by the workers, the political forces here, and that document has remained in our work and in our commitment, so much so that we have submitted it for this session and we will do so for the next by adhering to a request that you also made by changing the title, and we accepted it and it passed with our votes. we have prepared a whole question, a very detailed, very precise question, which takes up the commitments which the workers have asked us to make, because we share them, for the simple reason of responsibility for the problems and personal and political consistency. so no weird invention of documents coming and going. we have signed the document brought to us by the workers and we are developing it with subsequent documents and with our political action.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to wish the commissioner a good day's work, and i asked her a question about the steel industry during the hearings i gave her a short while ago. we are here again to discuss a major subject which, as mr toia and mr tajani have mentioned, is certainly of great concern to my country, italy. the first point i would like to make is - and some colleagues have also mentioned this - the worrying increase in steel production in china. over the past ten years, steel produced in china has risen from 23% of the world total to as much as 50%. at the same time, in my country, italy, which is historically linked to the steel industry, there has been a 24% fall in steel production. there are reasons, specific reasons, for which we must be vigilant, particularly at this time, trying to balance, as has been said, the reasons of large-scale industry with the reasons of justified concern for the environment. but with the concern that environmental concern will not turn into ecological obsession and thus produce anti-industrial attitudes, because the only great effect of the anti-industrial attitudes we know of is the reduction of work on our continent. the italian case, and in particular the case of terni, suffered its first major blow ten years ago when the production of magnetic sheet metal was moved to germany. in ten years this has led to a serious downsizing of the strength of that production site. today we have another big industrial problem, which has rightly been mentioned, because in the course of 2014 the re-acquisition of ast was made with the reassurance about the technological and industrial centrality of that site. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's steel industry is not left behind by the economic crisis. that is why it is right that you should be asked to work with your colleague, the commissioner for competition, mrs vestager, to ensure that this emergency for european steel is handled from an industrial point of view. (the speaker agrees to answer a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure). )
i'm asking for a blue card. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i wanted to ask the honourable member if he was aware of the taranto emergency, if he knew how many people died in taranto, how many had cancer, how many were infertile, how many had endometriosis, if he knew what had happened to the milch farmers, the shepherds, the farmers. do not give us, the environmentalists, the crazy, the taliban, the extremists, because we are talking about an extreme emergency, not only economic, but also environmental and health.
answer to a blue-card question. mr president, i agree with the concern of the honourable member. he made statements using terms i did not use, so he was probably referring to speeches by other colleagues. i did not speak of the taliban, i did not speak of the madmen, i simply spoke of the need for there to be - try to listen to the recording of my speech again - a proper balance between the needs of the industrial strength of our countries and the right, legitimate ecological concern, so that ecological concern does not turn into ecological obsession and therefore into anti-industrial behaviour. we are concerned that the two requirements should converge towards a single, great objective, which is development and employment.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the union is protecting small local agricultural production, spending billions to save the banks and doing nothing to stop the destruction of the industrial culture which is our main wealth. the ast steelworks are a glorious story. here we talk a lot about numbers. there are also daily lives, stories. the steelworks in terni have been in existence for 130 years, they are part of the landscape, of the culture of a territory and above all of the life of a population which, from generation to generation, has accumulated a unique knowledge in the world in the production of high quality steel. these factories are the moral property of the people of terni long before they are the legal property of this or that company. then a multinational company, thyssenkrupp, comes along and, in breach of commitments already made, decides that no more steel will be made in terni. it is true that the italian government has a serious responsibility, but the commission has nevertheless erred in applying outdated competition rules, which have produced unfair effects. we must correct this mistake and force the multinationals to respect the rules we have all agreed upon.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this debate is becoming largely an italian debate, partly because the news of recent days, including this one, has brought to the attention of all, especially those who represent our country, a serious issue, that of thyssen, that is to say, of a historic site of high-quality steel production. we are not dealing here with firms to be saved, we are dealing with the unjustified closure of a sector which is important for our economic sovereignty but also for european production, which is of a very high level, moved without the commission intervening, although it should have intervened, without there being any control by the european commission for obligations which had to be respected precisely on the basis of the rules which are so often imposed on us. a european and global market in sharp contraction, with a china which, in trouble because of overproduction, is ready to invade our market with its products. in the euro-zone, the price lists of steel companies are being released and this forced departure of workers, the loss of our companies, is a very serious loss for the european steel industry and for the european economy. you've told us a lot of stories and you haven't defended our businesses with your crazy rules about austerity and failed state aid. this is the way european industry is going to sink.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner bieńkowska, you have said that you will act on the european steel plan and that steel still has a future. it is crucial, however, that this plan, madam commissioner, is not just announced but that it is equipped with immediately operational instruments and, above all, that it is a priority and that it follows a coherent line, aimed at employment and energy and environmental innovation in all the international contexts in which the union is involved. europe must do more and we hope, madam commissioner, that you in particular will do more to really support the future of steel, starting with the crises in europe and particularly in italy, as all my italian colleagues have mentioned, and of course starting with the terni ast, which is meeting the government in these hours to resolve the matter, i hope. we would like to know from you whether your commitment will be consistent in this respect and what place steel and the steel industry will have in the investment plan, for example, which mr juncker has presented today.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, europe has long since exhausted the continent's cheap energy and mineral resources, but we have been able to maintain our industry thanks to a political, economic and technological supremacy which has continued through inertia for decades and which is now over. let us face it. today the center of the world is elsewhere, in places where other nations are redeeming themselves, where energy is cheaper, minerals are cheaper, labor is cheaper. the products manufactured in europe carry many additional costs not only for the above-mentioned imports but also for the hefty costs of european standards on the environment, emissions, social protection and workers' rights. in other places these costs do not exist, because they are outsourced to the whole planet, to the whole of humanity, to the dignity of individual men. it is the free global market that allows this. we can save those steelworks in europe which are less dependent on imports of raw materials because they are able to process recycled scrap on the spot, or which are special because they produce special steels. but we cannot close down all the steel mills on the continent and become dependent on a material, an asset, which is still indispensable. we must therefore have the courage to impose a new form of social and environmental taxation not only on the member states but also on those who export steel to europe, a taxation which is not an anachronistic form of duty but which is ethically and thermodynamically consistent and which at least allows for a level playing field. a european taxation, therefore, which incorporates in the final prices of imported products also energy consumption, emissions, environmental and health externalities for mining and transport of minerals, the deficit in social and trade union rights of workers outside europe. so products manufactured outside europe and imported with lower ethical and thermodynamic standards than those in europe will have higher costs, those with better standards will cost less and this will drive us forward. this is one of the revolutions we expect from this europe, but it takes courage and strength to discuss the rules of competition and state aid of the european states to the renewable energy transition.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, do we want to see a qualitative development? do we want sustainable development? i am from taranto, a city notorious for the ilva steelworks, one of the largest in europe, which is responsible for the pollution of the air, the soil, the surrounding land, which has seriously affected the local health and the local economy. there are 36 deaths per year among the population, 104 in 11 years among employees, not counting malformations, infertility, cardiorespiratory diseases and neoplasia. this is in clear violation of article 191 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, which aims at a high level of protection based on the precautionary principle and the principle of 'polluter pays', and also in violation of directive 2010/75/eu, article 8 of which states: 'where the breach of the conditions of authorisation constitutes an immediate danger to health or ... the environment ... the operation of the installation ... or of the party concerned shall be suspended.' the aim was to reduce costs and maximise profits by appeasing the controllers and excluding business ethics. the responsibilities of the political class in europe are also enormous. i therefore ask parliament and the commission to draw up industrial conversion plans which guarantee safety, health of workers and the environment where, as in taranto, the disposal of polluting industrial sites and plans for environmental rehabilitation and neighbouring land rights are necessary.
member of the commission. - mr president, honourable members, thank you very much for all of your remarks, suggestions and opinions. i really want to stress that i take them all very seriously, and i will elaborate on them later on. i see the steel sector as one of the main pillars in the reindustrialisation agenda. the strength of this sector must lie in quality, know-how and skills. that is why, when talking about the steel industry, we have to take into account industry and employees. i intend to continue the work of the high-level expert group. i think that, as regards turning, which was mentioned by many of you, this will provide a reliable sounding board to discuss the situation in the stainless steel sector in europe. i also, in this case, duly report to commissioner vestager, who is responsible for competition, and commissioner thyssen of course. we must protect the competitiveness of the steel sector in europe. you were rightly in saying that the eu is confronted with strong dumping measures, but it has to be said that there are currently ten ongoing anti-dumping investigations and 37 measures in force related to steel. it also has to be said that we have the waste shipment regulation to prevent illegal scrap from leaving europe. this debate shows that we are going, hand in hand, in the same direction. we must have the courage to defend modern, innovative european steel. we have to do it not only at the european level but at the national and regional levels. in conclusion, you can count on me in this; you can count on my strong, direct and personal involvement in solving this issue, and i hope that this is only the very beginning of our fruitful cooperation.
member of the commission. - mr president, honourable members, i am here with you today on behalf of commissioner mimica. i would like to thank ms mcavan for this pertinent question. it reminds us all that undernutrition is not only a real human tragedy but also an economic issue which can be in the way of sustainable development. let me underline that the commission is fully engaged to improve the current situation, since in the last few years the european union has indeed emerged as a key actor in the area of nutrition and has put nutrition at the heart of its development policy. the 2013 commission communication ‘enhancing maternal and child nutrition in external assistance: an eu policy framework’ set a strategy on nutrition with two objectives: reducing wasting as well as stunting of children under the age of five. the commission has also developed two action plans: one which addresses undernutrition in emergencies and mainly targets wasting. the second one sets out how the commission will implement the eur 3.5 billion it has pledged to reduce the number of stunted children under the age of five by seven million. although these action plans do not foresee any mid-term evaluation, accountability to track financial resources and monitor the impact of nutrition intervention represents an important horizontal pillar of our nutrition action plan. we are fully aware that nutrition-specific intervention which addresses the immediate causes of undernutrition will not be sufficient. there is a need to address the basic and immediate causes of undernutrition. therefore nutrition has to be mainstreamed in other relevant sectors like agriculture, education and water, and nutrition-sensitive intervention implemented. this is one of the reasons why the commission has earmarked eur 3.1 billion for nutrition-sensitive intervention, mainly through agriculture. unfortunately there is not enough evidence on the effectiveness of nutrition-sensitive intervention. to address this challenge the commission will promote applied research to identify the cost-effectiveness and monitor the impact of nutrition-sensitive actions. based on the results of these efforts, the commission may decide, during the mid-term review in 2017, to redirect some funds to possibly better-performing actions in order to attain the set objectives by 2025. in front of the challenges ahead, the commission cannot work alone. the commission intends to continue raising awareness of undernutrition issues in international forums like the scaling up nutrition (sun) movement, which has now been joined by 54 countries in the committee on world food security. second, the commission will also strengthen its strategic partnership with fao and who for nutrition and use events like the international conference on nutrition to keep the political momentum on nutrition. third, at country level, the commission has applied the principle of aid effectiveness through the joint programming within the 2014-2020 programming exercise. last but not least, the commission will continue its collaboration with ngos through regular information- and experience-sharing lessons. in conclusion, i am fully aware that tackling undernutrition effectively will require combined efforts at all levels. i welcome parliament’s interest in this matter and i thank you for your continued support.
i would like to say that this is our first meeting in this house on a particularly important subject, because there are such dramatic realities that we almost become accustomed to, as if they were inevitable. but then, looking a little closer, we see that they are not at all inevitable or inexorable, that they are tragic realities but perfectly manageable. we know how it should be done, we know what tools we should use, we know the causes of these phenomena and we see the effects. and so i think that the very fact - as my colleague said - that they are not inevitable should really make us take on a great responsibility and understand that if it is possible to do it, we must do it. the problem is whether we are able, whether we are willing to put the instruments into practice and, above all, whether we are willing to do so to the appropriate extent. today this phenomenon of malnutrition, of child malnutrition, takes on even more subtle, more hidden forms: it is the so-called hidden hunger, which is less obvious, less impactful even as images that come to our eyes, to our knowledge through ngos and international cooperation operators, but which are equally negative and harmful to the development of children and girls. and so this phenomenon of hidden hunger is also one of the things we want to address. we are mobilizing with renewed vigour these days, just as the 25th anniversary of the declaration of the rights of the child is being commemorated. and i really thank our chairman, linda mcavan, and all the shadow colleagues because we want to tell you that our commitment as a parliament is not just to the deve committee, but to the whole parliament. we call on the commission to take this step forward with equal efficiency and conviction. i really think that we should not have - i say this first of all to myself - the right to commemorate and celebrate if we do not accompany this right with a serious commitment, a measurable commitment (you spoke of numbers, figures and dates, and we appreciated that) and a commitment also that looks at the effectiveness in its use. we know that the resources allocated to international development, like other resources within the union, are not always used effectively, but we cannot afford to lose anything here. so this dimension of monitoring effectiveness, of understanding what's going on with our plans, also becomes absolutely essential. then i think we must take these commitments with renewed vigour. you spoke about these plans, you also spoke about the need to do an evaluation of effectiveness to see how to reprogram interventions. i ask you to maintain a very cooperative and very engaging relationship with parliament throughout this process, because you will find, as you have seen, in the committee great competence and great passion and therefore great willingness to cooperate in the development of the most effective measures. a lot has been done - some results have been mentioned by linda mcavan, she has mentioned them - and i think europe should be proud to have contributed to these results. but it's coming back in certain geographical areas and places where it wasn't because of the economic crisis, because of speculation in the price of food, of the basic food commodities. we therefore ask you to involve your colleagues in a somewhat more horizontal and comprehensive policy approach to trace the causes of some of these phenomena which can be tackled in other sectors, perhaps with a different agricultural policy, for example, with a different trade policy, with a financial policy. this phenomenon of speculation in food commodities is something which i believe is intolerable to the general public in this parliament. finally, one final point: we've all seen, reading and documenting, not just for this occasion but for our work, how fundamental the role of women is. there are some chilling facts: women contribute 80% of food production in developing countries and are 60% of the malnourished. they are the real farmers, and they have 2% of the ownership. we also have a policy towards women, who are a factor in development in many countries, not just in the west as we know it.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr commissioner, in this very chamber, as my colleagues have said, pope francis has reminded us that europe has a special responsibility in the fight against poverty and hunger in the world. the right to food will only be guaranteed if we take care of the real subject of the right, the person who suffers from the effects of hunger and malnutrition, and this means, at the political and legislative level, ensuring the greatest possible coherence between the internal and external policies of the european union, between the commitment to poverty reduction and the implementation of european choices in policies such as agriculture, the environment, fisheries and energy. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, unicef, who, the world bank and the un have recently reported that infant mortality rates between zero and five years of age have fallen by 49% in the last 20 years. so in this period, as many as 100 million children have been saved, even though, given the hand, 6.3 million children under the age of five died in 2013. malnutrition remains the world's number one disease, and about 80% of malnourished children live in sub-saharan africa or south asia. although we would like to emphasize the good work done by the rapporteur in the committee on development, we must do better and strive with conviction to achieve better results. i therefore urge my colleagues in this parliament to accept our amendment which provides for the provision of sustainable water and electricity as a sine qua non condition for the people of the underdeveloped countries to live independently. every day, my friends, 17 000 children die. we must not waste time in fruitless discussions, because in the minute that i have been giving this speech 12 other children have already died.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, child malnutrition and world hunger must be the real priority for the european union and the commission must develop a serious policy against food waste. for too many children, childhood is not a happy time. more than 225 million children under five suffer from malnutrition or stunted growth as a result. in developing countries it kills 2.6 million children each year and is by far the leading cause of infant mortality. the european union is therefore called upon to significantly step up its efforts in this area. the complexity of the approaches would require a higher level of management involving several strategic sectors (health, education, agriculture and water resources) through integrated actions to combat and finally eradicate the problem. for this task, the european union must, by involving the united nations, the g8, the g20 and emerging countries, press the governments of countries at risk of a nutritional emergency to promote reforms that will make the large agro-food production chains less selfish and enable small farmers to produce more effectively and sustainably enough food for themselves and their families.
author. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in his speech to the constituent assembly of pakistan on 11 august 1947, ali jinnah, the founding father of the nation, enshrined the principle of equality between citizens. jinnah argued that pakistanis were free, free to go to their temples, free to go to their mosques and any other place of worship in the state of pakistan. pakistanis could belong to any religion or caste or creed, because that had nothing to do with the affairs of the state. shahzad masih and his pregnant wife shama and aisha bibi are just the latest of many victims of pakistan's blasphemy law. this law represents the most important tool of oppression of religious minorities and denies the very values on which pakistan was founded. each episode of alleged blasphemy forms a chain of injustice, in which violence increases exponentially with each passing step. the european union must do everything in its power to ensure that the pakistani government guarantees its citizens full respect for the human rights enshrined in the international convention to which it is a party, including through the threat of suspending the system of generalized preferences.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the concept of conditionality is as important as it is abused. pakistan, our important partner, is a good example of how consistency is often a rare commodity in the eu's external relations. since 1 january 2014, it has been granted gsp+ status, a preferential access to the single market given to developing countries that commit to ratifying 27 conventions related to human rights, labour, environment and good governance. i wonder how this obligation and the international covenant on civil and political rights of 1966 can be reconciled with the so-called blasphemy laws, which in some cases provide for the death penalty or life imprisonment and in others the impossibility of preaching or propagating one's faith, whatever it may be. that the granting of the status is due to a sudden crisis of blindness on the part of the commission? these crises are frequent, when commercial interests are at stake and must be given priority over rights. incredible choices that make us untrustworthy and that don't help our pakistani friends. to not be outraged by this, to me, is the real blasphemy. (the speaker agrees to answer a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
answer to a blue-card question. mr president, as you know, i am one of those who always denounces this, but i also ask myself: what does this have to do with freedom of religion and freedom of thought? i sincerely believe that the european union can develop an important and healthy commercial and political relationship with pakistan. and that is why as friends we must remind our friends that just as we must do more to enable development in countries which are currently even further behind than ours, they must also try to give greater freedom of expression and religion. the right approach is 'more for more' and we must pursue it consistently.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the question of pakistan seems to me to be self-evident: europe is helping pakistan and pakistan is destroying our small and mediumsized enterprises at european and italian level. they burned two christians and here it is pretending to be practically nothing, but as soon as putin says something you are against russia and against putin. you cowards, you must wake up. i have a proposal, the solution to improve europe and make pakistan happier: we must take katainen and juncker, take them to pakistan, let them stay there, and then europe will take over. because it's a catch for the bottoms! as juncker said, 315 billion when he was 21, that's a catch! it is as if europe were to wake up and, as we say in italy, the beat minchia! they're waking up here, nothing works. nothing works here and you don't wake up, except pakistan.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, pakistan is the only muslim country with a blasphemy law. since 1990, when this law was introduced, there have been about 60 executions. sharia violence does not only affect christians but also other minorities. in this house we have protested against the decision of the lahore high court to uphold the death sentence for blasphemy against aisha bibi, and we have also expressed our horror at the murder of two young men, christian married couples, parents of four children, who were burned alive in pakistan by an angry mob because they were wrongly accused of blasphemy. but indignation is not enough. europe must urge pakistan to take the necessary steps to repeal the odious blasphemy law. the european union has a duty to urge the government in islamabad to consider a moratorium on executions. formal sentences are no longer enough. europe must use all the instruments at its disposal to put pressure on the pakistani government to help the religious communities. europe can and must act to ensure that pakistan respects its obligations in respect of freedom of expression and freedom of religion and belief.
member of the commission. - mr president, honourable members, on behalf of the high representative/vice-president, federica mogherini, we welcome the adoption of your resolution on the blasphemy laws in pakistan. as recalled in the european union guidelines on freedom of religion or belief and the european union guidelines on freedom of expression, laws that criminalise blasphemy can have serious inhibiting effects on the exercise of these human rights. as a general principle, the european union recommends the decriminalisation of blasphemy offences. in pakistan the blasphemy laws are frequently used to settle personal conflicts or to stoke up secretarian and interfaith tensions. the application of blasphemy laws is an issue of considerable concern for the european union, not least because they carry the death penalty. in our human rights dialogue with pakistan in june we discussed the blasphemy laws. we reminded the government of pakistan of its obligation to enforce the provision of the international covenant on civil and political rights concerning freedom of religion or belief. during his official visit to pakistan in october 2014, the eu special representative for human rights, mr stavros lambrinidis, specifically raised the misuse of blasphemy laws with several ministers as well as with religious leaders. he also expressed deep concern at the decision of the high court to uphold the conviction of mrs asia bibi, despite blasphemy legislation being a sensitive issue within pakistani society. the eu message is that leaders, whether political or religious, must find the courage to address this. threats and violence against judges, lawyers and human rights defenders involved with these cases are common. some of them have even been killed. it must be clear that any form of immunity for such crimes would undermine the justice system and the rule of law. the european union will continue to use any appropriate opportunity to raise this issue with our pakistani counterparts. in this regard, the gsp+ trade preferences are a major milestone in our relations with pakistan. gsp+ offers a clear framework for assessing and promoting progress in implementing the 27 co-international conventions on human rights, labour rights, environment and good governance – a process we are following closely. the european union, and notably our delegation in islamabad, will continue to follow the case of asia bibi closely and to advocate for the verdict to be overturned and for mrs bibi to be released. the european union will use any opportunity to raise this case, and the wider issues of the death penalty and the blasphemy law, with our pakistani counterparts. i have taken note of and welcome your strong interest in this issue. let me assure you that the european union remains fully committed to engage with pakistan – with the government, human rights defenders and other stakeholders – to promote and defend human rights. the forthcoming visit to europe by the chair of the pakistani senate early next year may be a useful opportunity to discuss our concerns.
in writing. i want to speak today to remind us all of the importance of continuing to fight tirelessly in defence of human rights in all those places where they are constantly threatened. i am referring now, in particular, to the situation in pakistan. we all know the story of asia bibi, the christian mother of five children who was sentenced to death for drinking water from a muslim well. the matter is even more shocking when we consider that the high court of justice of pakistan has ratified the death sentence, which will be carried out shortly. so there is no rule of law in pakistan and christians continue to be persecuted with impunity. it is important that the pakistani authorities realise that if they continue to violate human rights so barbarously, dialogue with the european union will become impossible, since a sine qua non of dialogue is precisely good governance and respect for human rights. and asia bibi's case is not unique in recent history, as just two weeks ago, on november 7, a christian couple was beaten to death, accused of burning pages of the koran.
author. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the serbian ultra-nationalist leader, vojislav šešelj, who is on trial before the international criminal court for war crimes and who has been temporarily released on health grounds, has returned to belgrade and was greeted at the airport by his family and numerous supporters who sang chants and chanted anti-government slogans. šešelj is accused of crimes committed against muslims and croats during the war in the former yugoslavia. serbian politicians and media commenting on šešelj's return home made no mention of war and crimes. the crucial topic covered by serbian media was the function and the actual legitimacy of the hague tribunal: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the european parliament has been involved in the negotiations with serbia and whether he is aware that the european parliament has been involved in negotiations with serbia and whether the european parliament has been involved in negotiations with serbia and whether the european parliament has been involved in negotiations with serbia and whether the european parliament has been involved in negotiations with serbia and whether the european parliament has been involved in negotiations with serbia and whether the european parliament has been involved in negotiations with serbia and serbia. shecheli moved very well among the crowd and without any help from anyone, he even entertained the crowd by giving speeches as a political leader. the european union cannot stand by and watch the myth of those who have allegedly committed horrendous crimes against humanity be worshipped. in cases like these, a more rapid and certain course of justice would be desirable, because there is a risk of unacceptable delegitimizations.
author. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in recent years isis has created a pattern of systematic violation of all human rights, which is essential to the realization of its evil project. in this view, violence and atrocity are tools of propaganda and conquest. the cost of this is the death of more than 5 000 women, prisoners destined to be slaves and concubines, as was the case today with two former candidates for the iraqi parliament in mosul. there's no remorse even in front of the girls. what kind of world is it where being raped at 12 is the everyday norm? our sakharov prize reminded us that the international community has drawn a red line for chemical, nuclear and biological weapons, but rape is cheaper, more accessible and perhaps even more destructive: it destroys the soul and the body in one fell swoop. if we as a union do not really punish those who finance and support those who use it as a weapon, we are also guilty. guilty, guilty of uttering only beautiful words.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, according to a recent amnesty international report, since the islamic state launched its campaign of systematic ethnic cleansing of northern iraq, hundreds if not thousands of women and children from the yazidi minority have been abducted. the militias of the islamic state continue to dominate parts of the territory and inflict terrible torture on the population. there 's a way to avoid them . to convert. but sometimes, especially with women, even that's not enough. sex slaves given to the best emir or abused for use and consumption by extremist troops, many of them to escape the ferocity decide to end their lives. the fate of most of the women abducted and held captive by the islamic state remains unknown. these horrors are barely crossing the borders of the territories controlled by the islamic militias. these acts of sexual violence constitute grave violations of human rights and can be considered both war crimes and crimes against humanity. gentlemen, we cannot just stand by and watch! we look for and find ways to intervene in the most effective way right away.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, last 25 november we celebrated the international day for the elimination of violence against women, but this event is just an empty commemoration in view of what is happening in iraq because of the terrorists of the islamic state. yazidi women are subjected to horrific violence, abduction, abuse, sexual abuse, forced marriage, conversion and summary executions on a daily basis. i strongly condemn this violence and call on the commission and the member states to take concrete measures to ensure that the fundamental rights of these women are respected. i also hope that the iraqi government will become a member of the international criminal court as soon as possible in order to allow the prosecution of war crimes and crimes against humanity committed by the islamic state.
member of the commission. - mr president, honourable members, i am honoured to be here today, on behalf of high representative/vice-president federica mogherini, to address an issue of the greatest concern. we are dismayed, like all of you, by the daily reports of atrocities specifically targeting women and girls by isis and associated armed groups in iraq. in particular, there are reports of kidnappings, forced marriage, slavery, sexual abuse and forced conversion which are targeting in particular the most vulnerable people belonging to ethnic and religious minorities. the eu, in a formal conclusion of the foreign affairs council and the european council, has repeatedly condemned in the strongest terms these brutal acts and calls for the perpetrators of these gross abuses to be held accountable. we therefore strongly support the work of the office of the un high commissioner for human rights, who has launched an investigation on isis human rights abuses in iraq, and the gathering of strong evidence of violations of international human rights and humanitarian law. the iraqi government should now ensure the investigation of all human rights abuses to avoid immunity on all sides and send a strong message on the importance of respecting the rule of law. this will require reform of the criminal justice system and the steady consolidation of a culture of respect for human rights. an independent judiciary giving a sense of equality to all citizens before the law will be a crucial element in the process of national reconciliation, which is a matter of urgency. many human rights violations currently committed in iraq qualify as crimes against humanity. we therefore strongly recommend to the government to accede to the rome statute or at least accept the jurisdiction of the international criminal court over the current situation and article 12(3) of the rome statute. the eu stands ready to continue supporting the major reforms needed in the area of the rule of law and governance in iraq. a new programme for an amount of eur 10 million was started in early september. in addition, the eu is financing a number of assistance programmes more directly related to the protection of women and children, including an ongoing project on establishing a strategy for the protection of women and assisting victims of trafficking and sexual and gender-based violence. on the humanitarian side, the protection of vulnerable groups, including women and children, is a priority for the european union. the needs of the 2.1 million displaced people and refugees are huge. as the number increased, the eu scaled up its relief efforts. the european union humanitarian action will include medical and psychosocial assistance to victims of all kinds of violence, including sexual and gender-based violence. let me conclude by underlining that the eu will continue to support the government of iraq in such challenging times and will increase its efforts to alleviate the suffering of innocent civilian victims of a horrific wave of violence. (applause)
in writing. the armed group of the so-called islamic state (isis) has in recent months claimed responsibility for war crimes including summary killings and mass abductions against members of ethnic and religious minorities, who have seen women as the main victims of these atrocities. they are kidnapped by the thousands by the militants of the isis to be sold or forced to marry the jihadists. these terrorist activities are completely unacceptable. a report by amnesty international openly speaks of "ethnic cleansing of historic proportions". the situation in iraq is far beyond the point of mere concern and calls for decisive action by europe and the entire international community. the commission must act immediately: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. concrete action is needed, appropriate measures must be taken to ensure the safety of women and girls in iraq, as well as members of religious and ethnic minorities.
in writing. i condemn unreservedly the barbaric killings and sexual violence perpetrated by isis fighters in iraq and used as a tool of propaganda and conquest. the violation of women's rights in the country is unacceptable and it is necessary to denounce these abuses. women and their bodies are instruments of war, sexual violence is a weapon of devastation designed to spread a climate of terror. women who are deprived of their integrity suffer serious physical and psychological damage. we must do everything in our power to combat this systematic violation of human rights and international humanitarian law. we need to promote a more just and inclusive society that protects and promotes women's rights. isis has extreme sharia law and imposed a totalitarian view of the muslim religion opposing progress and civilization. we must ensure that, through the ratification of the rome statute by the iraqi government, those responsible for serious war crimes and crimes against humanity do not go unpunished and are held accountable for their actions before the international criminal court. only through reform of the justice system and the spread of a culture of respect can concrete results be achieved.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted no confidence in the juncker commission today for all the reasons set out in the motion of censure which i signed with the spokesmen of the five star movement and 75 other members, but also because of my direct experience in the environment committee of this parliament. i represent the europe for freedom and direct democracy group as coordinator here and all the policies relating to the environment, health and food security are discussed there. the commissioners-designate do not intend to abandon the use of fossil and fixed sources in these matters, with the support of those in italy who want to double oil extraction and the harmful impact on the health of citizens. they are therefore not committed to reducing the harmful emissions of the businesses of a united europe. the new commissioner-in-office, jean-claude juncker, also intends to scrap the few promising legislative initiatives, such as the ban on the use of non-recyclable plastic bags or those that are aimed at criminalising them.
in writing. today, 27 november 2014, my colleagues have renewed their confidence in the commission as a whole and in its president, jean-claude juncker. we in the five star movement put forward the motion of censure because we do not believe that juncker or the commission as a whole are capable of pursuing the interests of the european citizens. the lux leaks scandal only gave more coverage to news that was already known. it is not new that states such as luxembourg, austria, belgium and ireland, in exercising their fiscal sovereignty, have practiced forms of tax competition which have favoured large multinationals and created an estimated € 1 000 billion in damage. these attitudes are contrary to the interests of the eu and its citizens and to the spirit of european solidarity. beyond juncker's words, what counts are the facts, and they do not speak in his favour, nor do his past and that of commissioners such as hill and cañete. the european citizens are tired of the fine words and promises and are demanding radical change! for all these reasons, my colleagues from the five star movement and i voted unanimously in favour of this motion of censure.
in writing. i have in any case supported this motion of censure first by my signature on its submission and then by a vote in favour. if today, as president of the new european commission, jean-claude juncker preaches ethics and morality in european finance, let us not forget that when he was prime minister of luxembourg he ran a system which, by facilitating banks and multinationals, stole millions of euros from taxes destined for the member states' coffers. these are the facts, and all the rhetoric that will be used to cover them up will not erase them. the new european commission has lost all credibility.
in writing. i rejected the motion of censure against the commission because i believe that the president of the commission must first defend himself before being presumed guilty.
in writing. i voted in favour. juncker is not credible; the tax evasion mechanisms when he was prime minister were aimed at increasing the profits of industrial groups and banking institutions. how dare he now propose himself as the champion against the growth crisis in europe?
in writing. today i voted against this motion of censure. i believe that it is not worthwhile to show any hesitation, even an initial one, in demonstrating the juncker commission's full robustness, reliability, efficiency and accountability to the eu communities, and therefore i will not create any obstacles to the start of the next investment plan which is expected to mobilise 315 billion. i cannot give anything in return for euroscepticism and euro-phobia. i am confident that jean claude juncker will be able to demonstrate, beyond all expectations, a fully europeanist vision, by curbing in person, with serious regulatory interventions, the phenomenon of companies making profits and not paying taxes and of multinationals making private agreements with certain countries. it will be able to take a firm and decisive stand against tax evasion, as many are calling for, and to launch without delay a genuine tax harmonization of the member states, which will strengthen economic unity and increase transparency, including through the publication of the budgets of multinationals. finally, i join those who, for the sake of transparency and equality, expect the european commission, as stated by the commissioner for competition, margrethe vestager, to be independent, to investigate quickly and to give concrete answers on the grand duchy.
in writing. i too voted in favour of the motion of confidence in juncker. such a motion of censure at the beginning of the mandate and with the reasons given is a real act of irresponsibility towards european citizens and businesses. i really hope that this will be used as an opportunity to take a big step towards harmonizing the tax systems of the 28 countries. no one before juncker had shown such determination in affirming the need to develop a fiscal union. the situation as it stands today, with 28 tax systems in ruthless competition with each other, is not only counterproductive but cannot work in the long term because it is detrimental to some member states in favour of others. i have asked the council and the commission to take immediate concrete steps - each within its own sphere of competence - towards harmonizing the tax systems of the 28 on the road indicated by mr juncker. it's time to be ambitious and brave. we must not lose the opportunity to turn these ideas put forward by the president of the commission into policy proposals in the interests of all 500 million european citizens. in this way we will take another important step towards political integration, which can no longer be delayed, in order to get out of the crisis.
in writing. i can only sign and vote in favour of this motion of censure on the european commission. it should be noted that the aggressive tax avoidance was approved by the luxembourg tax authority at a time when the new president of the commission, jean-claude juncker, was prime minister of the grand duchy. the tax avoidance agreements concluded between companies and the grand duchy of luxembourg may raise moral and ethical issues for millions of citizens who are currently facing the worst economic crisis of modern times. i believe that a person responsible for creating, implementing, governing and monitoring these aggressive tax avoidance policies does not have the credibility to serve the citizens as president of the european commission. for all the reasons mentioned above and many others, i cannot trust jean-claude juncker.
in writing. i voted against the motion of censure on the juncker commission tabled by some of my colleagues. i voted against because it would have been irresponsible to sink the new european commission the day after the presentation of the juncker plan on investment. with all its limitations, i believe that the announcement of this plan constitutes a first but significant and symbolic change of direction in europe's economic policies, moving beyond mere austerity and towards a new policy of growth and employment, as the democratic party delegation and the s&d group have been calling for. it is clear that the decision to vote against the motion of censure will in no way lower the level of vigilance in the luxleak case: we are waiting for the results of the investigations announced by mr juncker himself in this chamber, which we want to be rigorous and thorough. moreover, beyond any possible illegality, we will continue to call loudly for a real change in european fiscal policies to overcome once and for all a situation of de facto tax dumping within the european market which is no longer tolerable in a europe which wants to regain its credibility and international competitiveness.
in writing. i am certainly voting in favour of the motion of censure on the commission. as i have said on many occasions, this commission is the continuation of a failed european policy which is unfortunately supported by the vast majority of members.
in writing. - i have confirmed my support for the european commission, led by president juncker, because i believe it is a great team, with the skills and abilities needed to bring europe back to life. the programme presented to us is focused on growth, development and job creation, which i fully share. the new juncker plan is proof of this, demonstrating the potential for very short-term investment to speed up the exit from the crisis.
in writing. i voted against the motion of censure on the new juncker commission for reasons of consistency with my vote last month, but above all to renew my support and that of the whole of the epp for the programme that the new commission intends to implement. a commission democratically elected by a large majority, which has again received the support of this parliament, to tackle and solve the problems of growth and employment through political debate and economic planning.
in writing. - the introduction of a motion of censure against the commission, chaired by jean claude juncker, who had just taken office, was, in my view, a mere act of provocation by a deeply populist fringe in the european parliament. the motion of censure is certainly a democratic instrument. however, it should not be used for propaganda purposes, as in this case. for these reasons i voted against a document which has no political content and is intended solely to attack the highly respected figure of president juncker.
in writing. - i shall vote in favour of the motion of censure against president juncker. the deep crisis in europe calls for a radical change of course. this change can only be achieved if it is built on the sound ethical qualities and keen political foresight of the individuals in the commission's top roles. the luxleaks scandal has shown that juncker is completely unsuited to the role of president of the european executive.
in writing. i voted against the motion of censure against the european commission and its president, jean-claude junker, because there is no indictment, but i believe that the time has come to harmonize the tax systems of all the member states and i hope that the new junker commission will be able to take up this battle of great economic and social value.
in writing. - i co-signed and voted for the motion of censure because i consider it unacceptable that this commission, the institution which by definition represents the general european interest, has been chosen and is being led by someone who for over twenty years has done nothing but trample on that interest, turning the grand duchy of luxembourg into the biggest tax haven and the biggest protectorate of the mega tax evaders in europe, with gigantic damage to the other european partners. in luxembourg, the multinational giants have found a safe haven for billions of dollars that could have been used to finance investments and public services in partner countries instead of enriching the grand duchy. unfortunately, today the majority of this parliament, a compact majority, wanted to reiterate its support for juncker and his commission. one group voted against censorship, not because they disagree with us, but because they prefer not to be politically associated with parties whose ideological position they do not share. the other is that, in the interests of all, it does not want to postpone the start of the commission's work. however, by rejecting the censorship, he only showed that he has another kind of interests: the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union is not left to the mercy of the multinationals and the big powers, but not to the mercy of europe and its citizens.
in writing. we can be satisfied that we have finally exposed those who claim to be against tax avoidance, evasion and tax havens, but who in fact confirm their confidence in one of the leading experts and advocates of these policies, namely the former luxembourg prime minister juncker. these are probably the same people who also believe that juncker has divine powers to turn 20 billion into over 300: perhaps they have confused brussels with the lake of tiberias. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but as i said on monday, we are in the temple of european hypocrisy, as the gue colleagues showed today, waving banners in the chamber against tax havens, but then not voting on our motion. in any case, we shall continue our fight on this front, and from today it is clear to everyone that we are the only ones who are really credible, even in europe.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text because i believe that it is necessary to be able to provide the body which supervises the european banking supervisory mechanism with resources.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution. the board should have a budget that is independent from the eu budget and that is financed through contributions from the banking sector, in particular through contributions to the administrative expenses of the board to be paid by credit institutions, parent undertakings, investment firms and financial institutions covered by the single resolution mechanism regulation.
in writing. on 14 july 2014, the council formally adopted regulation (eu) no 806/2014 establishing a single resolution mechanism for failing banks, and thereby created the single resolution board and the single resolution fund. the board shall be a decision-making body responsible for initiating and managing the resolution procedures of credit institutions. of course, to make this committee fully operational as a future european union agency from 1 january 2015, it will need to have an autonomous budget. i personally agree with the allocation of funds to cover the initial administrative costs to facilitate the proper functioning of this decision-making body.
in writing. article 42 of regulation (eu) no 806/2014 provides for the establishment of a single resolution board in the form of a european union agency, which shall have an autonomous budget, which shall not form part of the union budget and which shall be financed by contributions from the banking sector, in particular by contributions to the administrative expenses of the board to be paid by credit institutions, parent undertakings, investment firms and financial institutions subject to the single resolution mechanism regulation. i voted in favour of this resolution because the committee must have the necessary financial mechanisms in place as soon as possible so that it can cover the first administrative expenditure from its own resources and avoid burdening public resources.
in writing. in favour of the report as we believe it is right that the board should have an autonomous budget, which is not part of the union budget and which is financed by contributions from the banking sector, in particular by contributions to the administrative expenses of the board which are to be paid by credit institutions, parent undertakings, investment firms and financial institutions covered by the single resolution mechanism regulation.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of this recommendation because i believe that the single resolution committee must necessarily have an autonomous budget, which is therefore separate from the union budget. since it is to start operating on 1 january 2015, it is necessary that it should be able to have the relevant financing mechanisms in place as soon as possible.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution. the board must necessarily have a budget that is independent from the eu budget and that is financed by contributions from the banking sector, in particular by contributions to the administrative expenses of the board, which are to be paid by credit institutions, parent undertakings, investment firms and financial institutions covered by the single resolution mechanism regulation.
in writing. - in view of the fact that the single resolution board must necessarily have an autonomous budget, separate from the union budget, financed by contributions from the banking sector, and considering that, in order to ensure its proper functioning as from 1 january 2015, it is necessary that it should be able to have the relevant financing mechanisms in place as soon as possible, i considered it appropriate to express my support for the recommendation, which does not raise any objections to the delegated regulation.
in writing. i voted in favour of the commission delegated regulation on the provisional system of advances on contributions to cover the administrative expenses of the single resolution board during the provisional period because it is all part of the ordinary procedure and parliament and the council would have raised objections if necessary. in addition, in order to ensure the proper functioning of the committee, it is necessary that it should have the necessary financing mechanisms in place as soon as possible to carry out its activities.
in writing. cohesion policy for the period 2007-2013 has not achieved the goal of harmonious development, which is the responsibility of both the eu and the regions of many member states. the serious shortcomings identified, such as the insufficient and distorted use of the resources allocated in relation to the ambitious objectives set and poor quality control and programming instruments which automatically proved ineffective, seem to have been re-proposed identically since the start of the new phase. the fact that many regions are far behind in making their payments and even in submitting their operational programmes is aggravating the situation and raises the awareness that major measures must be taken to prevent such degenerative trends from recurring in the future. i am voting in favour of this motion and i will continue in my duties to encourage improvement, to monitor and report on the situation.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution which not only denounces the delays in the implementation of cohesion policy 2014-2020 but also underlines the seriousness of the situation where there is still a backlog of payments of some eur 23 billion for the 2007-2013 programming period.
in writing. rationalizing and simplifying cohesion policy is a priority that cannot be deferred in order to use funds efficiently and quickly. cohesion funds are a proven and fundamental catalyst for growth and jobs in the eu countries. this can be further strengthened at this stage if coordinated with the commission's package of extraordinary investments. despite the enormous potential of the resources available, however, we are seeing a significant delay in the adoption of the operational plans and the implementation of the cohesion policy for the period 2014-2020, due to the limits of the multiannual financial framework and the slow programming process. just over 100 programmes will be adopted by the end of the year. a revision of the multiannual financial framework is therefore necessary to facilitate the implementation of the operational programmes. that is why i support this resolution.
in writing. i voted for this report because i believe that we must remind the commission of its duty to effectively plan and organise programmes and funding for cohesion policy for the current programming period.
in writing. i voted in favour. i share the criticism of the delays in the implementation of cohesion policy 2014-2020. i agree with the underlining of the existence of a backlog of payments of some eur 23 billion for the 2007-13 programming period. i agree with the observation that these delays are causing problems for national and regional authorities.
in writing. - delays in the launch of new operational programmes for the period 2014-2020 are a growing concern. i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution because the delays which are accumulating in the programming of the european structural funds for 2014-2020 risk throwing the community machinery into disarray in many regions in the main beneficiary countries, such as poland, spain and italy, with the serious danger of having to reopen the discussion on the financial perspectives which were painstakingly approved a year ago. the 2014-2020 programmes are an investment in the future and an investment in europe: cohesion policy is entrusted with the crucial task of reducing member states' territorial development gaps in relation to the europe 2020 priorities and targets. i think the commission should speed up its programming and have more stringent performance monitoring instruments in order to better allocate the resources needed to secure new investments.
in writing. the delays in the definition of the multiannual financial framework are unfortunately delaying the implementation of cohesion policy for the period 2014-2020. in a time of severe and profound economic crisis such as the one we are experiencing, it is essential that cohesion policy be activated as soon as possible, not only to redistribute public funding but also because, for many regions, the structural funds represent the only resources to programme local development and trigger economic recovery processes. on monday afternoon commissioner creţu informed us that he is proceeding rapidly with the approval of operational programmes and i hope that this will continue. in voting today's resolution i join the house in calling on the commission to increase its efforts to launch cohesion policy quickly, including by streamlining the procedures for approving operational programmes, but above all i hope very much that all possibilities for avoiding delays in payments will be explored.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text because i believe that delays in cohesion policy 2014-2020 can seriously damage the already fragile economic situation of europe's regions. cohesion policy is now the main investment instrument throughout the union and must be seen as an essential means of economic recovery and growth. further postponing the adoption of operational programmes would be tantamount to irresponsibly delaying the launch of cohesion policy 2014-2020, which, as already mentioned, is the financial instrument par excellence capable of ensuring the revival of europe's regions and, consequently, the growth of employment and the reduction of poverty and social exclusion.
in writing. i voted in favour because i think that delays in the implementation of cohesion policy 2014-2020 may further aggravate the already difficult european economic situation. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. cohesion policy, with a budget of over €350 billion until 2020, is the main investment policy in the real economy at eu level and an excellent engine for growth in europe. i voted in favour of this resolution in order to urge the commission and the member states to show a sense of responsibility and to do everything in their power to accelerate the adoption of the maximum number of operational programmes already in 2014 and to ensure that as many programmes as possible are 'ready for adoption' by 31 december 2014, in order to benefit from the carry-over procedure, in accordance with article 13 (2) (a) of the financial regulation and article 4 of its implementing rules. the commission should streamline its internal procedures to ensure that operational programmes resubmitted after the deadline of 17 november 2014 are also taken into account in order to conclude the inter-service consultation by the end of the year and are treated as ready for adoption if they meet the quality requirements.
in writing. the implementation of cohesion policy was due to start in 2014: in fact, under regulation (eu) no 1303/2013, the implementation and adoption of the partnership agreements and the operational programmes were foreseen by the end of august 2014 and the end of january 2015 respectively. the commission has already adopted a number of proposals for the future of the european union, including the european regional development fund (erdf) and the european regional development fund (erdf). i voted in favour of this resolution in order to speed up the process of adopting the operational programmes by 2014, in order to ensure that they are adopted by the member states and their regions as soon as possible.
in writing. i am voting in favour of this resolution as it denounces the delays in the implementation of cohesion policy 2014-2020 and highlights how these delays are causing problems for national and regional authorities.
in writing. there is a clear delay, so only a limited number of operational programmes will be adopted by 2014 (about 100 out of over 300). for italy, we hope that a good number of operational programmes can be ready by the deadline of 31 december 2014. it will be very important for the commission to do its utmost to also speed up its internal procedures for approving the ops so that the unavoidable use of the revision of the multiannual financial framework under regulation 1303/2013 is started swiftly and completed in time ensuring that the entire allocation for italy for 2014 is available in full and on time. i voted in favour because i hope that the commission, together with parliament and the member states, will be able to find the most appropriate response to overcome the long-term problems and effectively accelerate the implementation of the programming. we are waiting for the commission to give us more details on how it intends to launch the task force it announced yesterday, informing parliament of the future agenda. in view of the new programming period 2014-2020, i am sure that concrete and transparent measures will be taken, not punitive decisions, such as the reduction of public co-financing, but rather initiatives aimed at creating constructive synergies between the different actors acting on the territory.
in writing. - we are all aware of the fundamental role played by the eu's cohesion policy in the development of our territories. unfortunately, national or regional authorities are not always able to make the best use of the resources europe makes available to reduce the development gaps between the different member states. this is becoming more apparent with the start of the new programming for the period 2014-2020, which is expected to be delayed. i therefore support the text of this report, which calls on the member states to speed up the timetable for the programming of new resources.
in writing. the delays in cohesion policy 2014-2020 are seriously damaging the already fragile economic situation of europe's regions. further postponing the adoption of operational programmes would be to irresponsibly delay the start of cohesion policy 2014-2020. that is why i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. - cohesion policy mobilises funding totalling €351 billion. the funds related to it represent about one third of the eu budget for the period 2014-2020. it makes a clear contribution to growth and job creation in many member states. that is why i voted in favour of the resolution calling for an acceleration of cohesion policy for the new programming period 2014-2020.
in writing. cohesion policy is the main form of investment that the eu implements to support growth and jobs. in a time of severe crisis such as the one we are experiencing, it is all the more strategic to restart the engine of the real economy. in line with the europe 2020 objectives, the over 350 billion in the envelope has been earmarked for the targeted implementation of a limited number of strategic objectives such as innovation and research, training and education, the digital agenda, support for smes, the green economy and infrastructure. given the high potential of these objectives, any slowdown in the programming process is a threat to recovery. the delays are already there: only just over 100 operational programmes will be adopted by 2014. this is already being aggravated by delays in payments of some eur 23 billion for the period 2007-13. the commission must speed up the implementation of the programmes, ensuring both their quality and their protection against fraud, in order to restore credibility and effectiveness to cohesion policy as soon as possible.
in writing. i voted in favour of this too because i believe that the delay in implementing cohesion policy 2014-2020 is excessive and will lead to a significant slowdown in the implementation of new programmes. i understand the desire to adopt high-level operational programmes to avoid a subsequent reprogramming which would create further delays, but in a complex and difficult period such as the one we are living through, it is absolutely necessary to implement the new programmes as soon as possible in order to give a new impetus to investment, to increase productivity and to create new jobs. the commission and all the member states have a great responsibility towards the european citizens and must commit themselves to ensuring that as many operational programmes as possible are adopted in a short time.
in writing. - i have decided to vote in favour of this resolution because: - denounces the delays in the implementation of cohesion policy 2014-2020; - stresses the seriousness of the fact that payments of some eur 23 billion for the 2007-2013 programming period are still overdue; - recalls that these delays are causing problems for national and regional authorities; - calls for the eur 300 billion investment plan proposed by juncker to be complementary to the 2014-2020 cohesion policy;
in writing. i think it is right to carry out an impact assessment on the effectiveness, burden, subsidiarity and proportionality of eu legislation. if an external advisory body, perhaps more in touch with the real world than the commission, contributes to the inquiry, that is even better. however, the new commission has not yet made it clear how it intends to proceed with refit, and i therefore abstained.
in writing. i abstained. it is right to carry out an impact assessment on the effectiveness, burden, subsidiarity and proportionality of eu legislation. if an external advisory body is involved, it may be that it is more in touch with the real world than the commission, and that is a good thing. however, the new commission has not yet made clear how it intends to proceed with refit.
in writing. i voted today in favour of the motion for a resolution on the commission's guidelines on impact assessment. impact assessments are carried out to predict the likely impact of eu legislation on citizens and the economy as a whole. yet they are often controversial and opaque. i believe that a major challenge for the new european commission is to separate its impact assessment mechanisms from the political imperatives that too often guide the development of its proposals and to rely instead on mere scientific evidence. there are countless examples of european policy makers bickering over scientific evidence, including highly technical issues. i believe that a new system of evidence gathering within the commission itself is therefore needed, one which completely disconnects the gathering of evidence from the political imperative. the creation of a special department within the commission, with the role of evaluating policy proposals on the basis of pure scientific evidence, would be important to ensure that the commission's evaluations are efficient, independent and transparent.
in writing. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution on better regulation of european smes. given the need to keep the principle of 'thinking small first' in mind, the european institutions in general and the european commission in particular should endeavour to make legislation more responsive to the needs of smes, which, due to their size and capacity, have greater difficulties than large firms in complying with legal and administrative obligations. the first thing to do is to avoid that smes are penalized or disproportionately affected and to focus on the quality of legislation. not only that. the european commission should also continue to use the impact assessment tool for all legislative proposals with a significant economic, social and environmental impact, as well as for non-legislative proposals defining future european policies and for delegated or implementing acts.
in writing. i am voting in favour of this resolution because i believe that impact assessments, as a tool to be used in the early stages of policy-making, play a key role in the commission's programme for smart regulation, with the aim of providing transparent, comprehensive and balanced information on the nature of the problem to be addressed, the added value of eu intervention, and the costs and benefits of alternative solutions for all stakeholders.
in writing. it is right to carry out an impact assessment on the effectiveness, burden, subsidiarity and proportionality of eu legislation. however, the new commission has not yet made it clear how it intends to proceed with refit and therefore i shall abstain.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of the report by mr markus pieper because i believe that impact assessments play a strategic role in the decision-making process of the european union by providing transparent information on the issues dealt with. i also think that impact assessments are very important for smes, which often have problems adapting to new legislation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the pieper report because i believe that impact assessments are a fundamental tool for ensuring the quality of legislation. they play a key role in the eu's decision-making process by providing transparent and balanced information on the issues dealt with. i also believe that impact assessments are particularly beneficial for smes, which sometimes have greater difficulties in adapting to new legislation.
in writing. periodic review of the impact assessment guidelines is certainly necessary and useful to improve the procedures in this area and i welcome the commission's commitment in this direction. i hope, of course, that the impact assessments will be carried out with the utmost precision, in a rigorous, independent and comprehensive manner, with the final objective of the proposal clearly in mind. but let us remember, and i want to stress this, that evaluations are used to make political decisions with greater awareness, but they should not replace them.
in writing. - i decided to abstain because i believe that it is right to carry out an impact assessment on the effectiveness, burden, subsidiarity and proportionality of eu legislation, but i would also have preferred an external consultative body to contribute to this, perhaps one more in touch with the real world than the commission. however, the new commission has not yet made clear how it intends to proceed with refit.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today, on the occasion of the 25th anniversary of the united nations convention on the rights of the child, the european parliament has strongly reaffirmed the absolute need to protect children and to ensure that the policies of the union are geared to ensuring their protection and well-being. celebrating anniversaries is not a ritual choice, much less a repetitive aspect. it helps to take stock of the situation, in our case to check how much of the demanding document on children's rights, after 25 years, has been implemented, with what quantitative but above all qualitative results, and more explicitly how much of the stated indications has become reality, where, how, with what impact on culture, legislation, services, supports to children and their families. unfortunately, there's still a lot to do. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to promote the rights of children and young people. i must point out that, from my point of view, unfortunately, the text of the resolution, which i also voted for, ...
in writing. the alarming data on the continuing violations of children's rights perpetrated in every part of the world, reflecting deplorable acts and situations that the international community as a whole should have long ago eradicated, once again confirm that international legal standards have been, and continue to be, consistently disregarded. my vote will be in favour of this resolution. i am aware, however, that the statutes of principle alone are wholly insufficient to ensure effective and practical protection of individuals in the age of innocence, if they are not accompanied by the daily action of the institutions responsible at every level to make their respect mandatory and indispensable.
in writing. i can only join the chorus of celebrations for the 25th anniversary of the convention on the rights of the child. i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that we have done well in this area so far, but we must do more!
in writing. i naturally voted in favour of this text because we must, within the european union, have a particularly progressive approach to children's rights. in particular, we must protect the best interests of the child and we call on our partners, such as the united states, to ratify this document.
in writing. i voted in favour. after the most controversial points, you can join the chorus of celebrations of the convention on the rights of the child. we have done well so far, but we must do more!
in writing. today i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the 25th anniversary of the un convention on the rights of the child, which allows us to take stock of the great strides made, for example on child mortality and access to education, but at the same time to analyse how much more needs to be done. children are a fundamental part of our society, representing the future and the hope of families, communities and nations. the european union cannot therefore tolerate and must strongly condemn the exploitation of child labour, the presence of child soldiers in war zones and the fact that 57 million children are unable to go to school. i therefore hope that the european commission will seize the opportunity of the mid-term review of the financial framework to ensure that eu funds finance more instruments to help the most disadvantaged and vulnerable children.
in writing. it has been 25 years since the un general assembly adopted the un convention on the rights of the child and adolescent. it comprises 54 articles on the subjects of life, protection and development, and is based on the principles of non-discrimination, the well-being and the hearing of the child. the convention changed the way we see children. for the first time, childhood was defined as a protected age. children are considered to be fully-fledged individuals with their own opinions and the right to express them. in the light of the convention's extraordinary importance and the commitment to children of the 194 states that have ratified it, we can offer a positive picture of the progress achieved by the convention. reducing child mortality, the right to education, vaccinations, reducing hiv, birth registration and reducing child labour are among the many advances made by the convention. the greatest progress has been made in africa and asia in the area of the right to life and development. this anniversary is an occasion to celebrate the great strides made, but it must also be a reminder of how much more remains to be done.
in writing. the millennium development goals are the main priority of the internal policies of the european union and the member states in their relations with third countries. these objectives, in particular poverty eradication, universal access to education and gender equality, will only be achieved through the development of public services accessible to all. the commission should ensure greater coordination across services in order to effectively integrate children's rights into all legislative proposals, policies and financial decisions of the european union and to monitor full compliance with the european union acquis on children and obligations under the united nations convention on the rights of the child. for all these reasons, and to ensure that the commission ensures that the mandate and resources of the coordinator for children's rights adequately reflect the european union's commitment to systematically and effectively mainstreaming children's rights in its policies, i could not but vote in favour of this resolution. i also vote in favour of urging the member states to implement the rules laid down in the united nations convention on the rights of the child for children deprived of parental care.
in writing. it is now 25 years since the adoption of the united nations convention on the rights of the child and adolescent on 20 november 1989. the convention has been credited with bringing about a 'cultural revolution' in the legal system, by recognising the child not only as a subject of protection and assistance but also as a person of law, and therefore as the holder of rights in the first person. i voted in favour of this resolution because this anniversary has certainly made it possible to celebrate the great strides made in defending the rights of the world's smallest children, but at the same time it has made us reflect on how much more remains to be done.
in writing. i vote in favour of the report, noting that the convention on the rights of the child is a fundamental step in the history of our time and that it is right and proper to commit ourselves to doing more.
in writing. on 20 november 1989, the representatives of the world's nations, meeting in the un general assembly, unanimously approved the text of the international convention on the rights of the child. we have all voted in favour of the resolution on the 25th anniversary of the united nations convention on the rights of the child. it is widely understood and accepted that the first commitment of those who have the honour of being the protagonists of decision-making processes must be to children. yet we cannot yet say for certain that in the 191 states that have ratified the convention children enjoy all the rights listed, from the right to life to the right to development. and that is why, to emphasize the road that still lies ahead, the commitment to be made, i voted in favour of this resolution. i hope that the efforts made by all the eu countries to ratify the convention will serve as an example and a stimulus for the united states, with which we are negotiating ttip today, to give a signal of openness so that the convention can be ratified.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of this resolution because it calls on the european commission to offer more support to children who are victims of violence, abuse, exploitation, social exclusion, religious, sexual, ethnic discrimination, etc. unfortunately, the rights of children continue to be violated in many parts of the world, including the european union, which is why i consider this resolution particularly important.
in writing. i voted in favour of the above motion for a resolution because i believe that the rights of children should be at the heart of european union policies. the 25th anniversary of the united nations convention on the rights of the child is an opportunity to take further steps to ensure that the rights of every child, in particular the most vulnerable, are respected everywhere.
in writing. - 25 years have passed since the adoption of the un convention on the rights of the child. despite much progress over time, children's rights continue to be violated in various parts of the world, including the european union. many children continue to be victims of violence, abuse, exploitation, social exclusion, religious, sexual, ethnic discrimination and so on. it is for these reasons that i felt it necessary to express my support for a resolution which strongly and decisively calls on the european commission to provide greater moral and economic support to disadvantaged children.
in writing. i believe that children's rights and the protection of minors in all its forms must be given priority in all eu actions and policies. the 25th anniversary of the united nations convention on the rights of the child, for which i voted in favour, is a good opportunity to ensure the full implementation of additional measures to guarantee and strengthen respect for the rights of every child, especially those in extremely vulnerable situations. as the resolution says, i very much hope that the commission will present an ambitious and comprehensive strategy and action plan on children's rights for the coming years based on the eu's children's agenda and that there will be closer cooperation with the united nations and unicef. i also hope that the necessary arrangements will be made to enable the eu to accede unilaterally to the un convention on the rights of the child.
in writing. - i decided to vote in favour because, despite the most controversial points, one can join the chorus of celebrations for the 25th anniversary of the convention on the rights of the child.
in writing. despite the adoption of the un convention on the rights of the child 25 years ago, there are still many problems relating to the protection of children, both in europe and beyond. the european union must therefore make a strong effort to promote the rights of all children who are victims of armed conflict, of children who are victims of sexual violence or forced to work, of children who have been forced to flee their homes, of children who are victims of natural disasters or who are growing up without their rights being respected. the european institutions, member states, local authorities, social partners and civil society must join forces and work together at all levels to improve the situation of children in the eu and the rest of the world. on the occasion of the 25th anniversary of the un convention on the rights of the child, as on every day of the year, it is important that the international community works with commitment and consistency so that every child can enjoy his or her rights.
in writing. using the numbers at their disposal, s&d and ppe tabled and voted a resolution on the digital single market. this is a resolution which, although formally it appears to be aimed at defending consumer rights, targeting integrated operators such as google and thereby promoting competition, has several obscure features. firstly, it does not provide an explicit, clear and precise definition of net neutrality, thus leaving the door open to possible deviations from this principle, which many consider to be indispensable and fundamental. secondly, contrary to the position adopted by the european parliament in a resolution of september 2013 which stated the need to phase out roaming charges by 2015, there is a clear step backwards. in fact, the abolition of roaming charges has been postponed for some unknown reason, perhaps to meet lobbying pressures. other aspects (copyright, cloud computing, cybercrime and non-discrimination) also needed to be clarified. the five star movement, which is in favour of digital and consumer fundamental rights, consistently voted against this resolution, which was put forward by socialists and popular groups to promote lobbying.
in writing. i voted against this text because i do not share its overly optimistic estimates of the potential impact in terms of gdp and jobs of online commerce and network development, and i do not agree with its excessive references to the role and merits of the european institutions in the development of this sector.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text because i consider it essential that we develop the virtual single market. this must be done equally for all territories and for all people. security and protection of personal data must also be at the heart of any development.
in writing. i voted against. i do not agree with some of the points in the text which was voted on, including: 1) overly optimistic estimates of the potential impact in terms of gdp and jobs from online trade and network development; 2) excessive references to the role of the european institutions and to the merits of the union's internal market, which are in fact not acceptable.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe it is essential to remove all existing obstacles to the development of the digital single market, ensuring a level playing field for companies operating in the digital single market to give them the opportunity to compete. i therefore ask the commission to apply the eu competition rules correctly in order to avoid abuses of dominant positions. more choice is needed in the data and search engine markets because monopolies harm consumers and weaken competition, which is crucial for market growth, access and consumer choice. in addition, a new data protection package is needed to ensure a high level of protection of personal data, user safety and control over their personal data. i therefore ask the commission to allocate the necessary resources to combat cybercrime at community level. the issue of copyright also needs to be addressed by the commission, which must ensure an efficient framework for the protection of intellectual property rights that is geared to the realities of the digital economy, striking the right balance between the interests of users, intellectual property issues and works on the internet.
in writing. the digital single market is one of the most innovative and constantly evolving sectors, a source of economic growth thanks to the development of electronic commerce and of positive change in the quality of life of citizens. we are well aware that digital technologies by their very nature know no borders, and the european union must therefore ensure that this market is completed as soon as possible, not only by eliminating the digital divide between the various member states but also by strengthening the regulatory framework relating to the protection of personal data, the protection of copyright and intellectual property rights. it is also essential to create healthy competition between firms operating in the digital sector, avoiding discrimination, restrictions or interference of any kind. that said, i can only be in favour of improving this market and of investments, especially if they are aimed at opening up access to digital content to disabled people, in accordance with international regulations which should be adopted and implemented as soon as possible.
in writing. the digital single market is one of the evolving areas that could offer the potential for high efficiency gains, which could contribute to europe's recovery from the crisis. the full application of european competition rules in the digital single market will be decisive for market growth, consumer access and choice and long-term competitiveness. however, i could not vote in favour of this resolution because the rejection of our amendments does not in fact guarantee net neutrality and the abolition of roaming charges.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on consumer rights in the digital single market. this text has the merit of providing a clear and comprehensive roadmap for the development of a true digital single market within the european union that fully involves citizens and serves consumers. in order to unlock the full potential of the digital sector for development, economic growth and social inclusion, however, the many remaining barriers need to be removed and the current fragmentation overcome. in particular, work will be needed at the legislative level to tackle the still existing digital divide, to ensure the full inclusion of all citizens and their rights without any discrimination, to increase the level of network and information security and to ensure effective competition between economic operators.
in writing. the digital agenda must become a priority for the european union, because the completion of a digital single market will be a great means for job and business growth. the eu's internal market has been a huge engine of development over the past 20 years and, in the face of the current economic crisis, it is necessary to rely on it to boost competitiveness and the economy. i supported this resolution because i am convinced that betting on the digitalisation of the business environment and on a digital economy is the right choice to restart growth and employment in europe.
in writing. normally, the imco texts are favourable to us on this subject. but this time i cannot support the report because it gives overly optimistic estimates of the potential impact in terms of gdp and jobs of online trade and network development and because of excessive references to the role of the european institutions and the merits of the union's internal market.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of this resolution because i believe that the digital single market must be properly regulated in the light of the economic, social and cultural benefits it could bring to all community citizens. the proposal provides for the adoption of a package to ensure adequate protection of users and a stable regulatory environment in which companies operating in the sector can grow.
in writing. the digital single market is one of the most innovative economic sectors and plays a key role in the competitiveness of the european economy. in addition to contributing to economic growth through the development of electronic commerce, it provides a level playing field for businesses operating in the digital single market, giving them the opportunity to be more competitive.
in writing. - the digital single market not only offers economic benefits, but also has a profound impact on the political, social and cultural life of community citizens. i therefore believe that it should be regulated appropriately. that is why i supported this motion for a resolution, which calls for the adoption of an updated data protection package, which ensures, on the one hand, adequate protection for users and, on the other, a stable regulatory environment in which companies operating in the sector can grow.
in writing. we believe that the digital single market is one of the most innovative and driving economic sectors, capable of playing a key role in the competitiveness and growth of the european economy. it is therefore highly desirable that, through continuous efforts to implement and enforce the existing regulations, all existing obstacles to the development of a digital single market in the european union should be removed as part of a comprehensive strategy. in this respect, we urge the council to make rapid progress and to overcome the impasse created during the negotiations with parliament on the proposal for a regulation laying down measures relating to the european single market for electronic communications, as this would effectively end roaming charges within the eu, ensure greater legal certainty as regards net neutrality and improve consumer protection in the digital single market.
in writing. as can be seen, the digital single market is one of the most innovative and evolving sectors we have and it plays a driving role in europe's competitiveness and influences the political, social and everyday lives of eu citizens. that is why i am in favour, as the report says, of policies which give greater support to the rights of consumers who are the end users. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment. finally, i hope that the resolution's demands will be respected and that the updated data protection package will be adopted soon, so as to ensure consumer confidence with a stable regulatory framework.
in writing. - i have decided to vote against for the following two reasons: overly optimistic estimates of the potential impact in terms of gdp and jobs of online trade and network development and overly emphasis on the role of the european institutions and the merits of the union's internal market.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, last week the international conference on nutrition organized by the fao was held in rome. the figures are impressive: 805 million people in the world suffer from chronic hunger; 161 million children under the age of five are stunted because of this; 44.5% of the 6.9 million child deaths are due to malnutrition. i believe that the european union can strengthen its action at international level and further mobilize resources and long-term investment, in collaboration with actors such as un agencies, the g8 and g20, international organizations and non-governmental organizations, and still call on the states that joined expo 2015 to initiate initiatives that lead to binding commitments and targets to fight hunger and malnutrition through diversified strategies, from sustainable agriculture to cooperation.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution by the committee on development, which deals with the issue of child malnutrition in developing countries, using arguments which are widely shared.
in writing. i voted in favour. these are often statements which are self-contained, but the content poses no problem for convincing support.
in writing. i voted today in favour of the motion for a resolution on child malnutrition in developing countries. i think it is unacceptable that 225 million children under the age of five are still suffering from malnutrition or stunting as a result of malnutrition and that in the developing countries malnutrition causes the death of 2.6 million children every year. while children in poorer areas are starving, more and more children in richer areas are obese. this paradox should make the european commission reflect, which should develop serious policies against food waste and coordinate the mobilization of greater resources to combat malnutrition involving other players such as the united nations, the g8, the g20 and emerging countries. i also believe that to combat such a deep-rooted problem the european commission must develop integrated and long-term actions to encourage governments in countries at risk of a nutritional emergency to promote reforms that enable small farmers to produce efficiently to ensure sufficient food for their families.
in writing. the conclusions of the second international conference on nutrition held in rome last week reminded us that over 800 million people are chronically hungry, and over 200 million of them are children under the age of five. malnutrition was still the number one cause of child mortality in the world in 2013. in the face of this continuing tragedy, i believe that we must be very rigorous in identifying its true causes and just as rigorous and consistent in drawing the appropriate consequences. i believe that one of the causes is the great disproportion in developing countries between agricultural resources for export, often to the benefit of foreign companies, and resources for the internal market for subsistence purposes. the resolution, based on the observation that food production would be sufficient to feed the entire world population, identifies and calls for a number of important measures which can and should be taken, in particular, by the commission and the member states. that is why i voted in favour of the report, although i am aware that there are still many steps to be taken.
in writing. while childhood obesity rates are rising in the west, the fight against hunger continues in developing countries. some 200 million children under the age of five suffer from stunted growth as a result of chronic maternal and child malnutrition. malnutrition, a combination of factors such as insufficient protein, sugar, disease and infection, food ignorance, drinking unsafe water, lack of medical checkups, and poor hygiene, strikes slowly and silently, slowing a child's physical and intellectual development, causing permanent delays, and ultimately eroding the body's ability to successfully respond to infection and disease. reducing or even eliminating malnutrition is now possible and is one of the millennium development goal commitments. breastfeeding, iodized salt, vitamin a and micronutrient supplies are simple, low-cost but highly effective measures implemented by unicef and partner organizations. i believe that global commitments to food security, nutrition and sustainable agriculture can be helpful in addressing the causes of child and maternal malnutrition in countries like asia and africa, where 90 percent of children at risk live.
in writing. malnutrition kills 3.1 million children in developing countries every year. although over two hundred million people have been lifted out of hunger in the past two decades, the road to solving this serious world problem is still a long way off. asia is still the continent with the most undernourished people: of the 805 million hungry people in the world, 526 million live in asia. in sub-saharan africa, the numbers are lower, but the ratio is higher: one in four people are hungry. but defeating world malnutrition is not an impossible task. economic development of these areas and coordination of aid from states and international organizations are the recipe for winning this battle which has been fought for too many years now. for these reasons i supported the motion for a resolution.
in writing. in favour of the report. combating child malnutrition in a society, like the western one, where literally thousands of tons of food are thrown away is absolutely imperative.
in writing. every year, 6.9 million children die 19,000 every day from easily preventable causes, and 99% of these deaths occur in developing countries. it's like a massacre we can't stop. and here's the good news: in 1960, 20 million children between the ages of 0 and 5 died. in 2011, deaths dropped to 6.9 million. this shows us that a good strategy and, more importantly, its careful, precise and timely implementation can save many lives. as was emphasized last week at the international conference on malnutrition sponsored by the fao, the fight against malnutrition requires coordinated action among the various actors in all relevant fields at international, regional, national and community level. agricultural and food systems, including crops, livestock, fisheries and aquaculture, must be regulated through concerted public policies, taking into account resources, the environment, people, the processes by which food is produced, processed, distributed, prepared and consumed. expo milano 2015 will be dedicated to 'feeding the planet, energy for life' and, among all other relevant events and venues, will be an opportunity to highlight the importance of food safety and nutrition and to raise public awareness; it's up to us not to waste this opportunity.
in writing. the fight against child malnutrition and adequate and nutritious nutrition should continue to be among the main objectives of the post-2015 agenda under the goal of the elimination of hunger, calling for the need to end all forms of malnutrition by 2030 and to achieve the internationally agreed targets for malnutrition in children under five by 2025. i therefore voted in favour of the motion for a resolution.
in writing. - 20 million children worldwide continue to suffer from acute malnutrition, and only 10% of them have access to the necessary care. i therefore think it is important that the international public authorities should take appropriate action to guarantee the right to food and proper nutrition. my vote in favour of the resolution is based on the awareness that only an integrated approach, supported by coordinated action in the many areas which are responsible for this phenomenon, such as health, education, agriculture and water resources, can ensure that the problem is dealt with properly.
in writing. to tackle the problem of undernutrition and malnutrition in children in developing countries, an integrated approach and coordinated action is needed in a number of key areas, such as health, education, agriculture, water resources, access to energy and health infrastructure. we call on the commission and the member states to adopt coherent long-term development strategies, including in the context of emergencies and humanitarian intervention, integrating nutrition, food security and sustainable agriculture into all their development policies. to be most effective, development and emergency programmes will need to be closely linked in order to anticipate and prevent food crises, help reduce the damage caused and facilitate recovery. i therefore call on the commission and the member states to mobilise long-term financial resources and investment for nutrition, in collaboration with actors such as un agencies, the g8/g20, emerging countries, international and non-governmental organisations, academic institutions, civil society organisations and the private sector, and to identify nutrition as a priority for innovative funding.
in writing. the eu is and must be the leader in all humanitarian assistance, especially in cases like this one on child malnutrition. i think this is a priority emergency, and that is why i voted in favour. the ultimate aim must be to improve infant and maternal nutrition and ensure good food security. i am well aware that great efforts will be needed to achieve effective and coordinated action in the various policies in this complex area: the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's environmental and climate action programmes, including the implementation of the eu's climate action programmes, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's environmental and climate action programmes. member states should give greater attention to nutrition, food security and sustainable agriculture in all their development policies, seeking to channel resources and financial investment to improve global food security, in collaboration with un agencies, emerging countries and international organisations.
in writing. - i have decided to vote in favour of a resolution tabled by the committee on development and which deals with a very important subject such as child malnutrition in developing countries. although these are sometimes statements which are self-contained, the contents pose no problem for convinced support of the
in writing. every year, diseases and malnutrition kill nearly 10 million children under the age of five, particularly in the first few weeks of life. in half of the cases, the effects of the disease are made lethal by a debilitating state due to malnutrition or vitamin deficiencies. in industrialized countries, almost no children die from such causes anymore; it is therefore not wrong to say that the spectre of poverty is almost always behind the death of a child from illness. in 2000, world leaders stepped up their commitment to child health to reduce the under-five mortality rate by two-thirds, but sadly, it wasn't enough. the european union must do more to ensure that governments in developing countries create an enabling environment for better child nutrition by strengthening policies and coordination between national plans and strategies.
i am glad that the commissioner has taken the initiative to put forward a proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment and the fight against tax evasion.
i would like to thank mrs ayuso for her work and tell the commissioner that she can count on our group to help her in this matter. as has already been said, the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora provides for a number of safeguards to ensure that international trade in wild fauna and flora does not threaten the survival of species. cites protects more than 35 000 species and 178 countries are members, including all the member states of the european union. the eu can now finally be a party to it and no longer just an observer. it is therefore a due act. this is because the european union has the primary responsibility for applying the convention: is a necessary step to make the protection of biodiversity and endangered species more effective. the preservation, protection and improvement of the quality of the environment are priorities of the union, as laid down in the treaties, together with the prudent and rational use of natural resources and the international promotion of measures to solve environmental problems. in addition, the eu adopts measures for the proper functioning of the internal market and in the field of customs union, common commercial policy. international trade at the expense of endangered species - think of the extermination of elephants and rhinos for tusks and horns, the indiscriminate hunting of fur animals and big cats, the slashing of rare trees for their timber - generates annual revenues of 200 billion dollars. this barbarism impoverishes the earth, enriches some criminal organizations and often fuels wars and terrorism. we therefore welcome the direct involvement of the european union in cites and its accession, as envisaged in the proposal for a council decision, and we thank all the law enforcement agencies that monitor compliance with these rules.
on behalf of the efdd group. we can only agree with the european union's accession to the washington convention, as the environment committee has done with virtually unanimous approval. cites has been ratified by 180 countries worldwide and is probably one of the most effective pieces of legislation to help protect protected species. the occasion of the european union's accession to the convention must, however, be an incentive to do even more, much more, in the area of illegal wildlife trafficking. in 2011, the value of the european market for products of species included in the washington convention lists was estimated at almost eur 500 million. europol notes that in recent years the level of increasingly organised and pervasive criminal activity in the area of illegal wildlife trade has been increasing. the european union is increasingly a consumer but also a producer of illegally acquired natural resources to be placed on the markets. the european database of seizures of cites species contains over 37 000 records, a clear indication of a huge illegal market. an example of this is the massive illegal import of meat from africa, the so-called "bush meat", which in the countries of origin is an important food resource, whereas in our country it is just a fad and a display of a welfare state: we are talking about 270 tons of meat illegally imported through the paris airport alone. so we welcome the union's membership of cites, but we are also proceeding with other initiatives, such as strengthening the rules, improving data collection and tightening penalties for violators.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we welcome the accession of the european union to the international convention against the smuggling of endangered species. this is an important decision, since, despite the efforts of the member states, the european union is still one of the three preferred destinations for specimens and products of endangered species, together with the united states and japan. however, there are some positive projects, also implemented by individual member states, such as the purchase of vicuña wool, which have shown the possibility of reconciling the protection of vulnerable species with the need to support indigenous populations, who are therefore involved in protection programmes. there is also a need to improve intelligence activities in both countries of origin and destination, including through the wider use of common databases such as eu-twix. we also expect the european union to contribute effectively to a specific coordination programme for interpol's 'infraterra' initiative, in order to bring the nine most wanted environmental criminals, including the main culprits in the illegal trade in vulnerable species, to justice as soon as possible.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, by joining the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora, the eu is at last equipped with an important instrument for protecting biodiversity. the eu's participation as a legal entity in this system of species protection can only reaffirm the prominent and responsible position that the eu assumes in promoting environmental sustainability. more than 35 000 species are covered by the provisions of the convention. we now have an even more secure legal framework, which also benefits the safety of european citizens, regulating the introduction and import of protected flora and fauna. we are therefore preparing to ratify an instrument which will strengthen the coherence and the negotiating weight of the european union in the international arena, in particular coherence with the lisbon treaty by giving the european commission full competence in the field of trade and the environment. another step towards a stronger eu role in the world for sustainability and environmental responsibility.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union's accession to cites is of fundamental importance in ensuring the safeguarding of biodiversity. although the european union did not immediately accede to the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora, it has always been committed, since 1 january 1984, to applying it fully. the accession of the european union to cites thus represents the evolution and maturation of a natural and logical process which will finally enable the union to be adequately represented and to guide the work of the convention and to play its role effectively. by joining cites, the union will further strengthen its leadership in environmental, animal welfare and environmental policy, ensuring that international trade in endangered species does not undermine their survival at community level. i believe that accession, which would allow the commission to play a key role in the negotiations during the conferences of the parties, would increase the coherence and unity of the european union's action on cites-related issues and would lead to a greater alignment of the member states' positions. i am therefore convinced that accession must be seen as a logical and necessary step for the eu to be fully able to pursue the objectives it has set itself in the framework of its environmental policy.
in writing. trade in protected species is still a reality and animals need to be protected from commercial practices that may put them at risk. that is what cites is for, a convention that has already been ratified by many countries, but which has only recently been able to be ratified by the european union. as my colleague marco affronte said a moment ago, there is still a lot to be done to protect these species and we of the five star movement will certainly not let our contribution be in vain. i would point out that the council, in its request for assent to parliament, referred only to article 192 of the treaties, the protection of the environment, and not to article 207, international trade. since this is a convention which regulates trade, i repeat, trade in animal and plant species in order to protect them from practices which may endanger them, it is important that the legal basis for international trade be considered as well, because the cites convention pursues both the objectives of legal and non-harmful trade and the protection of animals. and it is only by including all possible fields of application that the convention will be even more effective.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i support everything that mr eickhout has said. i will add a few technical points, if i may, because not all fossil fuels are simply harmful to the environment and to health: some of them are even worse! they're devastating to the environment and to health. i am talking about oil sands and shale gas. a study recently published in the journal atmospheric environment has shown that in the large oil sands and chemical processing area in canada, air samples were taken in which volatile organic chemicals were found to be up to 6 000 times higher than normal. the levels of 1,3-butadiene and benzene, which are very potent carcinogens, were 322 times higher in the under-wind than in the over-wind, and in the population living in those areas, the medical records collected over a little more than ten years have shown a considerable increase in leukemia and non-hodgkin's lymphoma, especially as we approached the pollution peaks. the commission proposal for the calculation of emissions does not, however, take any account of oil sands and shale gas. ladies and gentlemen, you have been elected, for the most part, to defend the citizens and their own environment: but how can you still tolerate a commission that does such things?
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission proposal on the methods and reporting obligations under the fuel quality directive has several shortcomings. it does not allow differentiation between the intensity of greenhouse gases and different raw materials and, consequently, neither does it allow the reporting of the actual emissions of individual fuels. the new calculation methods proposed give canadian tar sands, for example, which are highly polluted, an average greenhouse gas intensity value lower than their actual emission value and will therefore favour their importation into the european market. in the light of these considerations, i therefore believe that the objection to the proposal from the european commission on the implementation of the fuel quality directive is justified. however, i believe that even in assessing the commission's proposal we must not forget the general context in which it is placed, namely that of energy security, which, following the recent events in russia and ukraine, cannot but be at the top of the european union's agenda. i think, however, that the commission must continue to work to encourage the development of low-carbon fuels and innovative technologies that improve the environmental performance of fuel suppliers.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i am asking that this directive be completely changed at european level and that tar sands be banned because of their destructive impact on the environment. i also ask for help for the region of sardinia, where there is a private refinery which intends to use these tar sands. i ask that the environment be respected, since this is an environmentally protected island and a tourist-oriented island.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i think that the commission's report on the good repute of hauliers is completely inadequate and insufficient. this category suffers serious damage because of these european rules which, on the one hand, favour the free movement of goods and persons but, on the other, fail to protect those who operate in the internal market and are subject to obvious unfair competition. we have to look at the serious phenomena of illegal cabotage and social dumping which, for example, in italy are destroying the whole sector. there are road hauliers who are forced to compete with outside firms which, thanks to more favourable national legislation, can offer more favourable prices, in effect causing the bankruptcy or relocation of many of our small and mediumsized enterprises. i therefore ask all of you to commit yourselves to urgently reviewing the rules on this subject, taking into account the fact that these workers are often forced to work at unsustainable hours, which keep them away from their families for long periods of time.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, thank you for being here and for the clarifications you gave us in the introduction. the main consideration, which has been made by other colleagues and which i share, is the centrality of transport in the future of the union, both in terms of transport of goods and in terms of transport of people. however, we have ventured on a very complex and in some ways dangerous path: in other words, the commission has decided to indicate in the delegated acts, exhaustively, the cases in which the carrier risks losing its good repute and therefore risks losing its authorisation to operate its service. i would also like to say that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. when do you decide to indicate, in a binding way, to indicate the cases in which you risk losing your honour? if the indication is mandatory, the argument that if we have done something good, we should not delete it and move on is not valid. in fact, as long as they are identified through a standard of general criteria, then you can welcome the beginning of a path. but when it comes to taxation, everything that is not included in the taxation list is allowed. or rather: anything which is not indicated, in the specific case, as serious because this is the point will not be such as to permit the suspension of the service authorization. i would like to take the example of what is considered the most serious case in my country and in other countries, namely illegal cabotage. the fact that the mandatory indication provided for in the delegated act does not qualify illegal cabotage as such also worries my country about the social consequences this will have. so there are serious consequences for business, but also serious consequences for social dumping. i would like to draw particular attention to this and i agree with the statement by my party that this list may be revised in its entirety. i thank you very much for the work you are doing.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there is one point which has not been discussed this evening: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the animal welfare system is properly implemented. i ask that the level of seriousness of the offence be increased if the level of transport of animals is not adequate. this is the case, for example, when there are no protective devices in animal hoists or when transport without valid documents or certificates is not handed over at the request of the police. i ask the commission to do so.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the european commission must express a common and strong position providing for a harmonised framework of penalties at community level in respect of road traffic offences. the alternative is for each member state to take individual initiatives, which may create differences in treatment from country to country. i therefore welcome the european commission's effort to draw up a list of serious road traffic offences which can lead to loss of reputation for the carrier, which is an essential requirement for holding a licence. however, i cannot but share the recent position of the european parliament's committee on transport which rejected the list presented by the european commission. i believe that the european commission should propose more ambitious legislation in this respect, capable of protecting and enforcing the social rights of workers, by combating social dumping and illegal cabotage, which must be included in the list. i also believe that the commission must work on harmonizing costs at community level, to avoid social dumping and to prevent the race to the bottom which ends up deteriorating both the transport profession and road safety.
member of the commission. - mr president, i thank the honourable members for their very important remarks on this important implementing measure. i listened to all of them very carefully, and i can assure you that they will all be analysed with respect. but please just allow me one clarification. illegal cabotage is a serious infringement in the context of fair competition. member states are obliged to penalise it and consider it when assessing good repute. however, it is not part of this classification, where seriousness of infringement is defined on the basis of risk of fatalities or serious injuries. cabotage infringement is not linked to such a road-safety risk. i would also like to point out that, when assessing good repute, member states should, however, also consider infringements against the national social rules, including those on pay and employment conditions. nevertheless, we should all keep in mind that this is just one step. we already made clear that the agenda of this commission includes addressing social dumping, which has no place in the european union, but we will do so in consultation with social partners and with adequate tools at our disposal. but it is now time for you to decide whether you want the exchange of information to start now – allowing for better enforcement – or if you prefer to delay this further. but at the same time, please allow me to thank you for your very positive and very constructive comments and for offering to help with very good cooperation in the future, to make sure that transport stays safe and competitive and is a key driver of european future prosperity.
substitute writer. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, as you know, the competitiveness council on 5 december adopted its conclusions on a partnership for research and innovation in the mediterranean area, the acronym of which is prima. the process has been under way for some time and the cypriot and greek presidencies, which have promoted discussions in the council on this subject, have paved the way for the result achieved during the italian semester. but the process is not yet over, and i would say that it must now begin operationally. the point has been discussed on several occasions. i think it is safe to say, commissioner, that there is now a broad political consensus on the need to establish long-term structured cooperation in research and innovation in the mediterranean area. the committee on external economic relations, which i represent here, has put an oral question on the prima proposal under article 185, because it considers that the subject of this initiative is of strategic importance for the present situation and above all for the development of the mediterranean area and relations between the european union and the mediterranean. we all understand that if this issue was important in 2012, when it was born in barcelona, it is even more important today, precisely because there have been historical passages in these regions that will mark history, both in the absence of an evolution and a revolution, sometimes, of the countries of that area. the european union must therefore make an effort, an effort to invest more in these regions, in these countries, and to do so in the field of research and innovation, because we all know - we say this for europe but it is also true for other regions - that research and innovation are powerful levers of development but also of social, cultural, as well as economic and productive transformation. in short, they are key factors in the capacity for growth and growth in a qualified and socially and environmentally positive direction, as far as development is concerned. prima, a partnership for research and innovation in the mediterranean, is an article 185 initiative which provides for structuring and implementation within the framework of the union for the mediterranean. it has produced little in recent years but could find a very useful and important field of application here. the proposal has developed with the identification of a shared scientific programme, a joint programming, which is based on two axes, two pillars, i would say, inextricably linked to each other: water resources and food systems, combined with safety, health and sustainability, are also at the heart of many european policies, and are also the subject of the forthcoming expo in milan, a world event held in europe. the effects on the economic and productive structure are obvious to all. this programme, which has a clearly defined objective, aims to develop innovative solutions and promote their application, i.e. research and innovation to be applied immediately in production systems by end users, primarily farmers, to improve the efficiency and sustainability of food production and water resources. the programme has gathered an impressive critical mass of signatures: the commission has also proposed that the programme be extended to include the countries of central and eastern europe, the mediterranean countries and the countries of the mediterranean. i would say that, at the moment, the financial commitment of the countries concerned is estimated to be in the order of 200 million euro. so this is a major undertaking to which europe should contribute with its own equally significant effort. i would say that this is an important programme, which could be the cornerstone of a new partnership between europe and the mediterranean. we talk a lot about this need for cooperation when we are dealing with major issues related to stability throughout the region and to many security prospects. we ask you, commissioner, what you intend to do, what your programme is, what your proposals are, and we remind you of a few points. we are calling for this initiative on the basis of article 185 because we believe that parliament should have a role, a voice, a joint decision on this programme. but i want to return to a few points i want to make: a structured programme means research that is articulated, that has meaning, coordination and logic, not fragmented and fragmented, that is an organic programme, capable of producing future results. we demand clear and effective governance: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a good example of the need to ensure that the directive is applied in a way that is consistent with the objectives of the directive.
member of the commission. - mr president, honourable members, i am very pleased to be here with you today for what is my first intervention in the plenary as the commissioner for research, science and innovation. in my statement during my hearing, i committed to engaging in an open dialogue and to maintaining close contact with the members of this house in order to ensure that the channels of communication are always open. in this context, i welcome the opportunity to have an exchange of views with you on the issue raised in your oral question. firstly, i would like to stress that the commission fully recognises the crucial importance of euro-mediterranean cooperation in research and innovation. research and innovation are key elements for developing a stronger partnership for democracy and shared prosperity with our southern neighbours. secondly, i would like to acknowledge all the work performed over the last two and half years by the eu member states and their southern mediterranean partners, which led to the council conclusion of 5 september, which i supported on behalf of the commission. particular thanks go to the italian presidency for its strong engagement, and, in particular, to minister giannini. thirdly, parliament too has also shown strong interests in euro-mediterranean cooperation, and i personally remember very well the three questions i received during my hearing: one from ms toia, one from mr blanco lópez and the other from mr borrelli – three members of the itre committee – on the importance of the prima initiative. more recently, i had the opportunity to address the prima topic at the structured dialogue i had in the itre committee on 4 december. i am therefore perfectly aware that those co-legislators attach great importance to euro-mediterranean cooperation – as does the commission. the chosen approach of focusing on food systems and water resources has the potential to contribute to addressing key challenges in the region. in particular, addressing the water/food nexus in relation to the specificities of the mediterranean context may have added value for existing research and innovation activities and networks. now that i have addressed the content aspect, which in my view prevails over the rest, i cannot conclude without a word on the procedure, due to the specific reference to article 185. concerning your specific questions, i would first of all like to reassure you and confirm to you that once the commission formally receives the joint programme proposal from the prima group, it will carefully assess it and evaluate the best way forward – including the article 185 option. firstly, it goes without saying that any initiative will necessarily be built on – and avoid overlaps with – other ongoing initiatives in order to integrate efforts in a coherent way, to pool resources in a sustainable way and to take account of the long-term perspective. these should be the primary concerns. it is necessary to have a deep knowledge of the work that has been done before or is currently in progress in that field so that we can build on it and deliver on a winning partnership. this is now even more the case due to the new approach announced by president juncker regarding better and smarter regulation, the aim of which is to reduce the administrative burden, especially for businesses, to ensure that the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality are respected, and to ensure that that eu legislation is actually fit for purpose and creates favourable conditions for economic development. secondly, a mature, well-focused proposal from the member states is a prerequisite for the commission in order to assess the participation of the union in the programme and determine the way forward. we will therefore check whether the proposal, firstly, has clear objectives and is relevant to the objectives of horizon 2020 and the broader union policies; secondly, this proposal should be proven to have eu added value in a critical mass; thirdly, there should be a sound financial commitment from the participating countries. all the points that i have just mentioned mean that the commission takes the initiative seriously and will analyse the joint programme proposal in an in-depth manner. it should not be understood as a way to rule out any possibility, or, in this case, article 185. let me be clear with you: i want to proceed, but in a way that would be most effective in helping us to achieve our shared objective of strengthening euro-mediterranean cooperation. for this reason, it is premature at this stage to provide a timeline for the process to be undertaken before we have made an initial assessment of the joint programme and before we have determined whether the commission will launch a legislative proposal as a result. let me finish by saying that the commission recognises that the recent developments in the southern neighbourhood are challenging. these make it even more important to deploy all instruments at our disposal for cooperation in research and innovation. these will always play a relevant diplomatic role.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, you are now embarking on your adventure as commissioner, i am embarking on my adventure as a member of the european parliament, so i wish you both a good day's work. the views expressed by mrs toia on the agreement and the programme on the possibility of developing research and innovation through the prima project in the mediterranean basin cannot but be met with my most convinced support and my request for effective and effective cooperation, including through the commission's actual presence in the framework of this programme. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. he doesn 't intervene for emotional reasons . the commission's proposals are based on the principle of subsidiarity, which is the basis of the treaty of rome. the case of the mediterranean basin and the case of research and innovation are cases which, in my view, certainly meet these criteria, with particular reference to the particular topics raised by mr toia, namely the theme of food and water. the water issue is a central issue, it is an issue on which our people will have a lot to work on in the future and it is a central point for concentrating development opportunities in the countries that need them. we as europeans have developed entrepreneurial skills, development and research capabilities in these areas and we cannot but transfer them. from this point of view we cannot afford not to have ad hoc programmes. it is right, i think it is right, to recall the remark made by the italian minister giannini, which you also quoted, that with regard to the prima programme, he spoke of a kind of horizon 2020 that is geographically located, specifically geared to a specific area, as in the specific case. these are eight countries in the european area bordering the mediterranean, including my own country, italy, and there are nine in the asian and african area who are waiting to be genuinely involved. there is nothing better from a cultural, educational and economic point of view than to rebuild and implement the strength of this basin, the mediterranean basin, through the theme of research and innovation. so i really ask you to support this path, respecting the criteria that have been identified.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we believe that greater attention and cooperation between the mediterranean countries is needed now more than ever, after decades of the union's policy being focused too much on the north east. meanwhile, the countries of southern europe have been hit hard by both the introduction of the single currency and austerity policies. we will therefore give full support to the partnership for research and innovation in the mediterranean area but some clarifications are needed. a mediterranean new deal cannot but be accompanied by extreme rigor: and by rigor we do not mean the inhumane and ineffective rigor of austerity but the rigor on the legitimate and appropriate use of european funds, in many member states where corruption is rampant, and the strict adherence to the regulations on the real participation of stakeholders and ngos. we also believe that it is essential to work on european legislation which effectively counteracts the growth and spread of organised crime and corruption in the south and north of europe. corruption often feeds on the misuse of european funds.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i wish you all the best for your work and i assure you that we will certainly be sharing and cooperating with you in a sincere manner, because i believe that research and innovation are the basis of real growth and also with regard to what we have just defined as a partnership, i believe that the time is right for a legislative proposal and for actually offering institutional stability to this partnership. the process so far has created a strong consensus between the member states and the partner states, which is clearly reflected in the financial commitment they have made to support the initiative. this certainly shows the will to continue along the path which is considered valid for achieving the objectives of greater integration at scientific, managerial and financial levels. the added value that would be derived from this is certainly beyond dispute, we have all said so. the mediterranean countries share the same problems and needs. union action by strengthening the synergies between the multiannual framework programme and the action undertaken throughout the partnership can undoubtedly provide the instrument which will help to identify concrete solutions and common challenges. the mediterranean is facing very important problems today and we are continuing to discuss in this house how to solve, for example, the problem of immigration but also the problem of unemployment. i am convinced that this instrument will make a great contribution. i therefore ask you to proceed without delay with the application of article 185 of the treaty, which will contribute to the internal stability of the area through dialogue and comparison in the field of research and innovation. i would like to conclude by saying that, as the epp's youth policy officer, i am also convinced that research and innovation are the key to giving young people a positive and optimistic outlook on the future, and that they also see their own future and that of their country as a better one. i am also thinking of ispra, the european research centre in my province, which i would like you to visit if you have not already done so, as it can be a springboard for a union and a mediterranean partnership, which we already have at home and which we can strengthen.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the investigation into the mafia capital is exposing the shameful interweaving of organized crime, corruption and politics, which has managed power, labour and public procurement and whose operational centre is rome, the capital of italy. unfortunately, it confirms what we have been saying for a long time: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. we have long been denouncing the intrusion of organised crime into the management of reception centres for immigrants, a fact that is emerging from the investigation. what is happening in italy must not be considered as a local fact. the fact that the mafia is not a criminal organisation is a very serious matter, and i am not going to go into it in detail. mafia and criminal organizations that use secrecy and obscurity to grow and enrich themselves. as theology teaches, the devil's supreme trick is to make us believe he doesn't exist: the european parliament must therefore keep a high guard against the mafia, without delay, and with every tool at its disposal.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there is a country in the european union where 60 members of parliament, including members of the european parliament, have been in prison for almost two years. this country is greece and the movement is called golden dawn. a flagrant case of violation of political rights and also of electoral rights, since we are going to elections, all the more serious because in the historical heart of democracy. the banking technocracy that rules greece and imposes solutions that the greek people obviously do not agree with, is suppressing a movement that is annoying to these globalist powers. i believe that the president of the european parliament must intervene to verify this situation and the justification of this judicial repression, which is a violation of the political rights of a significant number of greek citizens. solidarity, as is always the case, for the principles of freedom for those who are imprisoned for political reasons, and i think that you, mr president, who come from a country which has suffered so much under dictatorship and which has fought for its freedom, understand this better than anyone else.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i am speaking now on behalf of the 21% of italians who went to vote in the last european elections. these people, oppressed by the crisis and taxes, voted for me to come here and tell them that we no longer want the stability pact, that we no longer want budgetary constraints and that we do not want the commission's accountants and the markets to govern the tax policy choices of the member states. people want a policy that can look at excessive spreads, speculation, the commercial banks, hedge funds and say to them, "i'm sorry, but we make the rules here, not you". the welfare of the majority of citizens is put after the interests of speculators by these taxation measures, and we cannot accept that. the stability and growth pact is a utopia. we have seen how stability in high-debt countries only leads to poverty, unemployment and the selling off by sovereign states of property and rights to an abstract entity called the market that represents the interest of the 1% of the population. the other 99% are disillusioned and no longer believe in politics. so much so that most of them no longer vote and live in a system they despise. the only thing we can do right and fair with the stability pact, the six pack, the two pack and above all the fiscal compact is this (the speaker tears a piece of paper) and since you do not have the moral and intellectual honesty to do it, really as the luxleaks case and other paradoxes have shown, and that now the time is up, in italy we will get the italians to vote for our referendum on the euro and this will be an opportunity to unmask the many hidden truths about democracy overtaken by the financial dictatorship, giving the real opportunity to rebel, showing who is to blame for the crisis, who brought our country into the single currency, who has manipulated the accounts and who has stolen the management of public money, by taking from the sovereign right of a nation to the sovereign right of the peoples' market and private banking and financial speculation, by speculating the system. look me in the eye when i tell you! we represent those people who will never surrender to being slaves to finance, debt and above all to technocracy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i do not believe that a simple revision of economic governance will be enough to overcome the deep crisis in which our continent is plunged, and the cause of the recession of recent years is to be found precisely in the european regulations which have strangled all possibilities for development. the six-pack and two-pack are the tragic completion of a process which began in 1997 with the implementation of the stability and growth pact, a name which unfortunately sounds like a joke today, because stability has become a precarious downward equilibrium and we have seen no sign of growth. i would ask my colleagues to take a few hours during the christmas holidays to read the essay by an italian professor and former minister, giuseppe guarino, which we delivered to everyone in brussels last week. with the specific arguments and the concrete facts cited, you will be able to understand how all these successive regulations are in fact contrary to the objectives enshrined in the european treaties: the commission's proposals are not only a means of achieving the objectives of growth and development but also a means of achieving them through budgetary discipline and constraints. let us therefore start from the spirit of the treaties and thus cancel all the absurd impositions which are killing us.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, if the two-pack and six-pack provisions were designed to contain the debt and promote growth and if the situation is so bad today in all respects, i ask you, what is still to happen to show that something is wrong? we do not want to break the rules - i say this to all concerned colleagues - but we want the rules to be useful and functional in order to achieve the objective. we want smart flexibility, meaning useful flexibility, with the right investments, the right spending, useful for growing gdp. flexibility is not the opposite of credibility, as some very authoritative person has said these days. it's the opposite of the obsessional, obsessional, counterproductive rigidity that got him here. the application must be sensitive, flexible. if it is only automatic and accounting, then let us be governed by a computer and not by a political commission. so i say to you, also on behalf of the 40% of italians who voted in the last italian elections, that we will ask for flexibility, not only for the juncker plan but also for the co-financing of projects approved by the european union within the framework of agenda 2020 not outside that context. enough with this obsessive ideology that neglects other instruments, fiscal policies, growth policies and enough with the attacks on italy. someone asked what italy is doing. i'll answer for what he does. italy is making reforms, italy is following the rules. but he wants a smart economic policy that will help achieve that. we do not want favouritism but a smart, rigorous and far-sighted policy.
it's a blue-card question. i'm not sure what it is. i wanted to ask my colleague if he really believes that the economic governance of the eurozone is working when at the end of 2013 only 4 out of 17 countries were meeting the criteria of the stability and growth pact. i think that rather than just talking from the top, it would be useful to look at the numbers and statistics from time to time.
it's a blue-card question. i'm not sure what it is. i wanted to ask a very simple question. if you think the euro is a sustainable currency for your country, i would like to ask you whether the interest rate your country is now paying, which seems to me to be around 9%, is sustainable at a time when it is under pressure from the financial crisis, when germany, perhaps, is paying 0% or even negative rates. is the euro sustainable without progress towards, for example, a single interest rate?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i believe that today's debate is one of the most important we can have as members of the european parliament. and we, as meps, were elected by the people to change that. we're not here to protest without proposals. we must have clear objectives, otherwise we will not be following the mandate that the citizens have given us. the holy father gave us a clear message on november 25th, a clear message that was shared by 99.9% of this house, which was: "more europe, a fairer europe and the need to keep the reality of democracies alive". this message was shared, verbally, with statements from all the groups with only two or three opposing it. this means combining economic growth with stability. but in a time of crisis, growth comes first, otherwise you don't get out. without growth, we continue to have stability and it becomes almost like a noose around our neck. and if we have to use more debt for growth - and i mean really, only - and as an italian i can understand your perplexities - for investment, why not do it? i am convinced that investment is the springboard for real growth and that it would really create jobs. i fully support juncker's plan for a fiscal union. in italy it would really solve a lot of problems, given the taxation we have. you see, some italians are here in strasbourg complaining about the european stability pact. but often you look elsewhere and don't look in your own home: we start to settle accounts in our house, by changing the internal stability pact that doesn't allow mayors to spend the money they have. there is also talk of unemployment in germany, where the euro is in place, and unemployment in england, where the euro is not in place, and in this case the rates are much lower than ours. i conclude by saying that we tell the ecb to have ((the president withdraws the floor from the speaker))
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that european economic governance must be re-formulated in the light of the paradigm shift of recent months, taking into account that our continent is characterized by fragile and uncertain growth, dangerous deflation and structural unemployment. the investment plan proposed by juncker is only the first and insufficient step towards a change of direction, which will have to be more clearly defined in the coming months. the priority given to growth and development to overcome the crisis must now be reflected in the technical instruments of european economic governance. it is an important occasion, perhaps the last call for europe, that europe which we have built with difficulty and which, because of shortsighted economic policies, is now in danger of being handed over to populism and nationalism or, more simply, to a destiny of irrelevance. as the june european council conclusions have shown, intelligent flexibility cannot be a soft concession but must be a strategic choice for europe. the structural reforms that the member states must carry out in a given period must also be carried out in a given period. but it is not possible to think of basing all the prospects for recovery on the juncker plan without a parallel encouragement of smart spending by the states. we are not asking for abstract flexibility. we call for the encouragement of virtuous spending, which will act as a multiplier for the juncker plan and help to build a lasting recovery based on a real business economy.
in writing. the stability pact must be respected, but new investment is needed to revive europe and jobs. the real betrayal of future generations is to deprive them of the infrastructure essential to growth and well-being, to leave them with a legacy of failing infrastructure, poor schools, inadequate health care and compromised growth potential. to avoid this situation, a flexibility clause should be inserted in the stability pact and the new european fund for strategic investments should be activated. a deeper and fairer monetary and economic union requires a review of the rules of the six pack and two pack, the texts which introduced the obligation to balance the structural balance and on which policies to redress excessive debt and deficit imbalances in the eu countries were based. there is room for improvement in the transparency and complexity of policy making and its impact on growth, imbalances and convergence. the fiscal compact, which permanently institutionalises the austerity regime imposed in europe following the crisis, must be revised, and the limited fiscal room for manoeuvre provided for by the maastricht treaty and the stability pact must be definitively abolished.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i refer to rule 186 of the rules of procedure. europe cannot stand idly by in the face of the decision of the indian supreme court, which rejected the request of the two moro who were asking to remain in italy, one for health reasons and the other to visit his family for christmas. this is a very serious violation of human rights. barroso and ashton had intervened. we now ask juncker and mogherini to give a strong signal. we have to get them home. the free sailors are european citizens, they are one of us.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i ask parliament and the italian members of the gue group to comment on a very serious incident which occurred on 15 december last, when a well-known italian journalist, a former member of this parliament, giulietto chiesa, was arrested in tallinn, estonia, shortly before he was due to attend a public conference to which he had been invited. he was released and then sent back to italy as persona non grata. the conference was entitled "is russia our enemy?" i find this very serious because in a european country a public figure and a journalist are prevented from speaking.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the confirmation of the european ombudsman because i think that she has done a very good work and shall continue so.
in writing. - i voted yes. the outgoing candidate and mediator has so far performed her duties impartially and has advocated for greater transparency in ttip negotiations. the ombudsman is an important position in defending citizens from eu mismanagement. the means that are granted to such a figure are not appropriate but the person deserves trust. i'll keep an eye on his activities.
in writing. ‒ one of the european union's greatest challenges is to ensure that all citizens participate effectively in the life of the institutions and that, through a system that cannot be left open to any gaps, the maximum protection is achieved for the subjective positions and the widespread and collective interests of individuals. the european ombudsman is a bulwark of the democratic system, which ensures that protection is effective even beyond that guaranteed by national laws. i voted in favour of the election of the european ombudsman emily o'reilly for the next five years, the first woman to hold this office. i stress the crucial role and i agree with him: "my goal last year was to start the process of taking the ombudsman's office to the next level by adopting a more strategic approach that will increase the impact of the office, improve its relevance to citizens and improve overall efficiency". the mandate must be continued with determination, considering that the issues to the attention of the body concerned the lack of transparency in the european institutions (25% of all cases in 2013) and complaints regarding the right to participate in the eu decision-making process.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the role of the european ombudsman is fundamental, a role which unfortunately does not exist in italy. we regret that there was only one candidate and that emily o'reilly's name was the only one to fill the post, given the absence of any other candidates.
in writing. ‒ as a member of the committee on petitions, i have seen in these first months how capable, competent and suited to the role she has played since 2013 is ms o'reilly. in view of the above, i have therefore decided to confirm my confidence in her continuing in this post, in which she has so far shown that she is doing her duty properly. - i'm not going to the party.
in writing. i welcome today's decision appointing the european ombudsman and thus allowing him to operate and carry out his important tasks in the public interest. i hope that with today's vote, you will be able to act with the utmost independence and transparency to combat instances of maladministration in the european institutions and bodies and, as a result, to strengthen the instruments for protecting the rights of the citizens of the union and to improve the efficiency of the european administration. i also hope that the new ombudsman will strengthen that dialogue and that fruitful relationship between citizens and the eu, to encourage the highest standards of conduct in the institutions and to increase, more generally, citizens' trust in europe.
in writing. ‒ the call for nominations for the election of the new european ombudsman was published in the official journal on 2 september. the only nomination received was that of outgoing ombudsman emily o'reilly, elected in july 2013 following the resignation of her predecessor diamandouros. the european ombudsman is responsible for following up complaints from european citizens in the event of maladministration in an eu institution, body, office or agency. i hope that the fundamental objective of the ombudsman, confirmed today, will be to contribute to improving the quality of democracy in the eu by strengthening transparency, ethics and participation in decision-making by european citizens.
in writing. ‒ the only nomination received for the role of european ombudsman was that of outgoing ombudsman emily o'reilly, whose nomination was confirmed in today's vote. the role of the european ombudsman is of paramount importance in gathering reports of maladministration by the european institutions in order to ensure a prompt and effective response and resolution. the ombudsman's work also aims to improve transparency and democratic participation within the european institutions. the ombudsman's report for 2013 confirms her commitment to her task, and in particular the many ongoing inquiries into transparency in the ttip negotiations, in the commission's expert groups, in the so-called 'revolving door' cases and with regard to fundamental rights in cohesion policy and the european citizens' initiative are welcome.
in writing. ‒ my abstention is based on the fact that the european ombudsman could play a very important role within the european union. but since, obviously because of political will, the role played has not been up to the task, i shall vote without being able to give my full support.
in writing. ‒ the protection and promotion of human rights and human dignity are the foundation of the construction and the system of the european union. in 2013, 2420 complaints were registered and, in total, 23245 citizens were helped by the ombudsman. the role of the ombudsman, who is responsible for protecting these rights and who is the direct interlocutor of european citizens, is therefore of fundamental importance. the promotion of good administration must be a top priority for the new ombudsman. in a europe perceived as a heavy administrative apparatus run by cold bureaucrats, good administration requires much more than a mere refusal to engage in illegal conduct. the ombudsman's task will be to ensure that officials are at the service of the public, to ensure that they are treated properly and their rights are fully respected.
in writing. i am voting in favour of the re-appointment of ms o'reilly, as she has already demonstrated her commitment to gender equality and respect for fundamental rights. the european ombudsman plays a strategic role for citizens, businesses and all organisations in the eu. the candidate o'reilly has performed her role impeccably, contributing on several occasions to initiating and resolving cases of maladministration and human rights violations.
in writing. ‒ the european ombudsman has a key role to play: he contributes to strengthening the democratic aspirations of the european union by giving a voice to the citizens of the community. mrs o'reilly has shown over the past five years that she is capable of performing the ombudsman's duties in a proper and balanced way. she has made a significant contribution to the resolution of cases of maladministration and human rights violations by the community institutions. i have great respect for mrs o'reilly and i am glad that a woman holds such a high office. it is for these reasons that i have decided to vote, without hesitation, for your re-election.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the election of ms o'reilly to the post of european ombudsman for the excellent work she has done in recent months and for demonstrating her skills during the hearing before the committee on petitions of the european parliament. i am therefore confident that he will do a very good job of giving swift and effective answers to all those citizens who will report cases of maladministration by the eu institutions and bodies. i believe that our main objective, and that of the ombudsman in particular, is to restore the citizens' confidence in the european administration, which will then have to demonstrate greater transparency, flexibility and efficiency. providing citizens and legal persons with clearer rights and greater legal certainty in their relations with the union administration is now a priority in order to re-establish trust: it is no longer just a political necessity but a real cultural necessity!
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the election of dr emily o'reilly because, as outgoing european ombudsman, she has certainly done a good job and i believe that, thanks to this experience, she can continue to exercise this same office in the best possible way.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the measure transferring to efsa the tasks of the scientific committee for food under directive 93/5/eec.
in writing. ‒ my support for the proposal is in line with the refit programme launched by the commission in 2012 to ensure a simpler, clearer regulatory system and a reduction in the union's costs. the abolition of the scientific committee for food is a step in that direction. with the entry into force of regulation (ec) no 178/2002 of the european parliament and of the council, the tasks and powers of the committee concerning the assistance to the european commission and the cooperation of the member states in the scientific examination of food-related matters were transferred to the european food safety authority (efsa). for this reason, as was already the case unanimously in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, i voted in favour of repealing directive 93/5/eec.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because i think that it is absolutely essential to have a good scientific cooperation between the member states and the commission in matters concerning food.
in writing. - i voted yes. this is the repeal of directive 93/5/eec. the tasks of the scientific committee for food under directive 93/5/eec have been transferred to efsa and those tasks are currently governed by regulation (ec) no 178/2002.
in writing. ‒ the objective of directive 93/5/eec was to ensure the regularity of the work of the scientific committee for food by promoting scientific support from the member states and organising cooperation with the national bodies concerned on scientific matters relating to food safety. today, this directive 93/5/eec has become obsolete and must be repealed. the reason for this repeal is clear: regulation 2002/178/ec provided for the establishment of the european food safety authority (efsa), which also includes scientific cooperation between member states and national bodies operating in the areas of competence of the authority. efsa has therefore replaced the scientific committee for food. i therefore consider that the intentions and reasons put forward by the commission are clear, well founded and exhaustive, but above all tend to streamline the procedural procedures, and i have therefore decided today to vote in favour of this report with a view to repealing directive 93/5/eec.
in writing. ‒ this directive aims to ensure the regularity of the work of the scientific committee for food by enhancing cooperation between member states on scientific matters relating to food safety. the vote is in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report proposed today by mr la via, to whom i would like to thank for the work done, because it is part of the action initiated by the european commission to achieve a simple, clear, robust and predictable regulatory framework for businesses, workers and citizens, with the aim of repealing outdated legislation to make way for legislation that is more relevant to regulatory developments and needs. this is the case with the repeal of council directive 93/5/eec on the scientific committee for food: a directive that has become obsolete following the creation in 2002 of the european food safety authority (efsa) which provides the european institutions with scientific advice on risks associated with the food chain in an independent and more structured way.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the directive because i believe that it is appropriate to repeal directive 93/5/eec as obsolete.
in writing. ‒ my vote in favour of this proposal is not only an act of confidence in mr la via, a colleague whom i respect and whose scientific expertise i appreciate, but also an act of duty towards the citizens who waste their time with bureaucracy. this is to avoid duplication of scientific controls on foodstuffs, since the responsibility for all of them has now been transferred to efsa. in this europe, you have to scrub out the unnecessary chairs.
in writing. i voted in favour of repealing this obsolete directive on the assistance to the commission and cooperation of the member states in the scientific examination of questions relating to foodstuffs, as part of the programme for monitoring the adequacy and effectiveness of the regulations. in particular, the tasks of the scientific committee for food are now carried out by the european food safety authority and therefore the directive which we have repealed no longer made sense to continue in force. so we were right to repeal it.
in writing. ‒ in december 2012, the commission launched the regulatory fitness and performance programme to ensure that businesses, workers and citizens have a simple, clear, robust and predictable regulatory framework. council directive 93/5/eec was intended to ensure the regularity of the work of the scientific committee for food by promoting scientific support by the member states of that committee and by organising cooperation with the national bodies concerned on scientific matters relating to food safety. regulation (ec) no 178/2002 lays down the general principles and requirements of food law, establishes the european food safety authority and lays down procedures in the field of food safety, effectively superseding directive 93/5/eec. i can only vote in favour of this technical matter.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of repealing directive 93/5/eec. the tasks of the scientific committee for food under directive 93/5/eec have been transferred to efsa and are now governed by regulation (ec) no 178/2002.
in writing. ‒ i would like to express my support for the report by mr la via, which welcomes the proposal from the european commission and which repeals directive 93/5/eec, which is now obsolete. we are implementing the powers of the european food safety authority by this vote, and thus incorporating the previous powers of the scientific committee for food. this new legislature must see food safety as one of the priorities on the european environmental agenda, which is why i hope that the committee will enjoy the full political and scientific support of the member states, in particular by facilitating cooperation with the relevant national bodies on these issues.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, my report today seeks to repeal council directive 93/5/eec. it concerns the assistance to the commission and the cooperation of the member states in the scientific examination of questions relating to foodstuffs. the repeal was necessary as part of the programme to monitor the adequacy and effectiveness of regulation, in order to ensure a simpler and clearer regulatory framework for businesses, workers and citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's proposal for a directive repealing council directive 93/5/eec on the assistance to the commission and cooperation between member states in the scientific examination of questions relating to foodstuffs. since efsa has now become the body responsible for promoting scientific cooperation with the member states, the above directive no longer appears to be appropriate to the regulatory change that has occurred.
in writing. ‒ i share the need to repeal council directive 93/5/eec on the assistance to the commission and cooperation between member states in the scientific examination of questions relating to foodstuffs, within the framework of the programme for monitoring the adequacy and effectiveness of the rules. it is necessary to guarantee a simple, clear, sound and predictable regulatory framework for european businesses, workers and citizens. it is for these reasons that i felt it necessary to express my agreement with the report signed by mr la via.
in writing. ‒ mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am voting in favour of mr la via's report because i consider council directive 93/5/eec on the assistance to the commission and cooperation between member states in the scientific examination of questions relating to foodstuffs in the framework of the programme for monitoring the adequacy and effectiveness of regulations to be obsolete in order to ensure that businesses, workers and citizens have a simple and clear regulatory framework.
in writing. ‒ considering that efsa's support and cooperation with the scientific bodies of the member states on food safety is an essential tool to ensure greater consumer protection, i would like to express my vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a directive repealing directive 93/5/eec on the assistance to the commission and cooperation by the member states in the scientific examination of questions relating to foodstuffs, because the tasks of the scientific committee for food referred to in directive 93/5/eec have been transferred to the european food safety authority (efsa) and, consequently, those tasks are governed by regulation (ec) no 178/2002. efsa has become, through the aforementioned regulation, the body responsible for promoting scientific cooperation with the member states and it is expressly stated that efsa is to act in close cooperation with the competent bodies of the member states and that the member states are to cooperate with efsa in relation to its mission. it seems to me that it was logical to repeal directive 93/5/eec as obsolete.
in writing. i decided to vote in favour as the tasks of the scientific committee for food, as provided for in directive 93/5/eec, have been transferred to efsa and these tasks are currently governed by regulation (ec) no 178/2002.
the cites convention protects some 35,000 species of flora and fauna from extinction. the european union's accession to cites is a very important step, not so much because it becomes a full member of the convention, thus playing an active role within it, but rather because the union will be able to take a leading role at international level on environmental policy, especially for the protection of biodiversity where the european union has the most advanced legislation. the international trade in exotic species is worth several billion euros a year, and europe is the world's largest importer of some species, such as the boa constrictor, and the second largest importer of felines. cites is the most important instrument in the fight against the smuggling and illegal trade of many species of flora and fauna. the union's accession to the convention will only strengthen this struggle. for these reasons i voted in favour of the recommendation.
in writing. - i voted against this measure on principle: the signature of treaties and conventions should be the exclusive responsibility of the member states bound by them.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report because i think it is important that we in the european union and especially the member states take strong measures to protect fauna and flora diversity on the planet.
in writing. i voted against eu membership of cites. the signature of treaties and conventions should be the exclusive responsibility of the member states, which should have the right to legislate on these matters autonomously and in accordance with their commercial interests.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the draft council decision on the accession of the european union to the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites). since the european union has committed itself since 1 january 1984 to fully apply the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites), although it has not formally acceded to it, i believe that its accession represents a natural development in a process which will finally enable the european union to be adequately represented in the work of the convention and to play its role effectively. by joining cities, the union will further strengthen its leadership in animal protection and environmental policy, ensuring that international trade in endangered species does not undermine their survival at community and international level. i also believe that accession can increase the coherence and unity of the european union's action on cites-related issues and lead to a greater alignment of member states' positions.
in writing. the eu's accession to the cites convention, which entered into force in 1975, is an important step towards strengthening the protection of endangered flora and fauna. the vote is in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because i believe that the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora is an important international instrument for the protection of the species in question. it is appropriate and reasonable that the import, export and re-export and introduction by sea of the species covered by the convention should be authorised by means of a licensing system. i believe that cites is a logical and necessary step in order to enable the european union to achieve the objectives it has set itself in its environmental policy.
in writing. ‒ one of the main reasons why the eu makes sense is because of the role that small and medium-sized states (think of italy, which with its 60 million inhabitants is on a different order of magnitude to india, china and the united states) could not otherwise play in the big world issues. well, cites is one of those tables where it makes sense to participate as the european union, rather than as individual states. i therefore voted in favour of this proposal.
in writing. i voted in favour of this recommendation approving the accession of the european union to the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites). it is of great importance for the european union to be adequately represented at cites meetings and to be able to play its full role in the work of the convention. i also believe that joining cites is a logical and necessary step for the eu to pursue the objectives it has set itself in the wider context of its environmental policy.
in writing. ‒ the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites) is an international instrument aimed at protecting endangered species of wild fauna and flora by controlling international trade in specimens of these species. the original text of the convention provided that only states could take part in it. so far, the european union has had observer status at cites. i shall vote in favour of this proposal because it aims to enable the eu to accede to cites, to enable the union to participate fully in the work of the convention and to legally bind the eu and all its member states to implement and enforce the convention. the union will also have formal responsibilities, by virtue of which it will be held accountable to the other parties for its implementation of the convention.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european union's accession to the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora cites as it is an important international instrument aimed at protecting over 35 000 species of endangered wild fauna and flora, through a strengthened regime of control and surveillance of international trade in these species. cites, which came into force in 1975, provided that only individual states could participate. the gaborone amendment, which entered into force at the end of 2013, also allows the european union to become a party to cites, thus allowing europe to speak with one voice in this international forum and contribute more effectively to the achievement of its objectives in full consistency with the general principles of our environmental policy. i believe that the eu's accession to cites can also be an important opportunity to increase the international role of the convention, which has been contributing to the protection of biodiversity in the world for years.
in writing. ‒ the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites) is an important international instrument for the protection of endangered species of wild fauna and flora by controlling international trade in specimens of these species. the convention entered into force in 1975 and currently has 178 parties, including all eu member states. a later amendment allows regional economic integration organisations, such as the european union, to accede to the convention. however, this amendment only entered into force on 29 november 2013, as it has not yet been ratified by a sufficient number of states. i have decided to vote in favour of accession to this convention because it will enable the european commission to negotiate on behalf of the european union and act as a catalyst for the positions of the 28 member states.
in writing. ‒ once again, the eu signs up to a convention. in this case, cites, but i would like to stress that the signature of treaties and conventions should be the exclusive responsibility of the member states.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to congratulate my colleague, mrs pilar ayuso, on her excellent work on this dossier. i supported the report because i consider the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites) to be an important instrument for protecting endangered species by more effective control of international trade in specimens of these species. in addition, accession to cites is a necessary step to enable the eu to pursue the objectives it has set itself in its environmental policy.
in writing. ‒ the convention on international trade in endangered species, or cites, is an important international instrument aimed at regulating international trade in endangered wild fauna and flora. it is of paramount importance to prevent the commercial exploitation of endangered species and to restrict trade in animals and plants in order to ensure the safeguarding of biodiversity.
in writing. ‒ the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites) is a key instrument in the field of environmental protection. i think that the european union's accession to cites is a very desirable step. it will help to achieve a number of strategic objectives, which are fully in line with community environmental policy. it is for all these reasons that i have felt it necessary to offer my support to the report signed by mrs ayuso.
in writing. ‒ the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora is an important international instrument for protecting endangered species by controlling international trade in specimens of these species. a convention which entered into force in 1975 and which is now adhered to by 178 countries (including all eu member states). the original text of the convention provided that only states could take part in it, but now accession to the convention has also been opened to regional economic integration organisations made up of sovereign states and empowered to negotiate, conclude and apply international agreements in the fields assigned to them. we therefore welcome this proposal from the council because by joining cites the european union will be able to be adequately represented at its meetings and play its role in the work of the convention. the european union will thus be fully able to pursue the objectives it has set itself in its environmental policy.
in writing. ‒ mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that it is of fundamental importance for the european union to have cites as an international instrument for protecting endangered species of wild fauna and flora by controlling international trade, so that it can pursue the objectives it has set itself in its environmental policy. i voted in favour of mr ayuso's report so that the eu can express a consistent position on cites issues and play a key role in the negotiations at the conferences of the parties.
in writing. ‒ considering that the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora is an important instrument for the preservation and protection of the planet's biodiversity and that accession will allow the eu to play its full role in environmental policy, i would like to express my vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that accession to cites is a logical and necessary step for the eu to be able to fully pursue the objectives it has set itself in its environmental policy. accession will enable the commission, on behalf of the european union and thus of all 28 member states, to express a coherent eu position on issues relating to the protection of endangered species and to play a key role in the negotiations of conferences with third parties. i believe this step is a classic example of how the surrender of sovereignty to the eu can benefit the member countries themselves, who are thus strengthened by a common position presented at international level. in this particular case, as it is about the environment, it is all the more essential that the eu should speak with one voice so that it can make a stronger contribution to the protection of endangered species, which, as we know, are the "thermometer" of the health of our planet. i hope that this vote will enable europe to continue its fight for the protection of the environment in all its forms with even greater conviction and that it will be able to become a world leader in this respect by setting a good example for other continents.
in writing. ‒ i am pleased that the gaborone amendment has entered into force and that the european union can finally become a party to cites, which it considers a fundamental instrument for the protection of endangered species of wild fauna and flora. the control of endangered species in international trade is of great value and protects their survival. by joining cites, the eu will be able to be represented at the meetings and play its role in the work of the convention in its full capacity and no longer as an observer as in the past.
in writing. i have decided to vote against this on a matter of principle: the signature of treaties and conventions should be the exclusive responsibility of the member states.
in writing. i voted strongly in favour of the european union's accession to the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora because i believe it is time for the community to take action in this direction. cites, which aims to restrict and control trade in wildlife to protect their survival and spread, entered into force in 1975 and now includes all eu member states among its 178 members. thanks to an amendment to the convention in force since 2013, supranational organizations now also have the opportunity to join it. for the eu, this is a logical and almost obligatory step if it is to remain consistent with its often-repeated desire to protect the environment and the health of the planet. we certainly need a more uniform regulatory framework, one that leaves no room for those who want to circumvent the law. on the other hand, membership of cites will enable the union to speak with one voice against international actors with less advanced legislation in this field and to give greater weight to its own views on the protection of flora and fauna.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of morocco's involvement in the gnss, the system dedicated to the provision of a global geospatial positioning service, because this action will enhance its effectiveness for the benefit of european citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a cooperation agreement on gnss between the european community and the kingdom of morocco. in the space sector, industrial cooperation between the european union and morocco has intensified and provides an important basis for extending existing cooperation. i am referring in particular to the implementation of the european galileo system, currently being tested, for geolocation and ground navigation throughout the mediterranean region. morocco, as a country adhering to the eu neighbourhood policy, will be able to cooperate effectively with the european union in gnss research and will add value to efforts in the fields of energy and industrial production, bringing benefits to the scientific communities, businesses and citizens of both areas.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the conclusion of the treaty with morocco because it is essential to include our partner at our borders in european scientific programmes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the agreement on morocco's involvement in the gnss (european gps).
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the cooperation agreement which aims to encourage, facilitate and improve cooperation between the parties in the framework of the contributions of europe and morocco to the establishment of a global navigation satellite system (gnss) for civil use. this agreement and this system will enable users to achieve better performance, in particular in terms of accuracy, availability, integrity and reliability of satellite navigation data. cooperation activities may bring benefits in various fields related to the field of satellite navigation and synchronisation: the commission has also proposed that the community should be able to provide the community with a financial contribution to the financing of the following activities: scientific research, industrial production, training, service and market development, trade, etc.
in writing. ‒ the construction of a global navigation network contributes to the safety of civil shipping in transit between european space and third countries. the extension of the network to moroccan territorial waters is a step forward in the establishment of a single network for the mediterranean.
in writing. - the mediterranean has been, since roman times, the "mare nostrum". neighbourhood policy can and must be based on small-scale sharing, which is beneficial for both sides and which is not binding in other areas. i therefore agree to cooperate with morocco on this programme, which will enable us to obtain data which we can use not only to guide us when we drive but also to study the territory better with all the implications this may have for agriculture, for mountain policies, and so on.
in writing. i voted in favour of this recommendation approving the cooperation agreement between the eu and morocco on the civil satellite radio navigation system. this is a significant step forward which will strengthen, facilitate and improve industrial cooperation between the parties. this will undoubtedly bring benefits in these areas for citizens, businesses and the scientific community. i also believe that this will have a positive effect on relations with that country and that scientific dialogue can help to improve the delicate situation in the whole mediterranean area.
in writing. ‒ with the conclusion of the agreement, morocco has good potential to contribute to gnss research in the context of eu research and innovation programmes. whereas morocco has know-how in the field of space technologies and applications, as it intends to develop the use of satellite radio navigation on its territory and in the surrounding region, namely the mediterranean and west africa, focusing on specific applications for this region; i am voting for and will vote in favour of all agreements such as this, which represent an opportunity for growth and development.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the entry of the territory of morocco into the gnss.
in writing. i am therefore in favour of the report by mr buzek. in summary, the objective of this agreement is to encourage, facilitate and improve cooperation between the parties in the framework of the contributions of europe and morocco to the establishment of a global navigation satellite system (gnss) for civil use as a contribution to the navigation and information infrastructure in europe and morocco.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the cooperation agreement on a global civil satellite navigation system (gnss) with morocco. in the space sector, moroccan and european companies have for several years established industrial cooperation relations, which constitute a solid basis for developing and extending cooperation in this sector of great importance to both parties. the agreement will allow for closer cooperation with morocco in the field of satellite navigation.
in writing. ‒ i have expressed my agreement with the report signed by mr buzek, which confirms the european parliament's approval of a cooperation agreement on a global civil satellite navigation system with morocco, as negotiated by the council, as i believe that it is highly beneficial for both its contractors.
in writing. ‒ considering that the draft cooperation agreement on the global navigation satellite system (gnss) for civil use is an important cooperation initiative between the eu and morocco, i would like to express my vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft cooperation agreement on a global civil satellite navigation system between the european community and its member states and the kingdom of morocco because, based also on the recommendation of the itre committee, i believe that all the necessary conditions were in place and that it is a step forward towards a better and more comprehensive global satellite navigation system.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the renewal of the scientific and technological cooperation agreement with ukraine because, especially in these times, it is very important to include ukraine in the european system of scientific cooperation.
in writing. ‒ renewal, without amendment, of the agreement in force since 1998 and expired on 7 november 2014. the renewal takes place every five years. cooperation may cover all research, technological development and demonstration activities, including basic research, carried out in the following fields: − environment and climate, including earth observation, biomedicine and health, agriculture, forestry and fisheries, industrial and manufacturing technologies, materials research, non-nuclear energy, transport, information society technologies, social sciences, science and technology policy, training and exchanges between researchers. similar agreements are in force with other third countries, including russia (renewed at the beginning of the year). the agreement itself is not a problem. however, the radically changed (and deteriorated) political scenario must be taken into account: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of renewing the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation with ukraine. i believe that it is essential for the european union to renew the existing agreement with ukraine, a country which, especially at this time, has a very important role from a geopolitical point of view and has the potential to become a first-class partner for the eu. the renewal of the agreement will bring ukraine closer to the european union by opening new channels of political dialogue and establishing basic rules for cooperation on the principles of mutual benefit and non-discrimination. furthermore, the renewal of the agreement will allow both parties to enhance and intensify cooperation in areas of common interest and will allow for further exchange of specific scientific knowledge and the transfer of know-how for the benefit of the scientific community, business and citizens.
in writing. ‒ the renewal of the eu-ukraine agreement on enhanced scientific and technological cooperation is conducive to the development of relations between the two countries. however, we have our doubts about the rapprochement of the two countries, which has taken place so suddenly, given the instability with russia.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because this initiative will enable both sides to improve and intensify cooperation in scientific and technological areas of common interest and will allow for further exchange of specific knowledge and transfer of know-how for the benefit of the scientific community, business and citizens.
in writing. ‒ neighbourhood policy, in the case of the mediterranean as in the case of the eastern partnership, must pass through the sharing of relatively important policies but which act as a catalyst for a wider convergence. so let us renew the agreement with ukraine, also in view of what is happening on the geopolitical level. that is why i support this choice.
in writing. i voted in favour because i support the renewal of the existing agreement on scientific and technological cooperation with ukraine. this has already brought important advantages to the contracting parties, ukraine on the one hand and the eu on the other, in the scientific and technological fields of common interest. this renewal, which will last for a further five years, will allow further improvement and intensification of cooperation on the principles of mutual access to programmes and activities for the benefit of the scientific community, business and citizens.
in writing. ‒ this initiative will enable both sides to enhance and intensify cooperation in scientific and technological areas of common interest and will allow for further exchange of specific knowledge and transfer of know-how for the benefit of the scientific community, business and citizens. i could only vote in favour of this resolution because the agreement is based on the principles of mutual benefit and mutual access to each other's programmes and activities, in relation to the object of the agreement, non-discrimination, effective protection of intellectual property, fair distribution of intellectual property rights and effective exploitation of results.
in writing. ‒ the renewal, without amendment, every five years, of the agreement in force since 1998 and expired on 7 november 2014 should be seen in a broader perspective. now this agreement with ukraine, given the shortsighted foreign policy of the eu towards russia in the case of ukraine, cannot have my support. but i ask that, in addition to reviewing the sanctions against russia, you address the ukrainian issue seriously and objectively.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i supported the report by mr jerzy buzek because this initiative will allow the european union and ukraine to improve and intensify cooperation in scientific and technological fields of common interest and will allow for further exchange of specific knowledge and the transfer of know-how for the benefit of the scientific community, business and citizens. i am sure that the agreement will strengthen scientific knowledge and provide market access opportunities.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's draft legislative resolution on the renewal of the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation between the european community and ukraine. the renewal of the agreement will enable both parties to intensify and strengthen cooperation in technological and scientific fields of common interest.
in writing. ‒ the renewal of the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation between the european community and ukraine will allow for increased cooperation between the parties in the scientific and technological fields. it is for this reason that i felt it necessary to vote in favour of the buzek report, which stresses the need for an agreement to facilitate the exchange of scientific knowledge between the two parties.
in writing. ‒ we voted in favour of the renewal of this scientific and technological cooperation agreement between the european union and ukraine, as this initiative will allow both parties to improve and intensify cooperation in scientific and technological areas of common interest and will allow for further exchange of specific knowledge and transfer of know-how for the benefit of the scientific community, business and citizens. the agreement is based on the principles of mutual benefit, mutual access to programmes and activities, non-discrimination, effective protection of intellectual property, fair distribution of intellectual property rights and effective exploitation of results. we are convinced that this renewal will strengthen scientific knowledge and provide greater opportunities for access to the scientific and technological market for both european and ukrainian citizens.
in writing. ‒ the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation with ukraine enables both sides to enhance cooperation in technological and scientific fields, allowing for the exchange of specific knowledge for the benefit of businesses, citizens and the entire scientific community. i therefore voted in favour of renewing the agreement, so that market access opportunities can be developed and scientific knowledge strengthened at the same time.
in writing. ‒ considering that the initiative will ensure that both parties improve and intensify cooperation in scientific fields, fostering the exchange of knowledge for the benefit of the scientific community and business, and that the agreement is based on mutual access to the programmes and activities of the other party in relation to the subject matter of the agreement, i would like to express my vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ in general, the renewed agreement will be very similar to the one that expired recently: but there is also a better cooperation in science and technology, which will benefit both businesses and citizens. in addition, and this is another reason for voting in favour, the commission and the services responsible will be continuously monitoring the actions covered by the agreement and i also think it is important that the eu review is based on concrete elements such as efficiency and data collection. i am convinced that the renewal of the agreement will help to improve scientific knowledge with better market access.
in writing. i decided to vote against the agreement because it does not take account of the completely changed and deteriorated political scenario; moreover, such a rapid renewal of the agreement seems to be instrumental.
in writing. ‒as the single market, as it is structured, continues to be a source of disadvantages, inefficiencies and unfair competition, i abstained in principle in voting on this measure, which merely gives the council the task of adopting the necessary measures to sanction croatia's participation in the european economic area.
in writing. ‒ i sincerely supported the conclusion of the agreement for the croatian participation to the eea. as a neighbour country to italy, croatia must be absolutely integrated in the european market.
in writing. ‒ since croatia has joined the eu, its participation in the european economic area should also be sanctioned. the european parliament gives its consent to the council to take the necessary measures. i do not entirely agree with the application of the principles underlying the single market (movement of goods, services, people and capital), and i have therefore abstained.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of croatia's participation in the european economic area (eea). i believe that croatia's accession to the eec is a natural consequence of its accession to the european union in july 2013. as a new eu member state, it is only logical that croatia should also have the possibility of participating in the eea agreement, which brings together the eu member states and the three members of the european free trade association, namely norway, lichtenstein and iceland, in a single market providing for the free movement of goods, services, persons and capital.
in writing. ‒ the adoption of this resolution will take the necessary legal measures to complete croatia's integration process into the european economic area.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of croatia's participation in the european economic area because i believe that this is a natural consequence of its accession to the eu. for this reason i am in favour of parliament giving its consent to the conclusion of the agreement on the participation of croatia in the european economic area.
in writing. ‒ the vote on this proposal is absolutely in favour, i would say almost taken for granted: now that croatia is an eu member state, it is a full member and not a half member. i therefore think it is quite normal that croatia should participate fully in all the bodies of the member states, including the european economic area. this is a formality and should have been approved.
in writing. i supported, with my positive vote, this recommendation approving the agreement on the participation of croatia in the european economic area and three other related agreements. i believe that the participation of this country in the eea is a natural consequence of its recent accession to the european union. the agreement also commits croatia to adhering to the conditions laid down, which will undoubtedly have a positive effect on the european common market.
in writing. ‒ the agreement on the european economic area (eea agreement) was signed on 2 may 1992 and entered into force on 1 january 1994. by virtue of the act of accession of the republic of croatia, the republic of croatia undertakes to accede, under the conditions laid down in the act, to the agreement on the european economic area, in accordance with article 128 of the agreement. the eea agreement brings together the eu member states and the three members of the european free trade association iceland, liechtenstein and norway into a single market. the eea agreement provides for the inclusion of eu legislation on the four freedoms the free movement of goods, services, persons and capital in all eea states. in addition, the agreement provides for cooperation in other important areas such as research and development, education, social policy, the environment, consumer protection, tourism and culture, collectively known as 'accompanying and horizontal' policies. the agreement guarantees equal rights and obligations in the internal market for eea citizens and economic operators. in view of this, i could only vote in favour of croatia's membership of the european economic area.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the conclusion of the agreement on the participation of croatia in the european economic area, which was signed on 2 may 1992 and entered into force on 1 january 1994. this accession is a step towards the full integration of the republic of croatia into the european union.
in writing. ‒ with croatia's entry into the eu, it is now necessary to also enshrine its participation in the european economic area. the european parliament gives its consent to the council to take the necessary measures. but since the historical and political evolution of the single market is taking place in a way that is not in the interests of the vast majority of citizens but respects the wishes of individual member states, i shall abstain.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am voting in favour of the report by mr alexander graf lambsdorff. the agreement will allow croatia, the 28th member state of the european union, to join the eea agreement with obligations and benefits. this will bring together all the member states of the european union with norway, liechtenstein and iceland.
in writing. ‒ i supported the european parliament's draft legislative resolution on the agreement on the participation of the republic of croatia in the european economic area. the agreement allows croatia, the 28th member of the union, to participate with obligations and benefits in the eea agreement bringing together the eu member states with norway, iceland and liechtenstein. the agreement guarantees equal rights and obligations in the internal market for eea citizens and economic operators.
in writing. ‒ croatia's accession to the european economic area is a physiological consequence of its recent entry into the community family. i voted in favour of the report, aware that it will help to define the preconditions for the creation of new benefits for the benefit of all community states. i am pleased that the document will help to strengthen economic and trade relations between the european union and the three members of the european free trade association: iceland, liechtenstein and norway.
in writing. ‒ by virtue of the act of accession to the european union, the republic of croatia has undertaken to accede, under the conditions laid down in the act, to the agreement on the european economic area, in accordance with article 128. the agreement, which brings together all eu member states and the three members of the european free trade association iceland, liechtenstein and norway in a single market, provides for the inclusion of community legislation on the four freedoms the free movement of goods, services, persons and capital in all eea states. the agreement also envisages cooperation in other important areas such as research and development, education, social policy, the environment, consumer protection, tourism and culture, collectively known as 'accompanying and horizontal' policies. the agreement will also have to guarantee equal rights and obligations in the internal market for citizens and economic operators in the european economic area. we therefore believe that croatia's participation in the european economic area is a natural consequence of its accession to the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of croatia's participation in the european economic area, an agreement which allows the new member of the union to participate with obligations and benefits in the eea agreement which brings together the member states together with norway, liechtenstein and iceland, the three members of the european free trade association, in a single market. after more than a year of croatia's accession to the union, i believe that the time has come for its participation in the eea as a natural consequence.
in writing. ‒ ladies and gentlemen, considering that the agreement on the european economic area (eea), in addition to including the four freedoms, also includes cooperation in important development areas, and considering that croatia's inclusion in the eea is the natural consequence of its integration into the eu, i would like to express my vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ it seems perfectly logical for croatia to participate in the european economic area (eea) as it has already been more than a year since its accession to the eu. voting in favour of the agreement is the only possible option, and of course also for the three additional protocols, since the eea provides for a single market between the eu member states and the three members of the european free trade association: iceland, liechtenstein and norway.
in writing. as croatia has joined the eu, its participation in the european economic area should also be sanctioned; the european parliament gives its consent to the council to take the necessary measures. since i do not fully agree with the application of the principles underlying the single market (the movement of goods, services, people and capital), i have decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the simplified procedure to allow for the creation of a new system of partial or total exemptions from customs duties for products manufactured in the french outermost regions from 2015 to 2020, with the aim of supporting their competitiveness and development.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution because i think that sometimes we need exceptions in our internal market in order to support regions with genuine economic difficulties.
in writing. ‒ the simplified procedure is voted to allow a new system, agreed with the french government, of partial or total exemptions from customs duties for products manufactured in the french outermost regions from 2015 to 2020 in order to support their competitiveness and create development. this measure has no consequences for our production system, and i voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of the report is to establish a new legal framework allowing france to provide, until 31 december 2020, for partial or total exemptions from tax ('maritime duties') for a number of products manufactured in the french outermost regions in order to compensate for the disadvantages of the outermost regions concerned (the great distance, the dependence on raw materials and energy, the small size of the local market and the low development of export activity) and to support their competitiveness and socioeconomic development by determining the products to which partial or total tax exemptions may be applied. i voted in favour of this report today because i believe that the disadvantages suffered by the french outermost regions are still very evident and i therefore support the maintenance of a differentiated taxation system for certain products until 31 december 2020.
in writing. ‒ this measure is aid to regions which are disadvantaged by geographical location and is without prejudice to the rules of the internal market. we can only support this proposal.
in writing. - i believe that rules must be respected, so there is no chaos. at the same time, as pope francis said at the last plenary session, i believe that the rules must be interpreted so that they are not applied blindly. in this case, i am in favour of granting the derogation to the french overseas territories because i realise that they are already at a disadvantage compared to the nearest territories in terms of the competitiveness of their products. of course, since we are more favoured to export, we should balance the derogations and incentives, but as far as the internal market is concerned, i agree with the following: an isolated case, worthy of exception.
in writing. i voted in favour of this decision on maritime tariffs in the french outermost regions. these are partial or total exemptions from the 'maritime' tax, which will apply to products manufactured in the regions of the french overseas departments. i think it is right and proper to compensate for the economic disadvantage caused by the distance, the small size of the local market and the low level of exports. these measures will be able to support and stimulate the competitiveness and economic activity of these regions. i therefore support the request made by france to extend this type of taxation until 31 december 2020 and to extend council decision 2004/162/ec for a further six months, i.e. until 30 june 2015, in order to allow france the time necessary to transpose the new provisions into its national law.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because the purpose of the proposal presented is to establish a new legal framework for maritime tariffs from 1 january 2015 to 31 december 2020, determining the products to which partial or total exemptions may be applied. although the products included in the new list are for the most part similar to those listed in the annex to council decision 2004/162/ec, some new products have been introduced and others have been deleted. i voted in favour of extending decision 2004/162/ec for a further six months (until 30 june 2015) to give france time to transpose into national law the provisions of the new council decision for the period from 1 january 2015 to 31 december 2020. i also support the continuing promotion of the competitiveness and economic activity of the outermost regions, without prejudice to the coherence of the internal market and the legal order of the european union.
in writing. ‒ the report does not raise any problems and will ensure that from 2015 to 2020 there is a new system, agreed with the french government, of partial or total exemptions from duties for products manufactured in the french outermost regions in order to support their competitiveness and create development.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the report by mrs iskra mihaylova because it allows, until 1 july 2014, the partial or total exemption from the 'sea duty' for many products manufactured in the french outermost regions. moreover, given that these regions are characterized by their geographical marginality, i believe that this scheme represents an important and sufficient opportunity to offset the disadvantages caused by their geographical location.
in writing. the outermost regions of the european union, particularly those in france, need specific support in the form of targeted legislative actions, which can bring their situation as outermost regions into line with eu market standards and requirements. the report which has just been adopted concerns the case of maritime duties which will not be applied to goods coming from the french outermost regions. france will be partially or totally exempted from the 'maritime' duty until 1 july 2014 for a number of products from these regions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the mihaylova report because i believe that it is necessary to support the competitiveness and socioeconomic development of the french outermost regions, whose development is hampered by their geographical isolation and the small size of the local market. my agreement to the document also derives from the belief that the existing directives should be extended so that the commission can properly assess the new legal framework for maritime duties.
in writing. ‒ a number of council decisions authorised france to provide, until 1 july 2014, for partial or total exemptions from the 'maritime duties' on a number of products manufactured in the french outermost regions (with the exception of saint martin), in order to compensate for the disadvantages of these areas (the great distance, the dependence on raw materials and energy, the small size of the local market and the low development of export activity) and to support their competitiveness and socioeconomic development. after careful assessment by the commission, this new proposal aims to establish a new legal framework for maritime duties from 1 january 2015 to 31 december 2020, determining the products to which partial or total exemptions may be applied. we consider this measure to be justified because it aims to continue to stimulate the competitiveness and economic activity of the outermost regions without prejudicing the coherence of the internal market and the legal order of the european union.
in writing. ‒ mr president, i voted in favour of the report by mrs mihaylova on the so-called 'sea duties', those indirect duties applicable to the export of certain goods produced in the outermost regions in a similar way to the same goods produced locally. it is useful for france to have a differentiated taxation system which provides for the partial or total exemption from taxation of goods produced in the french outermost territories, in order to compensate for the disadvantages of those territories and to support their competitiveness and socioeconomic development.
in writing. ‒ whereas france has requested an extension of the differentiation of legislation on maritime duties, which currently provides for a partial exemption from the levy for a number of products manufactured in the french outermost regions; i would like to say that i am in favour of this proposal, which is intended to preserve and stimulate the economic activity and competitiveness of the french outermost regions, and considering that this decision is detrimental to the coherence of the internal market, i would like to vote in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ the 'sea taxes' are intended to provide partial or total exemptions from tax for a range of products manufactured in the french outermost regions (with the exception of saint martin), with the aim of compensating for all the disadvantages linked to the category of outermost regions, such as the great distance, the lack of raw materials and energy, a small local market and low exports, with the aim of helping competitiveness and socioeconomic development. france had requested an extension until 2020 but i agree with the commission to extend decision 2004/162/ec for a further six months in order to give france time to transpose into national law the provisions of the new council decision for the period from 1 january 2015 to 31 december 2020 on maritime tariffs (although, on close examination, the products included in the new list are mostly similar to those listed in the annex).
in writing. i have decided to vote in favour of allowing a new system, agreed with the french government, of partial or total exemptions from customs duties for products manufactured in the french outermost regions from 2015 to 2020, with the aim of supporting their competitiveness and creating development.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mobilising the egf, the european globalisation adjustment fund, for 608 workers and suppliers in the province of trento working in the manufacture of household appliances. the european globalisation adjustment fund is one of the most useful instruments and one of the most appreciated by citizens, as it provides practical help to all those workers who have lost their jobs as a result of the crisis. however, in order to make this aid as effective as possible, it is absolutely essential that the eu streamlines the european procedure for evaluating and mobilising resources for the newly unemployed.
in writing. ‒ the economic and financial crisis has led many european households to reconsider their purchasing decisions, particularly in the case of durable goods. in italy, the crisis has been particularly acute, with a very serious impact on the household appliance market (down by 16,5% from 2010 to 2013) and on the employment situation, giving priority to timely assistance to affected workers. i therefore support the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund to help the 502 redundant workers at whirlpool and the 106 redundant workers at suppliers. i welcome the emphasis on training, retraining and vocational guidance measures to ensure that people can re-enter the labour market.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the mobilisation of funds from the globalisation adjustment fund because i support european companies which can have difficulties in these times of economic crisis.
in writing. ‒ 608 redundancies in the manufacture of household appliances and eur 1 890 000 (60% of costs). i voted in favour of the measure to support employment and workers.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report today in order to support the reintegration into the labour market of 608 workers made redundant as a result of globalisation by whirlpool europe s.r.l., an electrical equipment manufacturing company located in the province of trento. the question in question also concerns whirlpool's suppliers. in 2009, as a consequence of the global economic and financial crisis, there was a significant economic slowdown, both at eu level and for the italian economy. this recession had a profound impact on the consumption choices of italian households, who had reconsidered their purchasing decisions, particularly in the area of durable goods: between 2009 and 2013 the italian market for large household appliances decreased by 16,5%. i regret that italian companies are not able to benefit more from this fund because of the lack of support from local and national institutions. between 2007 and 2014, italy submitted only 14 applications for the egf, three of them in 2007, only one in 2008, none between 2009 and 2010, seven in 2011, two in 2012, none in 2013 and one in 2014.
in writing. ‒ we vote in favour of this mobilisation of eur 1.9 million for the reintegration of 608 redundant workers.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund is being used more and more frequently. the commission has already made four requests in this last session, and they are a clear warning signal, if need be, of the depth and the length of the economic crisis which is affecting so many countries, so many companies and so many sectors. for six consecutive years, from 2008 to 2013, there was a decrease in the production of household appliances in europe and among the countries of the union; italy recorded the largest losses with 608 workers being laid off. the request submitted by italy to the european commission, which was also welcomed by the council's budget committee, to mobilise eur 1 890 000, will enable companies in the sector to temporarily stem the effects of the crisis and, above all, to support the many workers who are now unemployed. i voted for the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because i believe that the globalisation adjustment fund should be seen as an important instrument to provide additional support to workers who are suffering from the consequences of major changes in the structure of world trade.
in writing. ‒ whenever i am asked to vote on the allocation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, i am in favour and i voted accordingly, but i have been thinking a lot about how many additional measures are needed to ensure that these funds do not act as a buffer but allow economic recovery. we all need it.
in writing. i supported, by my vote in favour, the decision to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund in respect of the application submitted by italy. this grant provides a financial contribution to whirlpool europe s.r.l. in connection with the placement of 608 redundant workers. the domestic appliance industry has suffered heavy losses, in particular as a result of the difficult economic and financial situation in recent years. this recession has had a profound impact on the consumption of italian households, which have reconsidered their purchasing decisions, particularly in the case of durable goods. household appliances are part of this group of goods. i hope that today's vote will allow the reintegration of employees into the labour market and will be a signal of support for the businesses affected by the crisis.
in writing. ‒ the european union has put in place specific legislative and budgetary instruments to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade and to facilitate their reintegration into the labour market. union financial support to redundant workers should be dynamic and made available as quickly and efficiently as possible. i am voting in favour of this resolution to provide timely assistance to the 502 redundant workers at whirlpool. i also vote in favour of assessing the practical results of the training, retraining and vocational training measures provided to participants, in order to have a better picture of the effectiveness of the measures implemented and to welcome the accompanying measures following vocational reintegration and entrepreneurship.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was established as an additional instrument to support workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade due to globalisation or the global economic and financial crisis. i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the egf in the case of the hundreds of italian workers laid off by whirpool europe s.r.l. and its subsidiaries. the egf financial contribution of eur 1.89 million will be available to the italian authorities to provide workers in the autonomous province of trento with assistance in finding new employment, vocational guidance and support for the creation of new businesses. i believe that the mobilisation of the egf can provide an immediate response by the eu to workers, but i also believe that the situation of serious unemployment in our country and throughout the eu will have to find structural responses in the medium and long term in the paradigm shift initiated by the commission with the new investment plan, which has as its main objectives the creation of growth and employment.
in writing. ‒ since 2009, as a consequence of the global economic and financial crisis, there has been a significant economic slowdown, both at eu-28 level and for the italian economy. the decline in demand also affected the market for household appliances. more than 600 workers at whirlpool europe s.r.l., a company manufacturing electrical equipment in spini di gardolo in the province of trento, were made redundant. the redundancies further exacerbated unemployment in a region where the number of unemployed people has doubled since the beginning of the crisis, reaching 6.1% in 2013. i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund because the eur 1.89 million allocated will be used for training, reintegration into the labour market and support for workers made redundant. i hope that attention will also be paid to other similar crises in italy.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the allocation of the 608 redundancies fund in the manufacture of household appliances.
in writing. ‒ by voting in favour of mr viotti's report, we have given a concrete sign of europe's closeness to workers and businesses affected by the crisis and the impact of global competition. the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, initiated at the request of italy, will support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant by whirlpool europe. the whirlpool crisis is a crisis that comes directly from the decline in household consumption: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a further warning sign that the effects of the crisis are pervasive and are likely to undermine the underlying structures of the european productive economy for a long time to come. today we are able to provide support to 608 beneficiaries, amounting to about eur 1 900 000. unfortunately, we know that the requests for assistance from the member states are constantly increasing. i would also like to ask, mr president, whether the timeliness of the european response (it took eight months in this particular case!) is keeping pace with the urgency of resolving situations which are so dangerous to the lives of our citizens. i therefore wonder whether it is not time to review and make more effective the procedures and timing for mobilising the fund.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am voting in favour of the report by mr viotti. it provides for the reintegration into the labour market of 608 workers made redundant by whirlpool europe s.r.l. through the egf we are trying to ensure a system of reintegration into the labour market for employees who have been affected by the economic crisis, highlighting once again the key role that europe has and must continue to play in this period of crisis. i would also like to stress that today's mobilization concerns italian workers who are unfortunately in difficulty and that we will be able to help by mobilizing these european funds.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund is a key instrument through which the european union can effectively support workers who have lost their jobs as a result of the economic and financial crisis. the proposal is designed to support the reintegration into the labour market of redundant employees of whirlpool, an electrical equipment manufacturer. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ in the province of trento, the industrial and service sectors, both engines of the city's economy, have been hit hard by the consequences of the ongoing recession. my vote in favour of the report signed by mr viotti is based on the conviction that the 608 redundant workers at whirlpool europe s.r.l., a leader in the home appliances sector, have the right to adequate support from the european union.
in writing. ‒ today's ep vote gave the green light to the possibility of using a significant amount of money from the european globalisation adjustment fund to be used for the redundancy of 608 workers by whirlpool europe s.r.l. this money will be used in particular to promote a number of activities such as courses for the reintegration of workers into the world of work and for updating workers who have remained at home, as well as a number of aids for their subsistence. while we can only welcome this measure, which shows that the european union is ready to do its part in situations of need, we cannot but stress that the closure of the whirlpool represents a defeat for all. the economic and financial crisis which is affecting large parts of the union, and in particular our country, must draw attention to the need to rethink and revise current industrial policies. the solution to the crisis cannot be left to emergency instruments such as the european globalisation adjustment fund alone, but also, and above all, to a series of long-term measures to boost growth and development.
in writing. ‒ we welcome the commission's proposal to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund for italy to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant by whirlpool europe s.r.l., as the application fulfils all the conditions for a financial contribution from the fund. in fact, as a result of the global economic and financial crisis, there has been a significant slowdown in the italian economy, a recessionary situation that has had a profound impact on household consumption choices. in recent years, although whirlpool had invested in the spini di gardolo plant, the investment did not prove profitable due to the decline in demand for large household appliances and the consequent decline in production.
in writing. ‒ mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the report by mr viotti on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund to help the 608 workers made redundant by whirlpool europe and five suppliers and downstream producers in italy, companies affected by the increasingly severe financial and economic crisis.
in writing. ‒ whereas the italian authorities have submitted a specific application for a financial contribution from the egf following the redundant placements made by whirpool europe s.r.l. and five suppliers and downstream producers in italy; that the negative economic convergence caused by the crisis has led to a significant slowdown in the household appliances sector; the commission has verified that the application complies with the criteria for the application of the european globalisation adjustment fund, and i would like to vote in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ the protection of workers and their dignity is one of the fundamental principles on which european policies must be based. the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was set up with the following objectives: provide additional support, together with that of the member state concerned, to workers who are seriously affected by the consequences of the economic crisis. i voted for this resolution because the 608 workers at whirlpool and all the industrial workers in the province of trento are victims of a global crisis which has hit, in this particular case, the household appliances sector, with a frightening drop in household purchases. in this area, the unemployment rate has doubled since the beginning of the crisis. the financial contributions (eur 1 890 000) obtained by mobilising the fund, which are complementary to the structural funds allocated to italy, will be used for the relocation of redundant workers, their training, incentives to recruitment and entrepreneurship, and support for vocational reintegration. their use will then be monitored on a continuous basis with the involvement of the social partners. this is a strategic contribution to reshape not just the fortunes of individual whirlpool workers, but the economy of an entire manufacturing district.
in writing. ‒ as we know, the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) is designed to provide support for workers in companies that are suffering from the adverse economic climate and major structural changes in world trade, especially in this phase of a serious generalised crisis. in this case, it is whirlpool italia and, as the data showed, all the main italian domestic appliance manufacturers suffered a sharp decrease in production in the period 2008-2012 due to the negative economic situation. the reintegration of the 608 redundant workers into the labour market will be aided by the personalised services provided, such as: general and conversion training, vocational training, coaching, post-employment and entrepreneurship support, job-search allowance, participation allowance and travel allowance, as well as recruitment incentives. i hope that the services put in place will help them to re-enter the labour market in the best possible way and that all the principles of equal treatment will be respected.
in writing. i have decided to vote in favour of avoiding 608 redundancies in the manufacture of household appliances.
in writing. i supported the decision to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) with a financial contribution of eur 1 890 000 for over 600 unemployed people at the italian company whirlpool, who will be supported in their reintegration into the labour market. the company, which operates in the household appliances sector in the province of trento, has in fact suffered severely from the fall in household consumption caused by the economic and financial crisis. whirlpool is certainly not the only company to have had to make massive job cuts in italy, where companies, even more than in other countries, have been suffering for years from the pressures of globalization and the impact of the financial and economic crisis. however, it is the only case in italy to benefit from the fund in 2014, as the italian government, inexplicably, did not submit similar requests for the other thousands of redundant workers. although the fund is by no means a long-term solution, given the serious emergency situation in italy, i hope that the government will begin to devote some of its attention also to the many firms in difficulty and the thousands of workers who continue to lose their jobs.
in writing. the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund was timely in order to help redundant workers, or those who had lost their jobs, in four different companies. in particular, as regards the italian situation, eur 1.9 million was granted to facilitate the reintegration of 608 whirlpool workers in trentino who had become redundant as a result of the closure of their production plant. i voted in favour because although the egf is not the best solution, it is at the moment a help for workers. in addition, particular attention will have to be paid to ensuring that these funds are used correctly by each member state. finally, it is clear that this instrument cannot be relied upon to solve the structural problems of the economy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mobilising the egf, the european globalisation adjustment fund, to help 829 polish workers and suppliers of fiat. the egf is an important instrument but at the same time it is still too slow to achieve the levels of efficiency needed to ensure the right support for citizens and businesses affected by the crisis.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the mobilisation of funds of the globalisation adjustment fund because i support the european companies which can have difficulties in these times of economic crisis.
in writing. ‒ 829 fiat excesses plus 250 supplier excesses and eur 1 259 610 (50% of the costs). i voted in favour of supporting workers and employment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report today in order to support the reintegration into the labour market of 777 workers made redundant as a result of globalisation at the fiat plant in tychy in the silesian region of poland. according to the data, the european automotive industry has lost market shares since 2007. the commission established the profitability of the sampled union producers by expressing the pre-tax net profit of the sales of the like product to unrelated customers in the union as a percentage of the turnover of those sales. the situation was even worse at the domestic level, where the production volume decreased by around one third in 2012 compared to the 2011 levels. the impact of globalisation has been exacerbated by the effects of the crisis, which has caused new car sales in the eu to fall to their lowest level since records began. eurostat data on the employment situation in the automotive sector show a continuous decline. this is the 22nd request for assistance from poland in the automobile sector alone. i regret that italian companies are not able to benefit more from this fund because of the lack of support from local and national institutions, which have only submitted 14 applications in total so far.
in writing. ‒ we vote in favour of mobilising eur 1.25 million to help 777 workers reintegrate into fiat plants in poland.
in writing. ‒ as a piedmontese, i have a very particular view of fiat, and it is particularly strange to hear that the polish fiat wants to access european aid. the polish workers deserve these benefits too, but a much broader discussion on fiat should be made with regard to industrial policy in my region and in italy as a whole.
in writing. i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund in response to the request submitted by poland. the commission notes that the polish authorities have not provided any evidence that the aid is compatible with the internal market. it is known that the passenger car industry has suffered serious economic consequences, in particular a sharp decrease in the eu market share since 2007. due to the difficult economic situation of the car manufacturing sector in the eu and the growing popularity of asian cars, as well as the significant decrease in passenger car sales, fiat auto poland was forced to close the tychy plant and to relocate the production of the panda classic to campania, italy, resulting in a large number of job losses in the car manufacturing sector in recent years. today's vote is a sign of eu support and the hope is that it will allow the reintegration of employees into the labour market.
in writing. ‒ poland submitted an application egf/2013/006 pl/fiat auto poland for a financial contribution from the egf, following 1,079 redundancies, of which 829 at fiat auto poland and 250 at 21 downstream suppliers and manufacturers, with 777 workers expected to participate in the egf measures, related to the decrease in production at the tychy plant of fiat auto poland s.a. ('fiat plant in tychy') located in the silesian region of poland during the reference period from 21 january 2013 to 21 may 2013. i voted in favour of this resolution in order to promote the reintegration of 777 redundant workers into employment, including through training and related costs, entrepreneurial training, training grants, traineeship grants, traineeship costs, targeted interventions, selfemployment aid and recruitment incentives.
in writing. ‒ almost a thousand workers were laid off at fiat's plant in tychy, in southern poland, due to the loss of market shares in europe in the production of passenger cars. the commission also found that the union industry was not able to recover from the injury suffered by the union industry. i strongly supported this proposal to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund because it will allow redundant workers to be reintegrated into the labour market.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the granting of the fund for the 829 redundant workers at the fiat plant in poland plus the 250 redundant suppliers.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am voting in favour of mr jan olbrycht's report because i consider the decision to mobilise the egf for poland to be a clear opportunity for the reintegration into the labour market of the 829 redundancies at the fiat plant in tychy and the 250 redundancies at 21 suppliers and producers during the reference period from 21 january 2013 to 21 may 2013. in the context of the economic crisis we are going through, we have repeatedly stressed the importance and effectiveness of an instrument such as the egf.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund concerning the request made by poland for an amount of eur 1 259 610. the request concerns 829 workers at the tychy plant of fiat auto poland, an automotive company, and at its 21 suppliers in the silesian region, who were made redundant during the reference period from 21 january 2013 to 21 may 2013. it is necessary to ensure that the fund supports the stable reintegration into the labour market of individual redundant employees affected by the consequences of structural changes in world trade flows.
in writing. ‒ the profound transformation of the international trading system, attributable to the advance of globalisation and the economic and financial crisis, has led poland towards total economic asphyxiation. the european union must come to the aid of the country and its people if the burden of the economic depression is to be made bearable. that is why i thought i should express my agreement with the olbrycht report, which calls for the mobilisation of the egf to help 1079 redundant workers at fiat auto poland s.a.
in writing. ‒ mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of mr olbrycht's report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund to help the 829 redundancies at fiat auto poland and the 250 redundancies at the 21 suppliers and downstream producers. the relevant and negative fact to be taken into account is that these redundancies represent only 1/10 of all the unemployed in the tychy area alone, where the fiat plant is located.
in writing. ‒ whereas the polish authorities have submitted a specific application for a financial contribution from the egf following the insolvencies of fiat auto poland and its 21 suppliers in poland; that the economic and financial crisis has had a strong impact on the automotive sector, leading to a significant decline; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. ‒ this time the egf is being mobilised in poland to help reintegrate workers made redundant at the tychy plant of fiat auto poland s.a. as a result of the crisis in the automotive industry, which is particularly affected by a significant fall in sales across the eu. the number of redundant workers benefiting from the egf measures is 777 and i believe that the services provided, such as training grants, traineeship grants, training costs, targeted interventions and aid for self-employment, can help them to re-enter the labour market.
in writing. i have decided to vote in favour of this proposal to avoid about 1,000 car accidents.
in writing. as with the other three applications for the activation of the egf, i voted in favour of the decision to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund in relation to the request for financial assistance submitted by poland following the massive job cuts at the tychy plant of fiat auto poland. the fund is also a useful and practical measure to contain the impact of globalisation and the financial crisis on the european automotive industry. while i therefore support the allocation of some eur 1.2 million to support the reintegration of almost 800 redundant workers, i would nevertheless like to stress that the response to the crisis cannot be entirely reliant on emergency management instruments, but requires an urgent rethinking of the entire architecture of european economic governance.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mobilising the egf, the european globalisation adjustment fund, to help 600 redundancies in the retail sector. the egf is a tangible and indispensable instrument to support businesses and workers affected by the crisis and the malfunctioning of the internal market, but it needs a more streamlined and flexible activation bureaucracy in order to have a positive impact on the lives of european citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the mobilisation of funds of the globalisation adjustment fund because i support european companies which may have difficulties in these times of economic crisis.
in writing. ‒ 600 redundancies in the retail trade (excluding motor vehicles and motorcycles) and eur 6 444 000 (60% of costs). i voted in favour of supporting workers and employment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report today in order to support the reintegration into the labour market of 600 workers made redundant as a result of globalisation at odyssefs fokas, a retailer. due to the decline in the purchasing power of greek households due to the contraction of the greek economy since the beginning of the economic and financial crisis, the demand for non-essential goods collapsed and odyssefs fokas' turnover started to decrease accordingly. the decline in turnover due to the decline in consumption, combined with the lack of credit, has frustrated odyssefs fokas' attempts to find a solution. the objective of the egf is to facilitate the rapid reintegration of these redundant workers into working life by means of personalised support measures, such as information sessions, reception and registration, counselling and guidance, skills assessment, general training and retraining, vocational training, coaching, job-search allowances and recruitment incentives. i regret that italian companies are not able to benefit more from the egf because of the lack of support from local and national institutions which have submitted only 14 applications in total between 2007 and 2014.
in writing. ‒ the mobilisation of this egf of €6.5 million helps not only the 600 workers affected by the closure of a greek company, but also 500 young people in the area who have suffered a severe economic depression.
in writing. ‒ greece is a country hard hit by globalisation. i hope that these funds, even with my vote in favour, will have the effect of moderating the extremist positions which seem to be in the majority in greece and will give us a hopeful electoral result for the future. our economies are so interconnected that the affairs of the greeks have a heavy impact on other countries too and we are not in a position to stand by.
in writing. the region of attica and central macedonia accounts for 90% of the turnover of odyssefs fokas, a company active in the retail trade. the fall in household disposable income, the fall in wages and the rise in unemployment have caused a collapse in purchasing power in greece, with devastating economic and financial consequences. we all observe with concern the situation in this country, which has the highest unemployment rate among the member states, having already been in recession for the sixth consecutive year (2008-2013). the reduction in turnover due to the fall in consumption, combined with the lack of credit, has frustrated odyssefs fokas' attempts to find a solution to the 551 redundant workers. i therefore welcome today's decision to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund in response to the request made by greece and hope that today's vote will allow the reintegration of employees into the labour market and will be a small lever for the economic revival of the sector.
in writing. ‒ according to the greek authorities, the events that caused the excesses were mainly two: the decline in household disposable income, due to increased tax pressure and falling wages (in both the public and private sectors), and the increase in unemployment, which has caused a collapse in purchasing power. these redundancies will further worsen the employment situation in a country where the number of unemployed has quadrupled between 2008 and 2013 and which has the highest unemployment rate among member states and the fifth highest in the world. i am voting in favour of this resolution in order to facilitate the reintegration of the 551 workers into sustainable and future-oriented economic sectors. i also vote in favour of the need to take account of future labour market prospects and skills requirements and to be compatible with the transition to a resource-efficient economy.
in writing. ‒ due to the decline in the purchasing power of greek households due to the contraction of the economy, since the beginning of the economic and financial crisis, demand in greece for non-essential goods has collapsed. the turnover of odyssefs fokas also started to decline with the onset of the crisis. the commission also found that the company had a significant negative cash flow, which was not reflected in the profit margin. i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund to support the workers at odyssefs fokas who have lost their jobs as a result of the economic crisis.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the granting of the fund for the 600 redundant workers in the retail trade in greece.
in writing. i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to introduce a new system of aid for the greek economy. the report provides for the allocation of resources necessary for the reintegration into the labour market of 600 redundant workers in odyssefs fokas s.a., a company active in the retail trade sector. europe is once again demonstrating its mission of solidarity and its concreteness in helping those who are suffering most from the effects of a devastating economic crisis.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund concerning the request made by greece for a total amount of eur 6 444 000. the application concerns 551 redundant workers at the odyssefs fokas s.a. plant, an undertaking engaged in 'retail trade, except for motor vehicles and motorcycles'. the egf should provide timely assistance to facilitate the rapid reintegration into employment of workers made redundant as a result of the economic and financial crisis.
in writing. ‒ the greek economy continues to suffer from a deep recession. the unemployment rate has reached unprecedented levels within the country. it is in this context that we must contextualize the 600 redundancies at odyssefs fokas s.a. i have voted in favour of the vana report because i believe that workers who are victims of the economic and financial crisis and of the market imbalances caused by the advance of globalisation should have the full support of the european union.
in writing. ‒ mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of mr van miert's report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund to help the 600 workers laid off by the odyssefs fokas company in greece, a country which has been hit hard for the sixth consecutive year by a deep recession from which it is still struggling to recover.
in writing. ‒ whereas the greek authorities have applied for a financial contribution from the egf following the redundant placements made by odyssefs fokas s.a. in greece; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
in writing. ‒ as in other cases, the mobilisation of the egf is due to the global crisis affecting several eu productive sectors. odyssefs fokas s.a., a greek retail company, suffered a sharp fall in sales, partly due to the recession which has been affecting the greek economy for more than five years, with a sharp fall in consumption due to a reduction in household income and a drastic reduction in credit to businesses. in this case the company has declared bankruptcy the beneficiaries are 600 and in addition there are 500 neets. the measures envisaged are similar to the others and are undoubtedly useful: the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation of the unemployed.
in writing. i have decided to vote in favour of avoiding 600 redundancies in the retail trade.
in writing. i voted in favour of the activation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) requested by greece to stem the unstoppable rise in unemployment. the financial contribution of around eur 6.5 million will support more than 500 employees of odyssefs fokas, who have been made redundant as a result of the company's difficulties, which have been affected by the crisis and the paralysis of consumption. i can only support a measure which directly supports people who have lost their jobs because of a crisis for which they are not responsible. i wonder, however, what the practical utility and effectiveness of measures for vocational reintegration in a country with a broken economy will be if nothing else is done to help greece out of recession. europe should rather radically change the economic and monetary policies which have had a major responsibility in driving greece into the deepest recession in european history.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mobilising the egf, the european globalisation adjustment fund, to help 3,886 workers. the egf is a very important instrument, but european action in favour of workers and enterprises must be carried out not only through this form of support but also and above all by eliminating the malfunctions of the single market.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the mobilisation of funds of the globalisation adjustment fund because i support the european companies which can have difficulties in these times of economic crisis.
in writing. ‒ 5,213 redundancies, of which 3,886 were eligible for the egf and 25,937,813 (50% of costs). i voted in favour of supporting employment and workers.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report today in order to support the reintegration into the labour market of 3886 workers made redundant by air france as a result of globalisation. the redundancies of these workers are linked to significant changes in the structure of world trade due to globalisation, with a contraction of the union's market share in the air transport sector, in particular in the light of the extraordinary rise of three large airlines in the persian gulf, a trend exacerbated by the global financial and economic crisis and the increase in fuel costs. the impact of these redundancies was also aggravated by the closure of a peugeot plant in ile-de-france, the same region where air france is located. the eur 25 937 813 million in egf assistance, much of which will be reimbursed to the french authorities for the schemes already funded to reinstate workers made redundant, represents the highest amount of money paid out by the fund to date. i regret that italian companies are not able to benefit more from the egf because of the lack of support from local and national institutions, which submitted only 14 applications in total between 2007 and 2014.
in writing. ‒ this mobilisation is the largest in economic terms since the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up, and it commits eur 26 million to assist almost 4000 air france workers.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal but i do not deny that i raised my eyebrows a little while reading its contents: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. yet, in this world, that too can happen.
in writing. i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund in relation to the french claim for the 3,886 redundant workers at air france, as the international air transport sector has suffered serious economic damage. these would be linked to major changes in the structure of world trade due to globalisation, with a contraction in the european union's market share, in particular due to the rise of three major airlines in the persian gulf. this grant is the highest in terms of amount requested since the egf has been in force and we are talking about significant sums (eur 25 937 813). but i think it is right to allocate these resources to the reintegration of redundant workers and, above all, to support this sector, which is of strategic importance for the european market.
in writing. ‒ the redundancies at air france are linked to major changes in the structure of world trade due to globalisation, with a contraction in the union's market share in the air transport sector, in particular in the face of the extraordinary rise of three major airlines in the persian gulf, a trend aggravated by the global financial and economic crisis. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the amount of the compensation granted to air france for the period from 1 january 2014 to 31 december 2015. i can only vote in favour of this resolution, which aims to help the beneficiaries to re-enter the labour market and to improve the employability of all workers through appropriate training and the recognition of skills and competences acquired during the worker's professional career.
in writing. ‒ the french flag carrier air france has asked for support after laying off 3886 employees due to the major changes in the structure of world trade due to globalisation. the international air transport sector has suffered from severe economic disruption in recent years, in particular a contraction of the eu market share. the effects of these changes in the structure of world trade are due to the fall in demand as a result of the economic crisis and the rise in oil prices. i strongly supported the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund because it will support the reintegration into the labour market of the 3,886 redundant air france workers.
in writing. the european air transport sector is facing a contraction in its market share, in particular due to the rise of three major persian gulf airlines and the worsening of the global financial and economic crisis. air france has a particularly high number of redundant workers who, thanks to the adoption of today's resolution, will benefit from the vocational reintegration measures, counselling and training services included in the proposed package. although the egf is not a decisive instrument for the productive and entrepreneurial environment, it nevertheless makes it possible to provide funding for the reintegration of redundant workers into the labour market and therefore the vote on this resolution is in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the granting of the air france fund for the 5 213 redundancies, of which 3 886 were eligible for the egf.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have voted today on three more requests to mobilise the globalisation adjustment fund. the one by mr marco zanni, in particular, concerns the reintegration of 3,886 redundant workers into the labour market. the application is based on the intervention criterion laid down in article 2 (a) of the egf regulation, which provides for the redundancy of at least 500 employees of an undertaking over a period of four months in a member state. these are concrete signals that the european parliament is sending to workers and businesses in difficulty because of the economic crisis.
in writing. ‒ i believe it is essential and of primary importance that measures be taken to help redundant workers in the areas of employment, training and job protection. i therefore supported the request for a financial contribution from the egf by france following the redundancy of 5213 workers at air france, which was linked to the reduction in the union's market share in the air transport sector.
in writing. ‒ the expansion of airlines such as emirates, qatar and etihad shows how the centre of gravity of global air traffic has shifted from europe and north america to the middle east. although european airlines continue to be leaders in international air transport, they are gradually losing market shares. my agreement to the report signed by mr zanni reflects my conviction that the egf must be mobilised promptly to help the 5213 people who have been made redundant by the french airline, victims of an unstoppable global economic crisis.
in writing. ‒ mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am voting in favour of mr zanni's report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund to help the 3,886 workers laid off by the french airline air france. the economic crisis is also affecting the air transport sector, although a good share of the global market is still dominated by our european airlines.
in writing. ‒ ladies and gentlemen, whereas the french authorities have applied for egf assistance to cover the losses incurred by air france; whereas the allocation of these funds is intended to assist workers made redundant as a result of structural changes in world trade; i would like to express my vote in favour of the proposal, which is that the european union should be able to take action to combat the spread of the disease.
in writing. ‒ in the case of the application for redundancy of air france, it is also right to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund to help workers made redundant as a result of the crisis affecting the civil aviation sector. the french authorities argue - and i share their analysis - that although the international air transport market is still dominated by european airlines on a global scale, the sector has suffered a serious economic disruption, with a significant decrease in the eu's market share. the request concerns a very large number of 5 213 redundancies, of which 3 886 were granted assistance. i voted in favour of this resolution because i thought it would be a good idea to help the redundant workers at air france who will benefit from measures co-financed by the egf to reintegrate into the labour market through a package of personalised services.
in writing. i voted in favour of mobilising the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for all four requests for financial assistance submitted by france, italy, poland and greece to support workers in companies affected by the negative impact of global competition and the crisis. in particular, the zanni report concerns the mobilisation of over eur 25 million to support the reintegration of almost 4000 redundant air france workers. in recent years, the french airline has suffered the consequences of the sharp contraction in the air transport sector within the eu, due to the rapid advance of the persian gulf airlines in an unfavourable context of financial crisis and economic recession. this is the largest financial contribution to date from the egf to support the implementation of counselling and job-orientation services, retraining courses, entrepreneurship grants and mobility allowances. i therefore considered it important to support this decision which is intended to alleviate the serious employment emergency in the ile-de-france region, where air france's losses are concentrated, aggravated by the closure of the peugeot citroën car plant.
in writing. ‒ i voted for these members for the resolution board because i think they have the competence and the qualifications to do the best work in this new single resolution board.
in writing. ‒ the consultation procedure asks parliament to give an opinion on the appointments proposed by the european commission to the board of the 'single resolution committee'. the president is german and the vice-president is finnish. the board is defined by regulation (eu) no 806/2014 which lays down uniform rules and a uniform procedure for the resolution of credit institutions and certain investment firms. it acts to regulate the so-called 'single resolution mechanism' introduced by regulation (eu) no 1093/2010 establishing the european supervisory authority (european banking authority). i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the candidates for membership of the single resolution board. the commission notes that the bank's capital needs are not covered by the banking communication, which is not yet available. the innovative profile of this body is that the composition of its executive body does not directly reflect mechanisms of intergovernmental compromise, but rather draws on those more purely managerial logics that have never been applied, or at least stated, at the level of the european union with equal vigour: the chairman and the other four members are appointed on the basis of merit, competence, knowledge of banking and financial matters and experience in financial supervision and regulation and banking resolution.
in writing. ‒ the establishment of a crisis resolution committee is a due act towards those who have sacrificed so much because of austerity policies. the troika's resolution of banking crises has not been transparent, so we support the appointment of the single committee as it centralises decision-making power and makes it possible to identify those responsible when the solutions adopted do more harm than good.
in writing. ‒ the candidates were examined by their colleagues in the committee on economic and monetary affairs and found to be suitable for the tasks assigned to them. i have also seen the documents and i share their conclusions: i have given them my confidence at the moment, by voting in favour; but i am prepared to do my best to ensure that they act in the interests of europe and above all of the european businesses and citizens who need to get out of this crisis.
in writing. i voted in favour of the commission's proposal to appoint six members to the single resolution board, the independent authority responsible for managing the resolution of failing banks. this committee, which together with the national authorities has centralised resolution power for the member states, plays a very important role in the proper, effective and consistent functioning of the single resolution mechanism (srm). as provided for in regulation (eu) no 806/2014, and in particular in relation to the senior tasks to be performed, members shall be appointed on the basis of merit, competence, knowledge of banking and financial matters and experience in financial supervision/regulation and resolution of institutions. the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy has been asked to draw up a report on the economic situation in the community.
in writing. ‒ the single resolution board (srb), the second pillar of the banking union, will be responsible for preparing plans for the 'orderly failure' of banks in difficulty, after the ecb, which is responsible for supervision, has signalled the risk of default. after the positive hearings of candidates held in the committee on economic and monetary affairs (econ) in recent weeks, i have decided to approve the appointment of the six members of the single resolution authority for banks.
in writing. ‒ parliament is asked to give an opinion on the appointments proposed by the european commission to the board of the 'single resolution committee'. i shall vote against because i believe that this financial and banking system must be completely reformed. the committee will act to regulate the so-called 'single resolution mechanism' introduced by regulation (eu) no 1093/2010 establishing the european supervisory authority (banking).
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am voting in favour of mr roberto gualteri's report, as i support the nomination of the following candidates as members of the committee. the committee also welcomed the appointment of mr elke konig as president, mr timo loyttyniemi as vice-president and mr mauro grande, mr antonio carrascosa, ms joanne kellermann and mr dominique laboureix as members. the single resolution board is responsible for supervising banks in the euro area and in all member states that decide to join the banking union.
in writing. after the vote in the econ committee on monday and the hearings last week, we voted today on the appointment of the chair and vice-chairs of the new single resolution mechanism. as announced, the resolution mechanism completes the reforms of the new single european supervisory system following the entry into force of the single supervisory mechanism last month. the commission has also provided a detailed analysis of the measures taken by the member states to address the specific problems of the banking sector in the union.
in writing. ‒ the single resolution board for the banking union is responsible for supervising banks in the euro area and in other member states that decide to join the banking union. i voted in favour of the gualtieri report and i support the nomination of the following candidates as members of the committee: mr. elke könig, as chairman of the committee; mr. timo löyttyniemi, as vice-chairman of the committee; mr. mauro grande, as a member of the committee; mr. antonio carrascosa, as a member of the committee; ms. joanne kellermann, as a member of the committee, and mr. dominique laboureix, as a member of the committee.
in writing. ‒ in line with the group's position, i would like to express my vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ based on the evaluations made by the committee responsible (and the final vote, with a very large majority in favour), also thanks to the introductory statement made by the candidates and the hearings held, i voted in favour of the resolution, certain that the choices made are the most valid for the smooth functioning of the single resolution committee.
in writing. the process for appointing the members of the single resolution board has been opaque from the outset. the european parliament was kept in the dark about the names proposed by the commission. in addition, meps would have to submit written requests for access to information on the proposed persons. the hearings were mostly held behind closed doors. the personalities proposed were also from rigorous northern european countries and had previous ties to the banking sector. this has raised serious doubts about the independence of the committee itself and its specific competence. during the hearings the proposed members gave vague and imprecise answers, showing a superficial knowledge of the banking crisis resolution system. i therefore expressed my disappointment by voting against the report on the appointment of the single resolution board for banking crises.
it's a blue-card question. i'm not sure what it is. i would like to ask mr farage whether he has not forgotten to ask, in addition to the legislation concerning luxembourg, whether his country has not also benefited from that legislation. secondly, i am pleased to see that the british flag is no longer flying in front of this whole group. does that mean that you recognize that this is a european parliament and not a united kingdom parliament?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, like mr lambert, i too have a scientific background and a tendency to look at figures. i'll give you some. air pollution is the cause of over 400 000 000 premature deaths every year and what is the juncker commission doing? he's withdrawing from his investment plan in the clean air package. the commission itself estimates that efficient use of resources can create 580 000 new jobs, making europe more competitive and reducing demand for resources, which are increasingly scarce and expensive. but what does the juncker commission do? withdraw the circular economy package from its investment plan. we lose about 600 million tons of materials in waste every year, which could be recycled or reused. these materials could bring net savings of €600 billion each year, while reducing total greenhouse gas emissions by 2% to 4% per year. but what does the juncker commission do? the waste directive is withdrawn from its investment plan. are our health care systems rife with waste and fraud that weigh heavily on the pockets of citizens? the juncker commission is deleting the dossier on the transparency of the price of medicines. are we living in a time of extreme economic crisis with citizens being forced to beg and businessmen committing suicide? the juncker commission is throwing away years and years of work by hundreds of employees who have prepared those proposals and is wasting a sea of public resources used to finance various studies, feasibility assessments, effectiveness assessments. ladies and gentlemen, we do not take this commission to task because they are our enemies and they are the enemies of the people and we knew they would do all this. we are against you, those members of this parliament who voted for them, who continue to support them and who are not outraged by all the filth you are seeing.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in his speech president juncker highlighted the fight against tax evasion, fairness and the promotion of tax fairness. it is strange, however, that nothing specific is read in the whole programme. perhaps a small directive that shows how we can also fight and prevent trafficking, anomalies, laws or trifles, such as those that have delighted us in recent years and which have encouraged the massive tax evasion of multinationals to the detriment of honest taxpayers. now, there is a fact, dear president juncker. there is a country, a member of the european union, where not only are there no measures to this effect but honest citizens are persecuted, and that country is yours, mr president juncker, although it is true that in luxembourg an investigation has even been opened against antoine daltour, that is, the honest citizen, the honest official, who uncovered this shameful scandal that should have prevented her from becoming president of the european commission. i'm very happy for you. i believe that the way forward is quite different, namely to free our countries from the prison of the euro, to restore monetary sovereignty to our peoples and to free ourselves from the bilderbergers, the trilateralists, such as you.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr president junker, commissioners, we appreciate the starting point, which is that of discontinuity with regard to the past. but we say to you that this point must be taken to the end. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community, but that we should be concerned about the future of the community. we are not there from that point of view, as our colleague mr guerrero has said. so, alongside the selection effort, which is fine, also a more organic division of the individual measures around priorities; we want better regulation, but we also want better implementation. there is too much bureaucratic elephantine, too many inadequate procedures, too much outsourcing of work. we also need more transparency. but what i want to say in substance is that if the implementation of the investment plan bearing your name, mr juncker, is central and immediate, then the economic policy issues must also be tackled immediately. there will be no investment and no growth unless we fix some things. we had a very interesting debate this morning on flexibility, on revising the rules or on implementation, with a different approach to the existing rules. we want to reassure you and i would like to see what was said in the debate this morning reflected in the first commission documents. on the flexibility document we are all waiting for as a sort of post-christmas cadeau, we want i speak for my country, 40% of italian voters chose my party which has made a proposal for a stronger europe but a different europe a flexibility that is smart, that is useful for the common goal of growth; we want good investment, good spending, and therefore flexibility that helps gdp growth and not that ruins public finances. stop thinking about flexibility at unnecessary public expense! we are talking about flexibility in investment, in the co-financing of projects under agenda 2020, in the co-financing of projects under the juncker plan, in the co-financing of projects under the structural funds. the debate must be included in the commission's first acts. then we want more social initiatives. we really liked that triple a. we want to work for that. we want initiatives for culture, for the social economy, the withdrawal of the foundations and finally, in relation to the specific points, i would like to refer to those environmental objectives which my colleagues have already mentioned.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too would like to ask you, mr president junker, about what you said on friday about the vote in greece. referring to siriza, he denounced those he calls "extremists" and expressed his desideratum: "i would like to see the familiar faces again". when i read your program, i thought, "these must be the famous faces who wrote it". these are the faces that have led europe to impoverish and disintegrate. they are the faces who conceived one of the most empty chapters of the program: the immigration issue is one i deal with on the committee on civil liberties. the migrations are seen through yesterday's glasses, you almost didn't notice their metamorphosis. today, the migration is mainly of people fleeing war or climate disasters. today we have a mediterranean turned into an indecent mass grave. there is an urgent need to review our asylum rules, starting with the increasingly ineffective dublin 3. we need people who think in new ways, including the new guilt that europe is staining itself with. do you think the new faces will help us face this reality?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr president junker, mr vice-president timmerman, as chairman of the environment committee of this parliament and on behalf of the coordinators of all the political groups, i express to you my personal and colleagues' deep dissatisfaction with the withdrawal of the legislative package on the circular economy and the similar initiative on the air quality package. we've heard your new proposal and what's just come out from the agencies about the improvements you're going to make. we are waiting to see them, but if someone would also have the opportunity to come and explain to us what improvements there will be, we would of course appreciate it. mr vice-president, we have invited you to the committee on the environment on several occasions and we are still awaiting your visit. it is clear that to justify the withdrawal of the package simply by saying that an agreement between the institutions was not possible before we had had a chance to examine it certainly seemed to us to be at least ridiculous.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, years ago, a great man, paolo borsellino, said that politics and the mafia are two powers that live on the control of the same territory: they either make war or they make a deal. that agreement often wins, as the honest citizens of my city, rome, well know, shocked by an investigation that grows more serious by the hour: 37 arrests, more than 80 suspects including politicians, cooperatives, journalists, military and businessmen. this is mafia capital. this is organized crime, increasingly cunning and ruthless. when you presented your programme, mr president, you said that it was a european responsibility to combat it. it's time to move from words to deeds. the proposal against recycling is useful but not enough. if we do not introduce throughout the union the crime of mafia-style criminal association and the most serious forms of confiscation, if we do not abolish banking secrecy and tax havens, if we do not punish vote-trading and environmental crimes, then in the end the omertà will win and we will all lose. the mobster can no longer be a person who says he doesn't exist to people who say they don't know him. the silence of the institutions, mr president, is killing. silence is the mafia.
in writing. the european commission has adopted the work programme for 2015. finally, after so many fine words and announcements, something concrete has been agreed and work should begin. the 23 new initiatives to be presented in 2015 to achieve the policy objectives so much touted by juncker are therefore expected. m5s will monitor closely and verify without any discount to anyone that all the promised objectives are actually achieved. i very much doubt that the promised eur 315 billion will actually be pumped into the real economy. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. finally, i will be very careful about the package of rules to achieve the digital single market which should also contain a proposal to modernise copyright. in this respect, i will work to ensure that the modernisation of copyright is carried out in a way that involves citizens as much as possible and that the reform allows the free movement of culture in europe to be achieved, while protecting authors, creators and consumers.
in writing. just this morning we received from the commission the guidelines for the 2015 work programme. although the objective of rationalising policy priorities is shared, there are still a number of doubts as to the method and substance. the withdrawal or amendment of 76 pending proposals, often because they are considered obsolete, appears in many cases to be justified more by political reasons such as the stalemate in the negotiations or because the result of the negotiation is too far removed from the commission's original proposal than by a genuine plan of effectiveness and concreteness. it would not be understandable if proposals were excluded on the express grounds that it was difficult to reach agreement, such as those on the labelling of organic products and the registration of radioactive material. and even more clamorous has been the scrapping of complex and long-awaited legislative proposals such as on waste and air quality. this is not the way europe can give its citizens a signal of a change and a new impetus: we therefore call on the commission to be more ambitious and to come up with more advanced legislative proposals on employment and environmental sustainability.
it's a blue-card question. i'm not sure what it is. i would like to ask my colleague, since she has asked for increased aid for immigrants and their situation in reception centres, if she has seen what is happening in italy: the scams and corruption that are coming to light. there's a great scandal: in rome, both the left and the right have been feeding off the backs of these poor people. they stole and they agreed on how much to make and take advantage of these poor people. so, before you ask for any more funds, did you ever check where they went?
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the agreement reached at the end of the regulatory period was the only way to avoid a european budget in tatters, through the system of provisional twelfths. we have always maintained our position during the negotiations. the obvious problem to be solved is that of payments, and unfortunately this agreement does not solve the situation at all, but actually makes it worse. in 2014 we got the union minimum but it was in 2015 that, in my opinion, the approach was completely wrong. it has been agreed once again to sacrifice the need for payments on the altar of political commitments. this is not serious. the figures for next year are over 145 billion for commitments and 141 billion for payments. the remaining 4 billion will therefore be added to the 20 billion which the union still has to pay. we'll be in the same situation next year. in fact, probably worse. we cannot continue in this way. the credibility of the european union itself is at stake. many parties here want to keep us on the sidelines because they say we are against the european union. it is quite ridiculous that these zealous colleagues are in fact members of the parties which govern in all the countries of the union and whose councils have risked undermining the negotiations and leaving europe without resources. the italian presidency, which prides itself on preaching change and pushing for greater investment, has been an accomplice and a guide in all this. another proof that often words are not followed by deeds or, rather, deeds are the exact opposite of words.
it's a blue-card question. i'm not sure what it is. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, some of the things you have said are interesting, and the many amendments you have tabled in the last few hours are interesting. you called the negotiations a pantomime. i am sorry, however, that you were not present at the negotiations, because we could have heard your views much earlier and probably also worked together to produce a budget that was less liberticidal, as you have called it. i would like to know what positions you think we should have changed, what positions we should have taken, and perhaps i would invite you and i would like to know whether you intend to take part in the negotiations early next year.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the agreement on the european budget must be considered a defeat for all of us, and this must be clear: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is a defeat for the council, and therefore for the member states, because they have perhaps not understood that the debts of the european union are their own debts and the bills still to be paid - over 20 billion - cause suffering to themselves first of all, or to their companies, citizens and administrations. the commission then appears a little confused, proposing figures which it considers unthinkable at first but which it then ratifies without any problems, in order to accept an agreement which is only a palliative. we are in a dangerous spiral where the european commission is asking the member states for austerity, which in turn is asking the commission for rigour, and parliament is getting a little bit stuck in the middle of this mechanism. i wonder, therefore, who still believes in this europe as it is structured, and i think the citizens are tired of all this.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am pleased to see that sardinia and solidarity are also mentioned in the new package for the 2014-15 budget. solidarity needed to bring relief to those who suffered the force and destruction of the floods, which occurred in sardinia in november 2013, which caused direct damage to the territory for more than 650 million euros. the 16 million provided by the fund will cover the costs of restoring the infrastructure, water networks and public and private buildings of the many citizens who have had to rebuild their lives. but i also ask the commission and the italian presidency today to ensure that this money is used only where it has been spent. too often regional administrations have had to deal with corruption and illegality, especially in the use of european funds. it is therefore important to monitor and ensure that every euro spent is used for the reconstruction of our land.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think it is important to recall, as the honourable member has done, that this multiannual budget contains the solidarity funds. the funds, which, as far as my country, our country, sardinia is concerned, refer to a very serious incident in which 16 people lost their lives in a huge natural disaster. i believe that tomorrow we must have a cohesive and united vote, a vote that certainly does not concern sardinia alone but also greece, slovenia, croatia, that is, a whole series of countries which have experienced the drama of situations which have upset territories but which have created further drama within poor and highly crisis-ridden systems. i believe that italy and its government should be called to account for the very demands which the commission has already represented and which concern the allocation of the funds in question. we need clarity, we need speed, but above all we need concreteness: it is not acceptable to keep these people waiting, who have lived through the tragedy and who continue to live through it, precisely because in this period they have been subjected in a particular way to a series of oppressive taxes which, of course, have not been extended or postponed for the sectors affected. i therefore invite you to vote with a strong, cohesive and united voice.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, at the end of this phase, which has been very complicated and very long, i should like to begin by thanking mr arthuis, the rapporteurs and the rapporteur on the budget for the work they have done. this phase has been really too complicated. i regret to say, even as an italian, that our presidency, which has also achieved an important result - for which i am grateful - has come too late, and this house must say so. but i have a feeling, if i may, at the end of this first stage, of a kind of disrespect for this parliament, which is also the only institution elected by the citizens of europe. i think we're gonna have to work on that a lot. certain attitudes, delays and behaviour are likely to lead us to the very edge of so-called anti-europeanism, or what some call euro-phobia. and the complexity of the system we're in today: the whole issue of unpaid bills, the issue of an even tighter budget for next year, all of this is bringing us closer to that point. every time we go back to our home countries and go and talk to young people who have projects or talk to our mayors, talk to our universities, talk to our companies and entrepreneurs, we have to have some guarantees about when we say. we cannot make promises without specifying the agreements reached between the european institutions. we must have guarantees that debts are paid and commitments kept. that is why there are concerns, both about what has not been done so far and about next year's budget. we know that in all probability we will have to deal with an amending budget, and i call for the utmost transparency, commitment and speed, because we cannot fail to honour our commitments to the people.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the agreement reached on the 2014 amending budgets and the 2015 general budget is certainly a positive one, as it has prevented the twelfths system, which would have led to a very complicated and, to say the least, disastrous scenario. but the great difficulties in achieving this result give us even more reason to proceed with a reform of the european union's own resources system. this would ensure the financial autonomy of the union. it would certainly make the whole system more effective and more focused on the objectives actually to be achieved, without affecting national reserves, which are too dependent on the limited public resources they have today. as regards the 2014 amending budget, i am satisfied that we have secured the necessary resources but i do not agree with the choice to use the 2015 funds. solidarity in the face of natural disasters or the economic damage caused by globalisation must be unlimited. if the member states do not provide fiscal relief for these affected areas, europe must do something. another fundamental point is that europe must pay its debts, because if it does not set an example in the first place, we cannot ask the citizens to be punctual in paying their taxes, not least because we have approved the directive on late payment in this house and are therefore proceeding with the clearing of debts and receivables.
in writing. it must be admitted that the agreement finally reached on the 2015 budget and the 2014 amendments is not fully satisfactory for both parties: parliament wanted more, the council less. but it will also pay off some of the backlog in 2014 and kick-start growth for next year, with sufficient funds in relation to the eu's targets. in particular, it is thanks to the work of parliament - which was able to keep the key issues in the negotiations - that the agreement was reached. the agreement does not fully meet the initial objectives, but it does prevent the adoption of the provisional financial perspective and prevents a dangerous stalemate which would have seriously damaged the member states themselves. we are aware that the funds allocated and the related measures that will follow are not yet sufficient to achieve a strong and lasting economic recovery, but we are proud that a change of pace has taken place under the italian presidency: the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union of the people.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the world food programme has stopped distributing food to millions of syrian refugees fleeing the war. without the aid provided, many families risk starvation and failure to prepare for winter, lack adequate clothing and live in makeshift tents. but vouchers are important not only for refugees but also to fuel the economies of host nations, such as jordan, lebanon, iraq and egypt. the blockade of aid could therefore have a devastating impact on the whole region, fuelling tensions and instability. i believe that the european union has a duty to give a strong impetus to the resumption of the programme, by encouraging the entire international community to contribute. in this regard, i welcome the european commission's effort to launch the eu regional trust fund, a new strategic funding instrument to mobilise aid for refugees and host communities in neighbouring countries, and i congratulate the council and the high representative for foreign affairs on the commitment it is making to finding a solution to the syrian crisis. i hope that these actions will be able to give practical help to syrian refugees and at the same time encourage the international community to take action in the same direction.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank you for your promises of cooperation, commissioner, but i am not entirely convinced by the security strategy. in too many ways, it mimics american counterterrorism: is self-celebration and is run by closed agencies europol and there is little collaboration with the bodies that should be entrusted with the definition of threats to the union council, national parliaments, european parliament. it looks almost exclusively at repressive measures, there is too little on prevention. the word 'fundamental rights' appears twice in the 12 declaratory paragraphs of the resolution. in the name of security, we know, rights have been trampled over in the last decade and more, in america and the union. i wonder whether we will continue to hear from the american senate about the torture and extraordinary renditions that have taken place in europe or whether we too will be able to admit our own errors and amend them in our parliament.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in the face of the very serious threats - let us not forget the tragic events in pakistan - i think that this security strategy shows the way, as the saying goes: it is very weak, very uncertain and very imprecise in the most serious points. you don't tell us what you're going to do about the lone wolf threat: the example of pakistan shows very clearly how dangerous this is. so, again, what measurements? and also, the phenomenon of the enormous proportions of the terrorists, of the fighters of allah, of the returning, those good gentlemen who, after becoming terrorists and warriors of allah by profession, return, perhaps to milan, to paris, to vienna, to london, and we must welcome them, open the doors to them: we are setting up a european label for the qualified terrorist! you don't say what you have to do to filter them out, to keep them out; because they must not be allowed back. they're a threat to our security. finally, the control of illegal immigrants, that all-italian masterpiece of mare nostrum: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we should have the intellectual honesty, mr president, and your political honesty, i do not dispute, to say: half of the illegal aliens who landed with operation mare nostrum were never identified. they're roaming freely in europe and we have no idea who they are or what their background is. that's some security. (the president agreed to reply to a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a blue-card question. it seems to me absolutely obvious that we need to do what is not being done, by controlling and closing the mosques and islamic centers where these characters are raised, are educated in hatred towards our civilization and our religion. not in all mosques: there are many mosques that don't do this, but there are many more throughout europe, where these lone wolves are trained and educated, and the example we just cited confirms this. just prepare politically, psychologically, legally for a terrible threat: we have to be very careful not to let the terrorists in the middle east, the terrorists in iraq, the terrorists in iraq, the terrorists in iraq, the terrorists in iraq, the terrorists in iraq, the terrorists in iraq, the terrorists in iraq, the terrorists in iraq, the terrorists in iraq, the terrorists in iraq, the terrorists in iraq, the terrorists in iraq, the terrorists in iraq, the terrorists in iraq, the terrorists in iraq, the terrorists in iraq, the terrorists in iraq, the terrorists in iraq, the terrorists in iraq, the terrorists in iraq, the terrorists in iraq, the terrorists in iraq, the terrorists in iraq, the terrorists in iraq, the terrorists in iraq, the terrorists in iraq, the terrorists in iraq, the terrorists in iraq, the terrorists in iraq, the terrorists in iraq, the terrorists in iraq, the terrorists in iraq, the terrorists in iraq, the terrorists in iraq, the terrorists in iraq, the terrorists in iraq, the terrorists in iraq, the terrorists in iraq, the terrorists in iraq. (the president agreed to reply to a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
it's a blue-card question. i'm not sure what it is. i would like to ask mr borghezio if he remembers what operation mare nostrum was, which unfortunately has ended. mare nostrum was not used to let in immigrants or people fleeing wars". mare nostrum was used to rescue people who were about to sink, to look for them in the sea and help them.
answer to a blue-card question. it 's true what the lady said: that's what it was for! unfortunately, however, despite the best intentions, the actual implementation is often disastrous. and it is disastrous that it has been allowed that, amongst so many people, many of whom deserve to have their right of asylum recognised, which is an institution before which every civilian person bows, there may have been people less qualified, less deserving of welcome and certainly this has happened and you wonder why they were not all photographed, just to be safe.
in writing. the development of an internal security strategy to counter the dangers of terrorism, organised crime, cyber crime, crossborder crime, violence, natural and man-made disasters is an important innovation in the european union. unfortunately, the results achieved do not always seem to have been up to the challenge. the commission's latest report on the implementation of the iss is a good example of this commitment, but the reality is different and often not very encouraging: for example, the eu's inability to deal adequately with the trafficking of human beings that takes place daily in the mediterranean, and the harmful consequences in terms of criminal economies linked to the management of migrant reception systems. more determined action is also needed to introduce european legislation to combat mafia-like organised crime and corruption. particular attention should be paid to the risks associated with the current economic crisis, which tends to favour illegal economies for the benefit of criminal organisations, which only aggravate the situation. finally, the issb must be combined with the guarantee of respect for fundamental rights. in this context, it is desirable to involve the european parliament more closely in the preparation of the strategy to be adopted in the coming years.
the s&d group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today, 17 december, is an anniversary. four years ago, in 2010, a young tunisian man, mohamed bouazizi, set himself on fire. that event started the arab spring. bouazizi was 26 years old and had lost his job that very day. without a job, you don't just lose a source of income, you lose your dignity, your reason for living. because work is a value that gives meaning to our lives. every hour in europe 100 people lose their jobs. it's a real war report. a whole generation is being sacrificed. you can 't pretend like this is nothing , and i 'm not doing cheap rhetoric . we either react forcefully or we are overwhelmed by the despair and anger of those who have nothing left to lose, because they have already lost their dignity. it is this europe that is suffering, i say to the honourable member. the widow, which the european council is to discuss tomorrow. the surgery you did is going in the right direction. the investment plan is a step in the right direction, president juncker. we appreciate the significance of this plan. we appreciate the turnaround. it is important to have a european investment fund. manfred, this is the real priority. we don't think about numbers, we don't think about numbers. we think about people who are suffering and why people are not suffering, we need investment, growth, sustainability and jobs. now, we have to follow through on this plan. with speed, with clarity of purpose. the new fund should focus on the riskiest investments and on certain sectors, which have been identified by president juncker. the best response to lima and to the fears that we are too timid about the fight against climate change will be to fund with determination projects that accompany the energy transition in europe. we need a more powerful plan with more resources: the commission has already made a number of proposals. we must encourage the member states to inject fresh resources into the fund. mr weber was right to appeal to his country. however, we must neutralise the member states' contributions to the capital of the fund. otherwise, none of the member states will want to participate. the debate on the neutralization of member states' co-financing of projects financed by the investment fund must also be reopened, and the communication on flexibility, which is being drawn up, may be an opportunity to deal with the issue of the incentives to be granted to member states which undertake to support the investments of the plan. to achieve all this, the commission needs the support of this parliament and we will not leave you alone and we will not allow the european commission to be weakened, as some people want, outside this house and probably also inside this house. but you don't have to leave us alone either. parliament must be fully involved in the elaboration and approval of the new european strategic fund and must have a say in its governance. the european council must speak to the suffering europe, as i said at the beginning. i see some bad signs, though. it is unacceptable that, as things stand, the work programme devotes only a few words to the fight against tax evasion, while no resources are found to finance investments which create jobs. hundreds of billions are being taken from the member states' coffers. this is a europe that is strong with the weak and weak with the strong. but this is not the europe we want. the enemies of europe are not outside our borders but are those companies which do not pay taxes, those white-collar workers who are complicit in tax evasion and avoidance. the european council must deal with these issues, mrs della vedova. the european commission has included in its work programme the measures we had requested and we thank vice-president timmerman, president juncker and mr moscovici. i take note that mr weber has become a moscovici fan. better late than never. we have always been and will always be supporters of moscovici and of any commissioner who does good for europe. president juncker said that this is a good start and a new start. but for it to be a true new beginning, it requires hard work, passionate, intense and determined. (the president agreed to reply to a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
it's a blue-card question. i'm not sure what it is. mr president, i would like to address my colleague mr pittella. in his speech he said: "we want more money". of course, the public ones, not his, not your political friends in the italian caste. so, with what face do you ask more money from italians or europeans who are working overtime to pay and maintain you. in italy, a scandal has broken out where for years his party and others, right and left, have stolen millions from the poor immigrants. you stole from the mose in venice, the expo in milan. you steal from morning to night and still ask for public money? you are a disgrace.
answer to a blue-card question. mr president, the instrumental nature of your speech speaks for itself. i shouldn't spend a lot of words. i just want to say that when you put all the weed in a bundle, you're doing a disservice to the media and the public. whoever stole must pay, without discounts and without mercy to anyone. unfortunately, thieves are everywhere, and we must fight them all together. we are a party and a great political family, deeply committed to the fight against corruption, the fight against extortion, the fight against the mafia, the fight against crime. we are working for good policy and when we ask for contributions from the member states we do so because it is invested in growth and job creation.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in the preparatory debate for this council we would have liked to have heard a completely different agenda. it would seem that if the views of european citizens were your main concern, your agenda should contain only one item: how to redistribute income and how to redistribute labor; how to tackle the widening inequalities of austerity policies. we would have liked, for example, for this council to take account of the oecd report entitled 'inequalities damage growth'. the oecd's answer is that inequality hurts growth very badly. in 20 years, rising inequality has caused a loss of 8.5 points in gdp growth. this enormous problem has affected the weaker classes in particular and continues to be a very serious social problem as well as a macroeconomic one. so to get growth back, we need only one thing: to combat inequalities; change of economic policy; investing in education and welfare; the commission will be presenting a report on the implementation of the new rules. you talk about stability for investment but you give citizens precariousness. you speak of trust when the president of the commission is involved in one of the most serious tax evasion scandals. you're talking about an investment plan that looks a lot like monopoly money. should we have hope in an empty box? we are not going to be able to do that, because we are not going to be able to do it. let me say something about the italian presidency this semester. matteo renzi often speaks of the fact that during the italian presidency measures to promote growth would be increased. it seems to me that the best workers who took to the streets in the general strike have given their opinion of the italian presidency's six months.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the six months of the italian presidency have now come to an end. six months that we had been waiting for, creating expectations for our citizens and for growth. of course, merkel will have her responsibility, as will the european commission. but the responsibilities of italy and the italian government are certainly the heaviest and most serious. the italian government has completely forgotten some priorities. the recovery of the labour market requires the rebuilding of job opportunities, and these opportunities cannot exist unless some crucial issues are resolved, at least in the manufacturing sectors. it is certainly useful to reduce the cost of hiring new people, but it is impossible to create new jobs when small and mediumsized enterprises and the craft sector continue to close. they are closing because of too many taxes and too much incomprehensible, useless and complex bureaucracy that is gripping italy and europe. the italian government has squandered the opportunity to renew the battle for made in, an essential tool for giving european businesses a breathing space and consumers freedom of choice. he has wasted the opportunity to talk about counterfeiting and illegality due to the lack of a common customs system in a free market such as the european one. nothing has been done to protect and develop the business, just as nothing has been done to deal definitively with the issue of saving immigrants, and, on the contrary, you have been profiting shamefully for 40 years - and in rome a scandal has now broken out on this subject - also on immigration and those poor people, and this will not help us, it will not help italy and not even europe. this is a mismanagement which is repeated in all the regional administrations, and which this presidency should have exercised greater control over and did not do so. he didn't say anything. these are just some of the most urgent problems which the italian government could and should have tackled if it had prepared for the semester and not to broadcast the effigy of ministers and the head of the government, who is also currently involved in a state-mafia process and it is a shame. we cannot create jobs if we do not have jobs and do not create jobs. you don't know politics, you have to leave. you've been stealing for years, you're a disgrace. (the president agreed to reply to a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
it's a blue-card question. i'm not sure what it is. i would like to ask the honourable member whether she thinks she is in the italian parliament or whether she knows she is in the european parliament. we are talking about the commission's programme, of which it has said absolutely nothing. i think that the italian presidency has been a great success, together with all the other members of the european union, because we all win together or we all lose together, simply by laying the foundations for this plan, which i will also be speaking about later on if i ever get to speak. but you haven't said anything about your views on this issue, which is what we're discussing right now.
answer to a blue-card question. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, italy is corrupt, scandals are coming to light, the mafia is in rome. they've been stealing from all sides for years and if you don't solve this problem and if you don't ask europe for help, we're not getting out of this. italy is failing, it is in default and if it does not move forward, europe will not move forward either.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are indeed having a discussion today which i consider crucial. we have a unique opportunity with the upcoming council meeting. this is a debate which we have also started within the epp: i would remind you of the documents of the conference we held in dublin last spring. today, we are finally here to put into practice the things we said to each other, the paths we said we wanted to take. i am asking president juncker, in whom we have placed our trust, to give this investment plan the chance to become an opportunity to review the many imbalances and asymmetries that exist in our europe and in the eurozone, and which, if not tackled head on, risk cancelling out and undermining the effectiveness that this investment plan should have. in fact, the ecb reported in september that 100 billion in investment has gone abroad because our countries do not attract investment. so i think that's the fundamental point we have to look at. , in addition to the surplus problem which is concentrated in two eurozone countries. i think it's something we have to face up to today. we have been asking for this for some time from our american friends overseas. i wonder, and i ask you, mr president, whether it is not also this lack of will to deal with this very commercial aspect of the surplus that is making the americans wary of moving forward with the ttip treaty with force and speed, because, as you well know, the americans have not yet given the tpa, that is to say, the indispensable requirement for ttip to become a priority for the united states, which today is focused primarily on the transpacific partnership. i would like you to answer these questions and to wish the council good work so that it can deal with the issues at hand in the best possible way and restore the citizens' confidence.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this week's european council is full of new developments: a new president and a new executive. let us not be deceived. we already know what's going to happen. all those words, but no brave choice. it will not change anything for citizens, for businesses, for the unemployed and for young people without work and without a future, for our elderly. they're tired of the ads and the promises. i'm tired of hearing the same old sweet talk in here. the end of 2014 is here and the italian-led european semester is about to end. speaking of beautiful and useless speeches, president renzi made one here a few months ago. a speech that you applauded. now tell me one thing, one thing only, for which the italian people, the european people, will remember renzi. he promised us he would change this europe. in may, a few days before the european elections, renzi said: 'i want a humane europe, not a europe that is concerned with saving the banks, but a europe that is concerned with saving the families'. he then blessed mr juncker, president of the commission. thank you matteo renzi! that is ridiculous.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am one of the few who find the juncker plan very interesting if it really becomes the instrument for introducing flexibility for the member states, but using it at european level and therefore in a way that ensures that it is investment. my question is directed primarily to the representative of the presidency of the european council. is the european council aware of what this means? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the 300 billion in investment under the juncker plan over three years is not enough to close the investment gap, and so it is only through commitment that the problem can be solved.
in writing. the european council has recently shown its complete ineffectiveness and uselessness. seven years have passed since the start of the crisis and it is still unclear what is intended to be done to revive growth. the whole framework of the new european governance that was put in place after the crisis has proved to be totally inefficient and harmful. the rules imposed have forced member states to comply with stringent rules that have brought european citizens to their knees. the same rules were applied to all indiscriminately, without considering the different starting situations. fifteen years after the introduction of the euro, the european institutions have still not shown that they are capable of managing the single currency. the fiscal union was never achieved and a eurobonds plan was never launched. mutualisation of debt would have prevented the debt crisis from worsening, thus curbing all the eurosceptic currents that have spread across europe. the european council always repeats the same good intentions, but what it has done in recent years has been to sacrifice the citizens of europe to unjustified austerity which has destroyed not only the european production model but also the social model.
the next item is the vote on the motion for a resolution (doc. (for the results of the votes and other relevant details, see minutes)
i also think that this is a historic day and that the whole of parliament has voted in favour of opening negotiations freely, free from the influence of extremists and fundamentalists. my team has worked very hard, with patience, balance and passion. but i would like to say that this is a victory not of one political group, not of one party, but of the whole european parliament, because this is a victory for peace.
mr president, i ask my colleagues to delete the city of taranto from paragraph 15, because taranto is the most polluting plant in europe, which continues to violate european directives, worsening environmental and health disasters and burdening local economies. it's an economically unsustainable plant. it has already been condemned by the european court of justice. it is the subject of an infringement procedure and is under trial in various criminal cases. in taranto, the aim is not to guarantee the plant's production capacity but to ensure the revival of the whole province of taranto, economic conversion and clean-up.
in writing. in view of the free trade agreement with moldova and the russian embargo on moldovan agricultural products, unilateral concessions have been granted to moldova on three new tariff lines: apples for 40 000 tonnes, grapes for 10 000 tonnes and plums for 10 000 tonnes for the year 2015. i am not opposed to the measures taken in this particular case, and i fully understand that they are part of a temporary arrangement given to moldova to help it. however, i cannot help but note that these are concessions which have an impact on our producers and on the tax revenues of the states and the union, which we grant unilaterally without getting anything in return, but above all without these being accompanied by an appropriate impact study by the commission or the member states. i would also like to stress that it is our farmers who are paying for these unilateral concessions, who have already been tested by the crisis and brought to their knees by the recent russian embargo. i have therefore decided to abstain.
in writing. i voted against this measure which, at a very particular historical moment such as the one we are going through, confirms europe's will to continue to intervene in areas such as moldova which are traditionally under russian influence, in order to further destabilise the political climate.
in writing. — i voted in favour of this report because i think that autonomous economic preferences are good in order to develop the relations between the eu and the republic of moldova.
in writing. i voted against the measure because it harms the italian economy and is instrumental in an anti-russian policy which i do not share and which i believe is harmful to europe.
in writing. in recent years, the eu and moldova have intensified their political and economic relations, notably through the conclusion of an association agreement. due to the intensification of economic and political relations between the eu and moldova, russia has imposed a politically motivated ban on the import of moldovan agricultural products. the moldovan economy is suffering significant negative effects from this ban, in particular the key horticultural sector, which employs around 250 000 people (around 10% of the working population). eu support is therefore needed to limit the economic impact of the russian ban, in particular by granting autonomous trade preferences to the republic of moldova and in particular to its horticultural sector. the amendment of the regulation will have a very limited financial impact on the union market compared to the benefits that such an exemption can bring to the financial recovery of moldova and to support the process of agricultural reform in moldova as it seeks to move closer to european standards.
in writing. these measures have a very slight impact on the european economy and unfortunately they affect italian farmers, we abstain because it is more sensible to apply the dcfta instead of lowering the duties selectively.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text because already since 2005, following the neighbourhood policy action plan, moldova has shown that it is keeping its commitments by reforming its customs legislation and transposing it satisfactorily into its administrative practice. moreover, as also claimed by the european commission, total imports from moldova to the eu represented 0,1% of total imports into the union. while around 90% of total imports from the republic of moldova are duty-free, imports represented less than 0,01% of total imports of these products into the eu from all over the world. the corresponding loss of tariff revenue should have a limited impact on the eu's own resources.
in writing. my recent mission to moldova was very informative because it allowed me to learn so much about this country which is only three hours flight from milan. i have seen firsthand how much this country depends on agriculture for its livelihood and how potentially damaging the import blockade that russia has imposed is. since the eu is dealing with absolutely insignificant quantities, i voted in favour of temporarily opening up its fruit and vegetables to the eu.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal to amend the acp regulation, particularly as regards the introduction of the three new customs extensions for imports of products such as apples, pears and grapes. the amendment is fully in line with the provisions of the agreement signed on 27 june and with the previous actions introduced by the 2008 pca regulation, which led to the creation of a global free trade area and improved political and economic relations between the eu and moldova. i hope that the economic and trade reforms introduced under the european neighbourhood policy will intensify trade and also bring the eu closer to the rules in areas of common interest with a view to gradual economic integration in the internal market.
in writing. last november, the european parliament voted in favour of the association agreement between the european union and the republic of moldova, laying the foundations for the creation of a deep free trade area (dcfta). as a result of the intensification of political and trade relations with the eu, the republic of moldova has suffered significant trade restrictions from moscow. i therefore voted in favour of the temporary extension of the eu's trade preferences scheme, which is designed to limit the consequences of russia's political decisions towards the republic of moldova. the granting of these preferences will also have a positive impact on the republic of moldova's internal reform process and economic development and on its path towards the eu.
in writing. the republic of moldova was granted amps (autonomous trade preferences) on certain products from january 2008 until 31 december 2015. on 21 july 2014, russia imposed a ban on the import of moldovan agricultural products due to the intensification of economic and political relations between that country and the eu in the last year. the economy of this country is suffering significant negative effects due to this ban as agriculture accounts for about 40% of the moldovan economy. in order to alleviate the situation and to give them support at this critical time, i voted in favour of the amendment to the acp regulation which will introduce three new duty-free tariff quotas for table grapes, apples and fresh plums. the proposed preferences will provide immediate benefits and relief to the moldovan economy, while having a very limited impact on the eu market.
in writing. the continuing trade openings, particularly in the agricultural sector, between the eu and third countries are not in our favour. that's why i'm voting against the deal.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of mr sorin moisa's report because i believe that the european union should support the process of reforming the country's agricultural system. indeed, the introduction of new tariff quotas providing for duty exemption for fresh apples, fresh table grapes and fresh plums is a clear signal of support for the republic of moldova, which is experiencing a particularly difficult economic and social situation.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the autonomous trade preferences for the republic of moldova. this is an extension granted to moldova for an extended zero-duty quota system for certain agricultural products originating in moldova itself. the proposed preferences will provide immediate benefits to the moldovan economy. the agreement will lead to the creation of a comprehensive free trade area between the parties and further strengthen moldova's access to the eu market.
in writing. the introduction of new tariff quotas, providing for duty exemption for fresh apples, fresh table grapes and fresh plums, is a clear signal of support for the republic of moldova, which is suffering from a difficult economic and social situation. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the eu should support the process of reforming the country's agricultural system.
in writing. the autonomous trade preferences for the republic of moldova were originally introduced by the european union in the framework of the 2005 european neighbourhood policy action plan and were conditional on substantial improvements to be made to the control and certification system for goods. the commitments were fulfilled through the reform of its customs legislation by 2007 and moldova was therefore granted new autonomous trade preferences from january 2008 until 31 december 2015. due to the intensification of economic and political relations with the european union, russia imposed a politically motivated ban on the import of agricultural products from moldova on 21 july 2014 with serious consequences for its economy. we therefore welcome the commission's proposal to amend the cap regulation by introducing three new duty-free tariff quotas (fresh apples, table grapes and fresh plums) as an act of solidarity, since, according to the commission's own very detailed forecasts, the corresponding loss of tariff revenue should have a limited impact on the european union's own resources. the european producers will not be put in difficulty, because the quantity of products in question will be so small that it will be totally absorbed by the romanian market.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by mr moisa on the extension to moldova of an extended zero-duty quota system for certain agricultural products such as grapes, plums and apples, so that they can be absorbed by the romanian market, where there has been a significant drop in production last year.
in writing. the amendment of council regulation (ec) no 55/2008 introducing new duty-free tariff quotas for fresh apples, fresh table grapes and fresh plums is a support measure for the republic of moldova in its difficult social and financial environment. the amendment could support the process of agricultural reform in the republic of moldova, which is seeking to move closer to european standards, and could improve trade relations between the union and the republic of moldova. for these reasons i would vote in favour.
in writing. in the light of the increasingly close political and economic relations between the eu and moldova and the recent association agreement, with the creation of a deep and comprehensive free trade area (dcfta), moldova has increasingly strengthened its access to the eu market, bearing in mind that the 2008 pcas (autonomous trade preferences) are additional and complementary to the goods liberalisation regime in the dcfta. i therefore support the proposal for a regulation introducing new duty-free tariff quotas for fresh apples, fresh table grapes and fresh plums (the main products of moldovan fruit growers), because it will help the country in a difficult social and financial environment. moreover, the proposed preferences will be of great help to the moldovan economy but will have a very limited impact on the eu market.
in writing. - i decided to vote against because i believe that this is an interference in an area of traditional russian commercial and political influence, with the sole purpose of further destabilising the region.
in writing. ecuador has decided to join the free trade area between the european union, colombia and peru. the agreement will enter into force shortly, while for the time being ecuador is part of a preferential gsp+ system. as i firmly believe in the role of trade in promoting the development of the poorest countries, i share the need to approve an extension of the preferential tariffs now granted to ecuador in order not to lead to a disruption of trade. however, in addition to promoting the development of the poorest countries, we must also ensure that they respect the labour and human rights conventions, and it is equally important that the treaties we sign can be temporarily suspended if they cause serious damage to our producers. the rapporteur had initially proposed a system of control by the european parliament for this very purpose, giving it the possibility of suspending this provisional regime, but he unexpectedly abolished this crucial step in the final document. for this reason i have decided to abstain.
in writing. i voted against this measure which restores trade preferences in favour of ecuador. the italian presidency of the council put too much and too little pressure on us to get this vote without the adoption of amendments.
in writing. — i voted in favour of this report because i think that we need to integrate ecuador into the trade agreements we have with many south-american countries in order to create solid and fair economic relations.
in writing. i voted against the measure because it harms certain sectors of the italian economy.
in writing. today i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the tariff treatment of goods originating in ecuador, which provides for the maintenance of the level of the duty rates applicable to ecuador and applied by ecuador on the date of the signing of the accession protocol. it is intended to extend the trade preferences granted to ecuador under the gsp+ regulation, which would otherwise expire on 1 january 2015, and is intended to constitute a transitional measure to prepare ecuador and the eu for the entry into force of the eu-ecuador free trade agreement. the multilateral free trade agreement will provide a new legal framework for trade relations between the eu and ecuador.
in writing. goods from ecuador need not be subject to additional customs duties and customs duty increases: this resolution fills a legislative gap which would affect local traders.
in writing. in view of the trade agreement with ecuador, which will be negotiated from the second half of next year, i am pleased to have voted in favour of this proposal. the country's withdrawal from the gsp is presupposed by the absence of a requirement: per capita income of less than $4,000 a year. that 's what makes me happy . the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. congratulations to ecuador!
in writing. - i am in favour of this regulation, which is intended to be a transitional measure to prepare the eu and ecuador for the entry into force of the multilateral free trade agreement, which also includes colombia and peru. i also think it is appropriate that the extension of the current trade preferences be subject to certain conditions being met by ecuador, such as compliance with the rules relating to the origin of products and refraining from imposing new duties or restrictions on imports from the eu, also out of respect for european producers and investors.
in writing. i vote against a measure that re-establishes trade preferences for ecuador.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of the report by mr helmut scholz because i believe that it proposes solutions which can be accepted, since it supports the objective of applying a transitional regime pending the provisional application of the free trade agreement between the european union and ecuador. the implementation of interim measures will also make it possible to protect the current tariff regime on the basis of the principle of reciprocity.
in writing. i voted in favour of the tariff agreement for goods originating in ecuador. in order to avoid ecuador's situation becoming worse than it is now, it is necessary that ecuador continue to benefit from these preferences, without which its trade and economy in ecuador could be seriously affected. it is necessary to ensure that the customs duties applied are not increased and that no new customs duties are applied to products originating in ecuador.
in writing. negotiations with ecuador to define the right conditions for its accession to the trade agreement between the european union and colombia/peru were concluded last july. the scholz report supports the objective of applying a transitional regime, pending the implementation of the free trade agreement between the eu and the south american country. the implementation of interim measures will make it possible, on the one hand, to avoid a deflection of trade between the parties due to higher duty rates and, on the other hand, to prolong the current tariff regime on the basis of the principle of reciprocity. i find that the document proposes rational and acceptable solutions, and i have therefore decided to support it by voting in favour.
in writing. we welcome this proposal in order to avoid unnecessary disruption of trade pending the provisional application of the free trade agreement between the european union and ecuador and to alleviate the burden on european importers of ecuadorian export products. we intend to ensure that the customs duties applied on the date of the initials of the protocol of accession of ecuador to the eu-colombia/peru free trade agreement are not increased and that no new customs duties are applied to products originating in ecuador. the proposal has the merit of introducing an element of reciprocity, as ecuador will also be obliged to maintain the current level of duties on eu imports until the provisional application of the free trade agreement.
in writing. i vote in favour of mr scholz's report in order to allow ecuador to benefit from the gsp+ tariff system in international trade, in order to avoid serious negative repercussions and to put it in a worse situation than it is in now.
in writing. negotiations with ecuador for its accession to the eu-colombia/peru trade agreement were concluded on 17 july 2014. the multilateral free trade agreement will provide a new legal framework for trade relations between the eu and ecuador. the commission proposes to make the extension of the current trade preferences conditional on ecuador complying with the following five requirements: 1) compliance with the rules of origin, 2) ecuador's refusal to impose new duties or restrictions on imports from the eu, 3) maintaining ratification and effective implementation of a number of conventions relevant to gsp+, 4) cooperation with the european commission regarding the request for information on compliance with these conventions and, last but not least, 5) ecuador's continued commitment to the signing and ratification of the free trade agreement with the eu. in view of the above, i would vote in favour.
in writing. i welcome the new multilateral free trade agreement between the eu and ecuador which will expand trade relations, bringing certain benefits for all. for the completion of all the internal procedures necessary in the eu, but also in ecuador, for the application of the accession protocol, i agree with the proposal that the customs duties applied on the date of the initials of the protocol of accession of ecuador to the free trade agreement are not increased and that no new customs duties are applied to products originating in ecuador, also in order to allow economic operators to adapt to the new customs procedures. i also agree that the extension is subject to compliance with the five conditions set out by the commission.
in writing. i voted against the mobilisation of eur 2.8 billion from the contingency margin for 2014 because i believe that if waste like that of the double seating of parliament had been eliminated, there would have been no need to use it.
in writing. — i voted for this rapport because we need to finance the european programmes we voted for in the past.
in writing. i voted against. the eu has failed economic policies and still asks money from states to citizens.
in writing. i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the proposal for a european parliament and council decision on the mobilisation of the contingency margin today, in view of the fact that it once again highlights the crucial need for ever greater flexibility in the union budget. this decision was made necessary because the implementation of the eu's multiannual financial framework (mff) for the period 2014-2020 started with a huge backlog of payments, amounting to some eur 23,4 billion, and therefore it was necessary to use the various flexibility mechanisms provided for in the mff regulation, including the contingency margin. in addition, in any event, the mobilisation of the contingency margin in 2014 does not entail an increase in the overall ceiling of the payment appropriations for the mff 2014-2020.
in writing. in view of the many natural disasters that have occurred in various parts of europe and the many unforeseen payment commitments during the year, funds need to be allocated to deal with these situations and the necessary budgetary flexibility needs to be in place. the vote is in favour.
in writing. this proposal allows for an increase in the appropriations for certain budget sub-chapters to deal with emergencies. it is therefore in the spirit of flexibility, which we are calling for loudly, so that this is not the europe of technocrats. i agree with the proposal and i voted in favour.
in writing. - i voted to mobilize the 2014 contingency margin. although a compromise has been reached, it is still essential to resolve the problem of payment appropriations. i voted in favour of this as it follows the adoption of amending budget no 3/2014, which calls for additional appropriations to make up for the lack of resources needed to pay for the 2014 expenditure. the negotiations have allowed the contingency margin to be mobilised, for an amount which can be considered as the minimum possible to cover outstanding invoices.
in writing. implementation of the mff 2014-2020 started with a huge backlog of payments resulting in unpaid invoices and residual commitments, i.e. eur 41 billion more than initially planned for the mff 2007-2013; the situation is unacceptable and requires urgent measures, such as the use of the flexibility mechanisms provided for in the mff regulation, in order not to undermine the effectiveness of union policies and programmes, as unanimously agreed under the mff, and to limit entitlements to default interest and to avoid unduly increasing the economic exposure and vulnerability of beneficiaries of the union budget. i voted in favour of this resolution because it is necessary to try to solve the problem of payments in some way, including by supporting the package of amendments proposed for 2014. although it may seem a little doubtful to use an instrument designed for "unforeseen" situations to fill widely anticipated and foreseeable gaps, in any case this seems to be the only way to try to limit the situation and not to increase the existing debts further.
in writing. - the mobilisation of the 2014 contingency margin is a consequence of the adoption of amending budget no 3/2014, which calls for additional appropriations to make up for the lack of resources needed to pay for 2014 expenditure. the negotiations between parliament and the council, which were concluded on 8 december, allowed the contingency margin to be mobilised to the extent of what can be considered the minimum necessary to cover outstanding invoices. unfortunately, despite the compromise reached, the problem of payment appropriations has not yet been resolved, and a final political solution must be found during the course of the legislature.
in writing. - as the european parliament, we represent our citizens, our electors, in the highest spheres of european politics and, as their spokesman, we must take concrete positions in their favour. in a historically very difficult economic period, it is unthinkable to freeze an annual budget covering 28 countries until the following year. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that is why i fully support the mobilisation of the contingency margin in 2014 of eur 350 million in payment appropriations, against a council which has tried to reduce this amount in an attempt to maintain a tight grip on the union's accounts.
in writing. the report signed by mr deprez stresses the need to mobilise the contingency margin in order to supplement the payment appropriations under the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014 beyond the payment ceiling, and the need to pursue an ever greater flexibility of the community budget. i fully share the demands made in this document and i thought it appropriate to support it with my vote.
in writing. council regulation (eu, euratom) no 1311/2013 establishing the multiannual financial framework for the period 2014-2020 allows the mobilisation of the contingency margin as a last resort tool to respond to unforeseen circumstances. the political agreement on the ceilings for the mff 2014-2020 was reached at european council level in february 2013 and, in the course of subsequent negotiations with the european parliament, the contingency margin was confirmed. the global payment margin does not apply for the year 2014 and therefore the mobilisation of the full contingency margin for 2014 of eur 4 026,7 million remains the only available instrument to address the impact on the budget of unforeseen circumstances occurring after the payment ceilings of the mff have been set and to reduce the significant gap between the level of the authorised payment appropriations and the additional and unforeseen payment needs for the current year. for these reasons i would vote in favour.
in writing. - i have decided to vote in favour of mobilising the contingency margin for 2014 in order to unblock the execution of arrears in cohesion policy payments. despite the strong reservations about the misuse of this margin, which should be used for emergencies and certainly not to meet payments long scheduled in the budget, i can only support this emergency solution, which allows the payment of overdue invoices for a total amount of eur 3 168.2 million, for the benefit of citizens and businesses already exhausted by the impact of the crisis. given that the 2014-2020 programming period started with a payment delay of eur 23.4 billion, i hope that more appropriate instruments will soon be adopted to deal with this paradoxical situation, which only seriously undermines the union's credibility in the eyes of its citizens and the very effectiveness of cohesion policies.
in writing. i voted against this measure whereby the commission is asking to go beyond the spending ceilings at its disposal for 2014. italy, as a net contributor, that is to say, a member state which pays the eu more than it receives, cannot support the unreasonable and senseless spending policies of this overspending and wasteful europe.
in writing. — i voted for this report because is essential to have an updated budget.
in writing. i voted against. the commission has a spending margin of only eur 0,7 billion, and has therefore proposed to finance the remaining 4 by exceeding the annual ceilings for the financial year 2014 by using the contingency margin. however, the amounts thus mobilised should be fully compensated by a reduction in the ceilings of subsequent years in order to maintain the overall ceilings for 2014-2020. this is essentially an extraordinary measure of anticipation to be used as an extrema ratio. the united kingdom, the netherlands, denmark, finland, austria, sweden, france and germany criticised the commission's proposal, considering it to be legally unfounded and, in any event, premature and inappropriate. on the other side are the net beneficiary states. the compromise solution reached in the trilogue provides for a total amount of eur 3.85 billion, composed of: 0,7 margin of available expenditure; 2,8 use of the contingency margin; 0.35 the commission's proposal to the council for a regulation on the european parliament and council directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work.
in writing. in view of the serious backlog of payments, this budgetary correction contributes (even if only in a small way) to improving the situation. let us remember that the backlog is still huge.
in writing. although unpredictable and unpleasant to some, these funds allow bills to be paid that would otherwise have been unpaid at the end of the year. so welcome this amendment and congratulations to the italian presidency on having reached the conclusion of these negotiations.
in writing. - i supported, by my vote in favour, amending budget no 3/2014, concerning increased revenue from fines, interest and repayments. the commission has requested an increase in payment appropriations of around eur 4.7 billion, to be distributed across different budget lines, the majority of which - around eur 3.4 billion - will be used to stabilise the outstanding cohesion policy bills, around eur 0.6 billion for the competitiveness, growth and employment sectors for the research programmes (horizon 2020), smes (cosme), youth training (erasmus) and satellite navigation (galileo); finally, some eur 0.7 billion will be allocated to humanitarian aid.
in writing. draft amending budget no 3/2014 to the general budget 2014 as initially presented by the commission proposed to increase the estimated revenue from fines and penalties, with the aim of covering the remaining needs until the end of the year, in order to honour the obligations arising from past and current commitments. i could only vote in favour, because i think that we must try to find some solution to the problem of payments. this amendment is acceptable, in so far as it allows the situation to be somewhat cushioned, but of course we are still a long way from a stable and concrete solution.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am voting in favour of the report by mr deprez. with amending budget no 3/2014, concerning increased revenue from fines, interest and repayments, the commission requested an increase in payment appropriations of around eur 4,7 billion. they will be distributed among different budget lines. this proposal was the focus of this year's negotiations. the bulk of the funds, some eur 3.4 billion, will be used to stabilise unpaid invoices in the cohesion policy area, some eur 0.6 billion for the competitiveness, growth and employment area for research programmes (horizon 2020), smes (cosme), youth training (erasmus) and satellite navigation (galileo) and, finally, some eur 0.7 billion will be allocated to humanitarian aid.
in writing. - amending budget no 3/2014 will compensate for some of the delays in payments accumulated in 2014 and support growth, employment and competitiveness through funding for horizon 2020, cosme, erasmus and other programmes. this budget, after lengthy debates in the council, which were opposed by the rigorous countries of northern europe, will be taken from the margin for the unforeseen events of 2014, increased in due course. the budgetary rule should have respected the limits set by the multiannual financial framework for 2014, but in the face of a balance of payments of eur 4 billion out of the eur 700 million planned, we were able to approve the adjustment of this budget thanks, precisely, to the use of the 'margin for contingencies'.
in writing. i have agreed to the deprez report, as it calls for a necessary increase in the payment appropriations margin, amounting to some eur 4.7 million. i fully support the decision to allocate most of these resources to stabilising the phenomenon of unpaid invoices under the heading of cohesion policy.
in writing. i voted in favour of mr deprez's report to cover the remaining deficit until the end of the year by increasing the forecast revenue from fines and interest on top of other appropriations, so as to meet the obligations arising from current and past commitments.
in writing. draft amending budget no 3/2014 to the general budget 2014 proposed to increase the estimated revenue from fines and penalties and other revenue by eur 1 568 million and the payment appropriations by eur 4 738 million, to cover the remaining needs until the end of the year in order to meet the obligations arising from past and current commitments. the implementation of the mff 2014-2020 started with a huge backlog of payments and, of the total amount of the rdp no 3/2014, only eur 99 million is intended to cover the 2014-2020 programmes under cohesion policy. for these reasons i would vote in favour.
in writing. i wanted to support this and the other amending budgets because of a question of responsibility. the situation of the european budget is indeed dramatic, with over 20 billion in debts still to be settled. this 2014 agreement does not solve the situation, but at least allows the payment of some of the most urgent bills that are still pending. with the crisis situation and the general narrowness in all the member states, i believe it was impossible to achieve more than what has been achieved after weeks of difficult negotiations. my regret unfortunately remains for 2015, because a wrong path was chosen, which goes in the opposite direction to sound budget management: we shall increase our debts still further, because we lack the resources to cover the planned expenditure. it is a very dangerous and unimportant decision, which shows a lack of responsibility on the part of many of my colleagues in this house: i am sure that everyone will then be forced to admit the failure of the strategy chosen in this first year of the new legislature, provided they have the humility and the reason to do so.
in writing. i voted in favour of this measure which deals with the revision of the estimates of the eu's traditional own resources (tor), i.e. sugar sector contributions and customs duties.
in writing. i voted in favour. revision of the estimates of traditional own resources (tor, i.e. customs duties and sugar levies) and vat and gni bases, and accounting for the relevant uk corrections and their financing, which involve a change in the allocation of contributions to the eu budget by member states under own resources. re-allocation of eur 248 460 from the appropriations for the european data protection supervisor (due to delay in appointment) to humanitarian aid. increase in revenue of eur 3,85 billion, mainly due to the entry in the budget of fines and interest on late payments which have become definitive, resulting in a reduction in the contributions of the member states.
in writing. we agree with this draft budget which re-allocates some funds to humanitarian aid lines.
in writing. this draft amending budget is more technical than political in that it simply takes account of some additional revenue, some lower expenditure and a redistribution of resources between the chapters of the budget. my vote in favour is really a mere formality.
in writing. - i voted in favour of amending budget no 4/2014 which mainly concerns a surplus in the 2013 budget, i.e. an update of the revenue forecasts both from vat and from some fines. during the negotiations with the council, parliament decided to form a 'package' with the other budget lines to offset the higher unforeseen revenue with the payment needs contained in the other amending budgets.
in writing. draft amending budget no 4/2014 provides for a reduction in resources for the european data protection supervisor, a revision of the forecasts for traditional own resources such as customs duties and sugar levies, a revision of the forecasts for other revenue from fines. this implies a change in the level and distribution of the member states' contributions to the union budget from own resources. i vote in favour of this resolution as the adoption of the draft budget no 4/2014 will reduce the need for additional own resources for the union budget which, together with the reduction of the shares of member states' gni-based contributions to the union budget, will fully compensate for the additional payment needs required in the draft budget no 3/2014, as agreed in the joint conclusions of 8 december 2014.
in writing. - draft amending budget no 4/2014 mainly concerns a surplus in the 2013 budget, which consists of an update of the forecasts for both vat revenue and certain fines. during the negotiations parliament strategically decided to form a 'package' with the other pbrs in order to offset the higher unforeseen revenue with the payment needs contained in the other amending budgets.
in writing. - amending budget no 4/2014 concerns, in particular, the general statement of revenue and expenditure. in line with the 2014 budget adjustment for other items. the commission was again forced to raise the revenue figure to almost eur 4 billion during the negotiations. the updating of the revenue figures depends mainly on the revenue from fines and the reduction in administrative expenditure.
in writing. the document signed by mr deprez, on the draft amending budget, refers to a budgetary addition for the year 2013, which takes into account the revenue forecasts for vat and the payment of fines. the report seems to be rational and comprehensive, and that is why i thought it appropriate to support it by voting in favour.
in writing. i voted in favour of draft amending budget no 4/2014 which provides for an update and revision of the estimates relating to customs duties and sugar levies, the vat and gross national income bases, other revenue from fines, thus entailing a change in the distribution of the member states' contributions to the union budget as own resources.
in writing. draft amending budget (dab) no 4/2014 concerns a revision of the estimates of traditional own resources and of the vat and gross national income (gni) bases, the accounting of the relevant uk corrections and a revision of the estimates of other revenue from fines, and therefore involves a change in the amount and distribution among member states of their contributions to the union budget as own resources. the pbr no 4/2014 is indispensable to avoid liquidity shortages that could lead to a shortfall in execution in 2014. for these reasons i would vote in favour.
in writing. i voted in favour of the allocation of eur 47 million for sardinia, greece and slovenia, which have been hit by severe natural disasters.
in writing. — i voted for this because we need to have concrete help for the zones in the european union which have suffered natural catastrophes.
in writing. i voted in favour of the measure (attached to draft amending budget no 5 for the financial year 2014). in this case, the eu solidarity fund shall be mobilised for an amount of eur 46 998 528 in commitment and payment appropriations. activation shall be related to: the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. the commission notes that the aid granted to the beneficiaries was limited to the minimum necessary to cover the costs of the restructuring of the company.
in writing. the tragedies in italy and greece and the serious disadvantages in slovenia deserve all the financial support we can give them. i am thinking in particular of the floods in northern italy in recent months, caused by the uncontrolled use of land without adequate controls and without securing the new infrastructure. the politicians of my country must learn that building speculation in those areas leads to death and wipes out entire communities.
in writing. the political elements of this document are absolutely acceptable to me. the call for greater flexibility in the eu budget and, above all, the allocation of funds to help parts of the european territory (and italy in particular) that have been affected by natural disasters are always a principle worth supporting, which i did by voting in favour.
in writing. - whereas the european union has set up the european union solidarity fund (eusf) to respond to major natural disasters and to express its solidarity with the affected regions within the eu, i welcome the decision we have taken which will enable the affected populations to have resources to support reconstruction and return to normalcy in the shortest possible time. another problem which remains open is that of the special instruments, which are to be financed with resources in excess of the annual ceilings. i believe that natural disasters cannot be foreseen or avoided and that the union cannot and must not lose the necessary funds without prejudice to the other objectives to be achieved. i hope that in 2015 a political agreement can be reached on this point.
in writing. the commission has proposed to mobilise the european union solidarity fund following the floods in italy (sardinia) in november 2013, an earthquake in greece (cefalonia), ice storms in slovenia and the same ice storms, followed by floods, in croatia in late january/early february 2014. i could only vote in favour of this resolution because the eu commission has provided an allocation of eur 16 310 467 to deal with the situation in sardinia, which has been hit by torrential rains, which have caused river flooding and severe flooding. overall, including greece, slovenia and croatia, the appropriations amount to some eur 47 million.
in writing. the european union solidarity fund (eusf) was set up to respond to major natural disasters and to express european solidarity to regions of europe affected by disasters. i supported the mobilisation of the fund for italy, greece, slovenia and croatia. in particular, as regards italy, the eusf will provide financial support to sardinia, which was affected by heavy rainfall on 18 and 19 november 2013 which caused river flooding and severe flooding.
in writing. this measure and the allocation of these resources will be very important for sardinia and its inhabitants affected by the floods. i am voting in favour of the measure (attached to draft amending budget no 5 for the financial year 2014).
in writing. i am voting in favour of the report by mrs patricija šulin, as it supports the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund following the floods in sardinia (italy) in 2013, an earthquake in greece and ice storms causing extensive damage in slovenia. as regards my country, i would like to emphasize the funds for sardinia, which, as we know, has suffered considerable damage and which will be able to benefit from a substantial allocation to be used to repair the damage suffered.
in writing. i supported the report on the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund for a total of eur 46 988 528. several types of natural disasters have caused major damage in eu member states, such as italy, greece, slovenia and croatia, which have requested the activation of the fund following particularly severe damage. it is essential to show solidarity with the people of the regions affected by disasters.
in writing. my support for the šulin report, which calls for the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund following the floods in italy (sardinia), an earthquake in greece and ice storms in slovenia, was, in my view, a genuine act of conscience. as an italian, i can only be pleased that, thanks to the funding from the fund, sardinia, which was hit by torrential rains in november 2013 that caused the flooding of rivers and severe flooding, will finally be able to enjoy a substantial allocation to be allocated to the reconstruction and economic recovery of the affected area.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by mr sulin on the mobilisation of the solidarity fund to help the floods in sardinia in november 2013, the earthquake in greece and the ice storms in slovenia and croatia this year.
in writing. the european union has set up the solidarity fund to show solidarity with the people of regions hit by disasters. italy, greece, slovenia and croatia have submitted requests for the mobilisation of the fund in relation to disasters occurring on their territories. for the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, the amount of eur 46 998 528 in commitment and payment appropriations shall be mobilised under the fund. for these reasons i would vote in favour.
in writing. the dramatic floods that hit sardinia a year ago are still a wound that is struggling to heal, not only for the affected sardinian populations, but for the whole of italy, which is now tired of seeing its territory continuously devastated. the european parliament voted today to approve the allocation of more than eur 16 million to deal with the huge amount of damage caused by the torrential rains and floods that struck the province of olbia and its surroundings just over a year ago. i voted in favour of this appropriation from the european solidarity fund, which is used by the eu to help member states cope with the exorbitant material and moral costs of natural disasters. a sum, in this case, in absolute terms, which is high, but which certainly does not cover the entire estimate of the damage calculated. it is an important contribution, however, and one that will certainly help the people so badly affected by this tragedy.
in writing. i am absolutely in favour of the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund for those member states (in this case the floods in italy, the earthquake in greece, the ice storms in slovenia and the same ice storms and floods in croatia) where the aforementioned disasters have caused extensive damage requiring the mobilisation of the fund. although italy and greece were hit by disasters of different and unrelated nature, one of europe's worst winter storms affected many countries, causing particularly severe damage in slovenia and croatia. given the exceptional circumstances, it was useful to activate the fund quickly. i hope that the regions affected by these extraordinary disasters, which have a profound and lasting impact on the living conditions of the people and on the economic stability of the regions themselves, will be able to recover as soon as possible.
in writing. i have chosen to vote in favour of giving aid to the citizens of the areas affected by earthquakes or extreme weather events in italy and europe.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund because i believe it is important to respond to major natural disasters and to express european solidarity with the affected regions within the eu. in this case, italy is also among the beneficiary countries, which submitted a request for mobilisation due to the serious flooding in sardinia in 2013. the vote in favour of the report therefore called on the commission to provide funds to support our country. i would like to express the need for more timely approval and disbursement of the fund itself in the future, which was used for the umpteenth time for negotiation purposes during the procedure for approving the 2015 budget. in fact, an instrument based on one of the basic principles of the european union has once again become a symbol of the end of solidarity between member states.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal to mobilise the eu solidarity fund on the basis of requests to mobilise the fund submitted by italy, greece, slovenia and croatia, which relate to floods in sardinia (italy) in november 2013, an earthquake in kefalonia (greece) in january 2014 and ice storms in slovenia and croatia in january and february 2014, followed by further flooding in croatia. as regards the italian situation in particular, the damage caused in sardinia has been estimated at eur 652 418 691 and the appropriation will be eur 16 310 467 needed to help the region. it is, however, a priority and a fundamental aim to prevent these phenomena, so as not to have to resort constantly to these instruments which should remain exceptional.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, although the agreement on the 2005 budget cannot be considered sufficient and satisfactory, we as a parliament have nevertheless decided to vote on it out of a sense of responsibility. despite the efforts made, first of all, by our socialist rapporteur, mrs gardiazabal, and above all by prime minister renzi and the italian presidency, we do not think that the money allocated is sufficient. why would you do that? because the council has once again been the victim, as so often happens, of national selfishness, particularly that of germany, france and england, which have shown a strong will to conclude the agreement. parliament has, however, managed to gain a buffer against the payments crisis and has committed itself to supporting and protecting the most significant programmes, such as erasmus and horizon 2020. the priority, however, remains that in the coming years an intelligent and organic reform of the whole budgetary procedure, which is increasingly showing a series of limitations and contradictions, be undertaken.
in writing. i just voted in favour of eu aid for the 2013 floods in italy. in the flood season there have been other floods, so in a year we will still be here, as we were last year and the year before. a few months ago, genoa, the city where i was born, went underwater for the second time in three years, as did all of liguria, and the reason is always the same: a bad land management by corrupt politicians in the service of collusive businessmen who have more to gain from emergency and disaster than from safety. i'll always vote to help the territory rise, but i'm tired. tired of 30 years of emergencies. tired of 30 years of the same colour joints that have never been used for prevention and no, their colour is not red, but the grey of the concrete with which they have covered my region. so i'm addressing you citizens, you're going to vote soon. do not vote for emergency, vote for prevention.
in writing. i voted in favour of this technical measure, which frees up the eur 47 million needed for the solidarity fund to assist sardinia, greece and slovenia.
in writing. — i voted for this because we need to have concrete help for the zones in the european union which have suffered natural catastrophes.
in writing. i voted in favour of the activation of the eu solidarity fund for an amount of eur 46 998 528 in commitment and payment appropriations. the activation concerns the floods in italy (sardinia) in november 2013, the earthquake in greece (cefalonia), the snowstorms in slovenia and the same storms, followed by floods, that hit croatia in late january/early february 2014.
in writing. i voted today in favour of the motion for a resolution by the european parliament on the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund in response to the floods in italy, the earthquakes in greece and the ice storms in slovenia, all natural disasters which caused serious damage to the three member states concerned. i believe that in the face of such events, a principle of greater solidarity between states should be applied, which would allow timely and effective aid to the populations. i hope that the european union will make a further effort to give fresh impetus to measures which will help to anticipate and, therefore, to prevent the catastrophic consequences of such events by means of a wider framework of measures.
in writing. union resources should be used as much as possible for good. we will never fail to support the people affected by earthquakes and floods.
in writing. italy is a net contributor to the eu and this makes me twist my nose a bit but i understand. the problem is that often their exposure is higher than expected because they are unable to ask for funds. this draft amending budget allocates funds to the areas of sardinia affected by the floods, and therefore part of those resources are returned to our country. my vote was clearly in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of amending budget no 5 which provides for the mobilisation of aid totalling eur 47 million from the european union solidarity fund. it is an essential instrument, which ensures effective and real aid to citizens affected by natural disasters. in particular, this vote provides for funds for greece, slovenia and croatia, but above all for significant support for sardinia, which will receive some €16 million for the damage caused by the floods of november 2013.
in writing. draft amending budget no 5/2014 concerns the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund (eusf) to the amount of eur 46 998 528 in commitment and payment appropriations in relation to the floods in italy (sardinia) in november 2013, an earthquake in greece (cefalonia), ice storms in slovenia and the same ice storms, followed by floods, in croatia between late january and early february 2014. this amendment is necessary to enable us to make the contributions for the mobilisation of the solidarity fund, which directly concerns us with the approximately eur 16 million allocated to sardinia. that is why i could only vote in favour.
in writing. the european union solidarity fund (eusf) was set up to respond to major natural disasters and to express solidarity with regions of europe affected by disasters. i supported the mobilisation of the fund for italy, greece, slovenia and croatia. in particular, as regards italy, the eusf will provide financial support to sardinia, which was affected by heavy rainfall on 18 and 19 november 2013 which caused river flooding and severe flooding.
in writing. - i shall vote in favour of the report by mr gérard deprez. the proposal provides for the mobilisation of aid totalling eur 47 million from the european union solidarity fund. it is a very important instrument through which we can offer practical help to citizens affected by natural disasters. we have fought to keep the fund as such and have defended its resources during the negotiations. in particular, amending budget no 5 provides for funds for greece, slovenia and croatia, but above all for significant support for sardinia, which will receive around eur 16 million, to support the population following the disasters caused by the floods of november 2013.
in writing. - i voted in favour of amending budget no 5/2014 on expenditure for the mobilisation of the egf, the eu solidarity fund to ensure full and timely aid to those countries that have been affected by natural disasters in the last year. the floods in sardinia were the most serious, accounting for 16 million of the 47 million allocated to italy, greece, croatia and slovenia. this amending budget will be considered outside the ceiling of the 2014 multiannual financial framework to ensure timely delivery of funds to the affected areas.
in writing. draft amending budget no 5 provides for substantial funds for greece, slovenia, croatia and sardinia, which have recently been hit by terrible natural disasters. i could only support this budget amendment which will, among other things, involve the granting of some eur 16 million to support the sardinia region, which was the victim in november 2013 of a major flood.
in writing. i voted in favour of draft amending budget no 5/2014 for the release of commitment and payment appropriations in connection with last year's floods in sardinia, an earthquake in greece and ice storms in slovenia and croatia.
in writing. draft amending budget no 5/2014 concerns the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund (eusf) to the amount of eur 46 998 528 in commitment and payment appropriations in relation to the floods in italy (sardinia) in november 2013, an earthquake in greece (cefalonia), ice storms in slovenia and the same ice storms, followed by floods, in croatia between late january and early february 2014. as draft amending budget no 5/2014 is intended to formally enter the adjustment in the 2014 budget, i would vote in favour.
in writing. i voted in favour because it was a matter of providing the necessary aid to areas in the member states affected by natural disasters such as earthquakes and floods.
in writing. i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the solidarity fund because i believe that the principle of solidarity on which it is based is right and eminently european. if we are part of a european union, then it is necessary that countries and regions in difficulty are not abandoned, especially, but not only, in cases where the cause is natural disasters. my vote in favour is not only for my region, sardinia, which was badly affected by the 2013 floods, but also for all other cases where the forces of nature have seriously affected other european regions, slowing down their economic growth substantially. i believe that the contribution is insufficient to adequately support the regions affected, especially in view of the reduction in the amount of the fund itself, but also that its very existence demonstrates the willingness of the institutions to be close to and useful to the citizens. i believe that solidarity is one of the most distinctive values of the european union, and my decision to vote in favour of the measure was based on this conviction.
in writing. i voted against this amendment mainly linked to a change in the calculation and compensation of the contributions due by the member states on the basis of vat and gni resources for the years 1995 to 2013. the new allocations lead some countries to have already paid contributions back (including france eur 1 billion and germany), while others, including italy, have to pay new contributions.
in writing. — i voted for this report because is essentiel to have an updated budget.
in writing. i voted against. this amending budget is mainly linked to a modification of the calculations and offsets of the contributions due by the member states on the basis of vat and gni resources for the years 1995 to 2013. the new allocations mean that some countries are left with contributions already paid (including france with eur 1 billion and germany), while others are required to pay new contributions (notably the united kingdom with eur 2.1 billion, belgium with eur 0.6 billion and italy with eur 0.34 billion). in view of the abnormally high balances, the trilogue allowed member states to defer repayments, on a voluntary basis, until september 2015. as a result of this deferral, the total repayment entered in this rrb no 6 is reduced from eur 9,5 billion to eur 4,1 billion. this has highlighted the distortions of the 'rebates' granted to several member states (not just the united kingdom) for various reasons and the inclusion of illegal activities in gdp.
in writing. this amendment reduces the budgetary appropriations for the european maritime and fisheries fund, and we oppose these measures.
in writing. this draft amending budget has the burden and the honour of trying to redress some of the distortions that have arisen over time. the commission also proposes a slightly more gradual and fair adjustment than in the initial draft, which helps net debtor countries such as italy, especially if they have to make an additional contribution. i congratulate the italian presidency on having brought this negotiation to a successful conclusion, despite the difficult position it was in because of its own situation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of draft amending budget no 6 on the impact of the annual compensation of contributions due to the member states on the basis of vat and gni resources. a significant amount of reserves, amounting to some eur 9,5 billion, were left for the period 1995-2013. these amounts will be distributed among the member states by a corresponding reduction in their annual contribution. in view of the exceptional nature of the amount, i agree with the decision to defer these adjustments.
in writing. as this correction relates to a change in the calculation and offsetting of the contributions due by member states on the basis of vat and gni resources for the years 1995 to 2013, the new allocations would have led some countries to have contributions already paid back, while others would have had to pay new contributions (in particular the united kingdom). for the reasons stated above and to try to solve the problem of payments in some way, i could only vote in favour.
in writing. - draft amending budget no 6 concerns the impact of the annual compensation of contributions due to the member states on the basis of vat and gni resources. this update is mainly due to the fact that some reserves have been issued for the period 1995-2013, leading to a significant amount of around eur 9,5 billion. these sums were to be redistributed among the member states by a corresponding reduction in their annual contribution. in view of the exceptional nature of the amount, it was decided during the negotiations to postpone such adjustments.
in writing. draft amending budget no 6 refers to the impact of the annual compensation of contributions due to the member states of the european union on the vat and gni resources base. the document is, in my view, entirely acceptable: i therefore decided to vote in favour of it.
in writing. i voted in favour of draft amending budget no 6/2014 for the revision of the estimates of traditional own resources and the balances of vat and gni own resources. it also provides for a reduction in the budgetary appropriations for the european maritime fund and an increase in the appropriations allocated to the european ombudsman.
in writing. draft amending budget (dab) no 6/2014 concerns the revision of the estimates of traditional own resources and of the vat and gni own resources balances, a reduction in the budget appropriations for the european maritime and fisheries fund and the reserve for sustainable fisheries partnership agreements, and an increase in the budget appropriations allocated to the european ombudsman. the overall impact of the pbr in terms of revenue, following the adoption of amending letter no 1/2014, is a decrease of eur 4 095,5 million in the own resources requirement, including a reduction of member states' gni-based contributions of eur 4 515,5 million and an increase of traditional own resources of eur 420 million. for these reasons i would vote in favour.
in writing. i voted in favour of the request to mobilise the solidarity fund for an amount of eur 80 million in favour of the citizens of croatia, serbia and bulgaria affected by the floods last spring.
in writing. — i voted for this because we need to have concrete help for the zones in the european union which have suffered natural catastrophes.
in writing. vote in favour of the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund (linked to amending budget no 7 for the financial year 2014). the amount of the funds shall be eur 79 726 942 in commitment and payment appropriations. the intervention relates to damage caused by the floods in serbia and croatia in may 2014 and the floods in bulgaria in june 2014.
in writing. i voted in favour of the proposal for a european parliament resolution on the council position on draft amending budget no 7/2014 of the eu for the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund (eusf) for an amount of eur 79 726 440 in commitment and payment appropriations, in relation to the floods that affected serbia and croatia in may 2014 and bulgaria in june 2014, by virtue of the principle of solidarity that europe must give to the member states at certain particular moments. in these cases, it is essential to invest resources in preventing hydrogeological disaster in order to protect citizens and to protect them from the sometimes devastating risks of such events. the same applies to the very territories for which, despite the unpredictability of such events, damage can always be limited.
in writing. supporting families and businesses in difficulty is one of the union's duties. the vote is in favour.
in writing. solidarity between eu countries (and with the candidate countries) should go beyond mere accountancy logic, and it is in keeping with this principle that i voted in favour of this proposal.
in writing. the commission proposes to mobilise the european union solidarity fund following severe flooding in serbia, croatia and bulgaria, totalling some eur 79 million. in order to facilitate the mobilisation of this fund and to show europe's closeness to the areas affected by natural disasters, i can only vote in favour.
in writing. in may 2014, severe weather affected large areas of the republic of serbia and croatia, causing severe flooding. a month later, heavy and sustained rainfall fell on some provinces of the republic of bulgaria, causing extensive damage. i voted in favour of the proposal to mobilise the european union solidarity fund to help these severely affected regions.
in writing. i am voting in favour of the report by mr josé manuel fernandes, as it supports areas of the republic of serbia and croatia that were severely affected by natural disasters in may 2014. in addition, heavy rainfall occurred in parts of bulgaria in june 2014, causing extensive structural and economic damage. the european union, once again, through the solidarity fund, is showing sensitivity towards all countries affected by natural disasters, in line with the principle of solidarity.
in writing. in may 2014, severe weather severely affected large areas of the republic of serbia and croatia, causing some of the worst flooding ever, destroying public and private infrastructure and damaging hundreds of thousands of households. we must help the victims of natural disasters in regions that need financial support to recover from the massive damage to infrastructure and people. that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. during may 2014, large areas of the republic of serbia and, to a lesser extent, croatia, were affected by a terrible wave of bad weather. a month later, heavy rainfall fell on some provinces of the republic of bulgaria, causing severe flooding, resulting in infrastructure and economic damage. my vote in favour of the fernandes report is based on the conviction that the european union must always be ready to help the people of the community who are victims of natural disasters, on the basis of the principle of solidarity between the member states, which is the very basis of the treaties.
in writing. i am voting in favour of the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund following the floods which hit serbia, croatia and bulgaria last spring.
in writing. the european union has set up the solidarity fund to show solidarity with the people of regions hit by disasters. serbia, croatia and bulgaria have submitted requests for the mobilisation of the fund in relation to floods in their territories. for the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, the fund shall be mobilised to provide the sum of eur 79 726 440 in commitment and payment appropriations. for these reasons i would vote in favour.
in writing. i voted in favour of the proposal because the measure under voting is intended to repair the damage caused by floods which have had a terrible impact on the affected areas.
in writing. i voted in favour of the technical measure making the solidarity fund available to the citizens of croatia, serbia and bulgaria affected by the floods last spring.
in writing. — i voted for this because we need to have a concrete help for the zones in the european union which have suffered natural catastrophes.
in writing. i voted in favour of the activation of the eu solidarity fund for an amount of eur 79 726 942 in commitment and payment appropriations to compensate for the damage caused by the floods in serbia and croatia in may 2014 and the floods in bulgaria in june 2014.
in writing. we strongly support the allocation of additional resources to provide relief to the serbian, croatian and bulgarian populations affected by the many floods.
in writing. i voted in favour of this draft amending budget but i note two open political questions: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. both of these aspects lead to much deeper political reflections, which i will carry with me for the rest of my term.
in writing. - i voted in favour of amending budget no 7 on the activation of the european union solidarity fund for an amount of eur 79 726 942. the amount of assigned revenue in accordance with article 21 (3) of the financial regulation is estimated at eur 100000. during the negotiations, the budget line for the solidarity fund was increased by eur 127 million: a strong signal of help for the affected populations.
in writing. draft amending budget no 7/2014 concerns the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund to the amount of eur 79.726.440 in commitment and payment appropriations in relation to the floods that affected serbia and croatia in may 2014 and bulgaria in june 2014. in order to allow the eusf to provide financial assistance to the countries affected by this natural disaster, i could only vote in favour of this resolution.
in writing. - i voted in favour of draft amending budget no 7, which concerns the activation of the european union solidarity fund for an amount of eur 79 726 942. the commission has also received comments from the united kingdom and the united states on the application of the union state aid rules to the measures in question. in the compromise reached at the trilogue on 8 december, the budget line for the solidarity fund was increased by eur 127 million. this is an important sign of solidarity and help, made possible by the activation of the fund, a key instrument for support in the event of natural disasters.
in writing. - i voted in favour of amending budget no 7 for 2014 on expenditure to mobilise the egf, the eu solidarity fund, to ensure full and timely eu aid to serbia, croatia and bulgaria, which were hit by disastrous floods this year. nearly eur 80 million in total aid has been allocated, with a budgetary adjustment that will be considered outside the 2014 multiannual financial framework ceiling, to ensure timely delivery of funds to the affected areas. we must deal with the times of need linked to natural disasters with the greatest possible flexibility, including from a technical point of view, as is the case with the eu budget.
in writing. draft amending budget no 7 allows for the allocation of a substantial additional amount to the european union solidarity fund. this budgetary adjustment will allow adequate support to serbia, croatia and bulgaria, which were affected by severe natural disasters between may and june 2014. my vote in favour of the document is based on the conviction that the european union must not miss an opportunity to show its closeness and support to all its member states.
in writing. i voted in favour of draft amending budget no 7/2014 for the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund in commitment and payment appropriations relating to the floods that have affected serbia, croatia and bulgaria this year.
in writing. draft amending budget no 7/2014 concerns the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund (eusf) to the amount of eur 79 726 440 in commitment and payment appropriations in relation to the floods that affected serbia and croatia in may 2014 and bulgaria in june 2014. draft amending budget no 7/2014 is intended to formally enter the adjustment in the 2014 budget. for these reasons i would vote in favour.
in writing. i voted in favour of the proposal because it concerns aid for the people of europe affected by particularly serious natural disasters.
in writing. i voted in favour of this measure which takes account of a surplus of eur 1 005 406 925,37 for the financial year 2013 (excluding efta and eea contributions) entered as an entry in the 2014 budget. the accounting of the surplus will result in a corresponding decrease in the overall contribution of the member states to the financing of the eu budget.
in writing. — i voted for this because we need to have concrete help for the zones in the european union which have suffered natural catastrophes.
in writing. i voted in favour of the clearance of the accounts for the financial year 2013. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the amount of the aid to the beneficiaries. the implementation of the 2013 financial year shows a surplus of eur 1 005 406 925,37 (excluding efta and eea contributions), which is therefore entered as revenue in the 2014 budget. the accounting of the surplus will result in a corresponding decrease in the overall contribution of the member states to the financing of the eu budget.
in writing. i voted today in favour of draft amending budget no 8/2014 concerning the surplus resulting from the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013. the commission notes that the financial corrections for the period from 1 january 2013 to 31 december 2013 were mainly due to the increase in the capital of the bank. the commission has therefore decided to make a refund to the member states by offsetting the monthly contributions paid by the member states to the eu. for italy, the amount of the refund will be around eur 110 million.
in writing. the adoption of this draft budget will reduce the share of the member states' contribution to the union budget by around eur 1 billion and will therefore partly offset their contribution to the financing of the other corrective projects.
in writing. this draft amending budget is merely an application of the law and has little political content. it is certainly good to see the eu saving and returning money to its main taxpayers (which are the member states).
in writing. - i voted in favour of amending budget no 8, which concerns the 2013 budget surplus of around eur 1.005 million, due to an increase in revenue of eur 771 million, a reduction in expenditure of eur 276 million and a negative component on exchange rates (eur -46 million). parliament, in the negotiations, supported the formation of a 'package' with the other pbrs, in order to offset the higher revenue due to the 2013 budget surplus with the payment needs contained in the other amending budgets.
in writing. draft amending budget no 8/2014 aims only to budget the surplus resulting from the implementation of the 2013 financial year, amounting to approximately eur 1 billion, mainly from unforeseen revenue from fines and penalties. this is a technical correction and is necessary to replace the previous one. for these reasons, i vote in favour.
in writing. - draft amending budget no 8 concerns the 2013 budget surplus of around eur 1 005 million, due to an increase in revenue of eur 771 million, a reduction in expenditure of eur 276 million and a negative component on exchange rates (eur -46 million). during the negotiations, parliament strategically decided to form a 'package' with the other dbps in order to offset the higher revenue due to the 2013 budget surplus with the payment needs contained in the other amending budgets.
in writing. - the surplus resulting from the implementation of the 2013 budget was calculated in draft amending budget no 8/2014 at around eur 1 billion. the commission has calculated this surplus by taking into account the balance at the end of the 2013 financial year. this amount will be allocated proportionately and according to the member states' competences and will be deducted directly from the contributions of each country to the european union. i voted in favour of the text at the end of the adoption of the 2014 budgetary corrective procedures.
in writing. draft amending budget no 8/2014 aims to enter in the 2014 budget the surplus resulting from the implementation of the 2013 financial year, which amounts to eur 1 005 million. article 18 of the financial regulation provides that the difference between the provisional accounts and the estimates to be entered in the budget of the union is to be the sole item on the amending budget in question. for these reasons i would vote in favour.
in writing. i have chosen to vote in favour because the accounting for the surplus will result in a corresponding decrease in the overall contribution of the member states to the financing of the eu budget.
in writing. i voted against the amendment to the own resources regulation linked to the highly contested recalculations of the contributions from the member states in draft amending budget no 6 of 2014.
in writing. — i supported these amendments because i think that the european parliament must be more involved in the dialogue with the member states concerning their contributions.
in writing. the committee also welcomed the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the regulation to include the areas of the common fisheries policy, the common fisheries policy and the common fisheries policy. i voted against it.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a council regulation amending regulation (ec, euratom) no 1150/2000 implementing decision 2007/436/ec, euratom on the system of the community's own resources. taking into account that, in the light of recent statistical reviews carried out by member states, it was found that some member states paid less than they were due to the union budget, while others would have paid more, i voted in favour of this report which goes in the direction of an adjustment of member states' contributions, recognising that the amounts of the 2014 vat and gni-based own resources corrections are high and may represent a considerable financial burden for some member states.
in writing. this amendment to regulation no 1150/2000 gives the member states the flexibility they need as regards the way in which they have to make available the amounts resulting from the adjustments to their national contributions.
in writing. my vote in favour of this report is almost a foregone conclusion: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament.
in writing. as a result of amending budget no 6/2014, it was possible to modify the system for calculating the compensation of contributions due by member states on the basis of vat and gni resources. with the new allocations, the previous system, in force from 1995 to 2013, would have meant that some countries would have to pay back contributions already paid while others would have to pay others. i am voting in favour of this new system which solves the problem of member states' contributions.
in writing. with today's report, parliament has given its opinion to the council on the calculation of the adjustment of the national contributions of the member states to the budget of the european union. this is an annual calculation, carried out by the commission, which is essentially a technical exercise, based on data supplied by the member states themselves. we have, however, wanted to emphasize, through two amendments, that parliament needs to improve the flow of information on changes in the revenue of the eu budget.
in writing. in the light of recent statistical revisions carried out by the member states, it appears that for several years some member states have paid contributions below their obligations towards the union budget, while others have allegedly paid too high contributions. for the sake of transparency, a report on the calculations and data underlying the adjustments to the vat and gni balances should be submitted annually to parliament in the context of the budgetary procedure, ensuring that there is sufficient time for its examination. the decision of the member states on the dates and amounts of the instalments should be notified to parliament. for these reasons i would vote in favour.
in writing. i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution because the commission's proposal is part of a wider negotiating package, which includes the amending budgets of the last two years, and, following the amendments made to the text of the proposal by parliament, i believe it should be approved.
in writing. i voted in favour of the early mobilisation of eur 50 million from the solidarity fund for the financial year 2015. this appropriation will not prejudice future operations but should instead speed up the implementation of the fund.
in writing. — i voted for this because we need to have concrete help for the zones in the european union which have suffered natural catastrophes.
in writing. i voted in favour. the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020 has set the maximum annual allocation threshold (in 2011 prices) for the eu solidarity fund (which responds to natural disasters) at eur 500 million. the maximum amount of eur 50 million per year that may be allocated for the payment of advances shall be eur 50 million. this vote shall mobilise the solidarity fund for commitment and pre-financing appropriations of eur 50 million for the financial year 2015. this appropriation is clearly without prejudice to further future operations and should, however, make it possible to speed up future operations which will undoubtedly see the use of the fund (since many disasters are affecting italy, france and other member states). in the committee on budgets this measure was passed almost unanimously by 36 votes to 1.
in writing. today i voted in favour of the report on the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund for disaster-stricken regions. the european union solidarity fund was set up to respond to major natural disasters and is one of the most visible and effective examples of solidarity in the eu. the current decision of the european parliament and of the council proposes to enter in the 2015 budget the amount of eur 50 million, which corresponds to advances, which will be used to respond more quickly and effectively should exceptional events occur in the course of the next year. a rapid response to disasters by the european institutions, by anticipating resources, can make a decisive contribution to providing practical assistance to the european citizens affected, which is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. once again, the financial instruments of the institutions are not very flexible and require additions and adjustments every year. these changes necessarily lead to higher expenditure and contribute to an increase in the amount of arrears.
in writing. i voted in favour of this proposal in the hope that the money set aside in this fund will never be used and will be proposed every year as an eu savings. it is a pity that this prospect is unlikely, and welcome the allocation of funds to be used in emergencies.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the amendment to the rules on the european union solidarity fund (eusf). it is important to ensure that member states receive financial support to respond to a natural disaster as quickly as possible. the question of the financing of the special instruments remains open, however, and i hope that a solution can be found as soon as possible.
in writing. the european union solidarity fund was set up to respond to major natural disasters and to express european solidarity with regions of europe affected by disasters. the fund may provide financial support to member states and countries involved in accession negotiations affected by major natural disasters where the total direct damage caused by the disaster exceeds eur 3 billion in 2011 prices or 0,6% of the gross national income of the country concerned, whichever is the lower. it may also be mobilised in the event of a regional disaster. i am voting in favour of this resolution because the eu solidarity fund is not just another form of financial support from the union, but also helps to send a clear political message of solidarity, while providing real assistance to the affected areas. these objectives can be achieved by a timely response, which may also take the form of an advance.
in writing. the european union solidarity fund (eusf) provides financial support to member states and countries involved in accession negotiations affected by major natural disasters, where the total direct damage caused by the disaster exceeds eur 3 billion. it can also be mobilised in the event of a regional disaster. in this vote i supported the decision of the european parliament and the council to enter in the 2015 budget an amount of eur 50 million in commitment and payment appropriations, corresponding to the advances to be paid in the event of a natural disaster next year. this decision is designed to provide financial support to member states to enable them to react to natural disasters as quickly as possible.
in writing. in recent months, an extraordinary wave of bad weather has hit italy, causing heavy damage in many regions. my region, sicily, has been hit by violent tornadoes and windstorms which have caused considerable economic damage and terrorised the population. although of a different nature, many member states have been obliged to apply to the fund. the solidarity fund is not just an economic aid, a financial instrument. it also represents, and above all, a political message: the european union is there. it does not just impose restrictions but offers help and support.
in writing. the report just approved is not linked to a specific case of mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund, but aims to introduce in the 2015 budget an amount of eur 50 million in commitment and payment appropriations, which correspond to an advance that will be needed to ensure efficient responses in the event of natural disasters at the beginning of next year. this is a fundamental instrument for us, which we must improve in order to obtain answers in a more rapid manner than those we have had so far, also in view of its particular solidarity and emergency nature.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund. the report aims to enter in the 2015 budget an amount of eur 50 million in commitment and payment appropriations corresponding to advances to be paid more effectively and in a timely manner in the event of a natural disaster. it is therefore of the utmost importance to express solidarity and support to all citizens of countries affected by disasters.
in writing. the decision to vote in favour of the mureșan report stems from the awareness that the entry of an additional eur 50 million in the 2015 budget to be allocated, in the form of advances, to the european union solidarity fund will allow for a more timely intervention by the european union in the event that a natural disaster occurs within the community's borders next year.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of mr muresan's report on the mobilisation of the solidarity fund so that eur 50 million can be allocated as soon as possible to cover a possible natural disaster next year.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, the european union has set up a european union solidarity fund to show solidarity with the people of regions hit by disasters. council regulation (eu) no 1311/2013 authorises the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund up to a maximum annual amount of eur 500 million and provides for an amount of eur 50 000 000 to be made available for the payment of advances by means of appropriations entered in the general budget of the union. for these reasons i would vote in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of activating the flexibility instrument to supplement the financing provided for in the general budget of the eu for the financial year 2015 for the structural funds programmes for cyprus with an amount of eur 79 785 595, over and above the ceiling, which would benefit, for the year 2015, from an allocation of up to a total amount of eur 100 000 000.
in writing. — i voted for this because we need to have concrete help for the zones in the european union which are less rich.
in writing. i vote in favour. the mff 2014-2020 allows the use of the flexibility instrument to allow the financing of clearly identified expenditure which could not be financed within the available ceilings of one or more headings of the multiannual financial framework. the commission proposes to activate the flexibility instrument to supplement the financing provided in the general budget of the eu for the financial year 2015 for the structural funds programmes for cyprus with an amount of eur 79 785 595 over and above the ceiling, which would benefit for the year 2015 from an allocation of up to a total amount of eur 100 000 000.
in writing. i voted in favour of the proposal to mobilise the financial flexibility instrument in favour of the integration of the funding provided for in the general budget of the eu for the structural funds of cyprus. the commission notes that the bank of cyprus has not provided any information on the amount of the recapitalisation to the bank. the appropriations provided for in the flexibility instrument are intended to support the start of a favourable economic environment for cyprus, which appears essential to ensure stability on the island, also in view of the delicate historical situation at the moment, with the recent resumption of the process of reunification between the turkish cypriot and greek cypriot parts.
in writing. the cypriot economy, although small, is experiencing difficulties. it is our duty, within an economic and monetary union, to support it also financially so that it can once again be a stable and reliable partner on which we can rely both politically and economically. i therefore voted in favour of this proposal.
in writing. - having examined all the possibilities for commitment appropriations under heading 1b, having already activated the flexibility instrument for the financial year 2014 on 20 november 2013 by the european parliament and the council of the eu to finance the structural funds programmes for cyprus with an amount of eur 89 million in commitment appropriations, and finally having learned that the ceilings of subheading 1b do not allow adequate funding of the important and urgent political priorities of the general budget of the eu for the financial year 2015, i have decided to vote in favour of the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument. this will allow us to supplement the financing provided for in the amount of eur 80 million for the structural funds programmes for cyprus under heading 1b.
in writing. in view of the very serious economic and social situation, despite the contained increase in the commitment appropriations of certain budget lines, the ceilings of subheading 1b for the financial year 2015 do not allow for sufficient funding of important and urgent political priorities of the union. i voted in favour of approving the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument and amending the commission proposal to allow the financial coverage of the additional allocation of the structural funds programmes for cyprus under subheading 1b up to an amount of eur 83.26 million.
in writing. the report by mrs eider gardiazabal provides for the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument to the tune of eur 89.28 million in commitments to finance the structural funds programmes of cyprus. this decision takes account of the particular difficult situation in cyprus and i have therefore given my positive opinion.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument on budgetary cooperation and sound financial management. it is necessary to activate the flexibility instrument for commitment appropriations in order to increase the allocation of the structural funds to cyprus.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report signed by mrs gardiazabal rubial, as i agree with the need to increase commitment appropriations for certain budget lines, as the ceilings for subheading 1b for the financial year 2015 do not suffice to finance political commitments which are a priority for the union. i also support the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument to allow the financial coverage of the additional allocation of the structural funds programmes for cyprus under subheading 1b up to an amount of eur 83.26 million.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, article 11 of council regulation (eu) no 1311/2013 establishing a flexibility instrument provides for an annual ceiling of eur 471 million. it is necessary to activate the flexibility instrument to supplement the financing provided for in the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2015 for the structural funds programmes for cyprus. by decision of 20 november 2013, the european parliament and the council have already activated the flexibility instrument for the financial year 2014 to finance structural funds programmes for cyprus. having examined all possibilities for reallocating appropriations, it is necessary to provide additional payment appropriations for the financial years 2014-2015 to cover the additional commitment appropriations for cyprus on the basis of the planned payment profile. for these reasons i would vote in favour.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, despite the approval of this budget, i believe that we can and must do much more. we call on the socialists and democrats to do their utmost, but once again the council has been subject to the power and domination of only a few european countries, such as germany, france and england. we have, however, managed to achieve something in terms of the commitments that keep alive and meaningful programmes such as erasmus and horizon 2020. however, our priority remains our commitment to an intelligent and organic reform of the whole budgetary procedure.
in writing. — i voted against this proposal for amendments because i do not think they are in the interests of the european parliament.
in writing. i vote against, in line with my critical position towards this european union. it's all to be done again!
in writing. every year, the council and parliament meet to decide on the budget, but the latter has nevertheless adopted this year's budget. the forecasts for next year show a deficit of over 4 billion which will add to the many unpaid invoices of the last financial year.
in writing. the draft budget avoids the provisional exercise and above all gives credit and satisfaction to the italian presidency for the difficult balance sought and found. the difficulty of the negotiations, combined with the fact that the situation is particularly critical for some member states, makes the result achieved extraordinary, particularly with regard to those headings of expenditure which have seen substantial increases (i am referring in particular to cosme).
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, although i believe that europe must do more, i voted in favour of the report because the increase in commitments compared with the previous budget certainly makes it possible to allocate more resources. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the whole of the european union, including the european union's external borders. increasing funding for projects such as horizon 2020 and erasmus+, as well as supporting the competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises, means investing in the future of the union and its citizens, in particular by intensifying the fight against unemployment, the rate of which remains very high, as shown above all by the data on youth unemployment, especially in some regions. finally, i also welcome the commitment made by parliament in the 2014 amending budgets to ensure greater continuity in the union's action and to meet extraordinary needs, such as those arising from the floods in sardinia, for which eur 16 million has been allocated.
in writing. in keeping with my critical stance on this european union, my final vote on the measure is clearly against it.
in writing. at its october part-session, parliament set out its priorities on the draft general budget of the eu for 2015. the conciliation with the council in recent months has not been easy, as our colleagues in the committee on budgets have told us. finally, agreement was reached on the 2014 amending budgets and the 2015 budget before the end of the year, so as to avoid a provisional start-up. i am in favour of this and i am pleased that the appropriations for research (horizon 2020), the programmes for the competitiveness of smes (cosme), education (erasmus), cohesion and frontex have been safeguarded and increased. the agreement for 2014 is also welcome, with the proposal to increase appropriations by 3,529 billion and to adopt amending budgets to provide aid to countries affected by major natural disasters. in this chapter i express my appreciation for the 16 million that will be allocated to italy for the flood in sardinia in november 2013. finally, the statement by the three institutions that they are committed to implementing a plan to reduce the level of unpaid invoices is encouraging: a plan to be agreed in good time and in any event before the presentation of the draft budget for 2016.
in writing. — i voted against because i do not think this proposal from the council is in the interest of the union.
in writing. the 2015 budget provides for eur 145,32 billion in commitments and eur 141,21 billion in payments, plus an extra amount of eur 4,25 billion for the balance of unpaid invoices in 2014. the european parliament has chosen seriousness with a 2015 budget that allows the eu to pay all its debts and that respects europe's commitments to growth and jobs policies. the funds that the council cut for research and development programmes, such as horizon 2020, for aid to small and medium-sized enterprises through the cosme programme, for education, including the erasmus+ student mobility programme, and for aid to the most disadvantaged have been reinstated. i regret, however, that once again the council has not been prepared to back up its political statements with sufficient budgetary resources in support of growth and employment. the council seems to have no priorities any more and seems to be only interested in limiting the commitments of the member states as much as possible.
in writing. the eu budget is not managed responsibly: the payment commitments are increasing every year. it should be remembered that the european union already has 20 billion in arrears to be settled. it is no wonder that citizens have little confidence in the european institutions when they are so irresponsibly run.
in writing. this general budget, for which i voted in favour, gives us an important political fact: the role of parliament is crucial to preventing decisions from being guided solely by the interests of the member states. it was this assembly that fulfilled the meritorious task of representing the citizens, demanding that beyond numbers there be services and policies geared to those who, day by day, create the wealth that the european institutions help to redistribute. i congratulate the negotiators, especially those of the european parliament.
in writing. - the agreement reached on the 2015 general budget is certainly positive for having prevented the twelfths regime, which would have led to a scenario that was harmful to say the least. but the great difficulties in achieving this result are once again prompting us to move towards reform of the eu's own resources system. this would ensure the financial autonomy of the union and enable us to make the whole system more efficient and focused on the objectives to be achieved, without affecting national reserves, which are today too dependent on limited public resources. i voted in favour of the budget, also because it safeguarded resources for research (horizon 2020), the programmes for the competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises (cosme), education (erasmus), cohesion and frontex.
in writing. the 'draft package' agreed after difficult negotiations by the representatives of the parliament and the council in the trilogue of 8 december 2014 shows that more attention has been paid to the gap between the resources committed and the resources allocated to payments in the previous years, causing a backlog of payments and a proliferation of unpaid invoices. i voted no because i believe that it is necessary to settle the debts of the past and then seriously plan for the future. i am not in any way opposed to the community budget, but the approach adopted is certainly not sustainable.
in writing. - i would like to thank my colleagues eider gardiazabal rubial and monika hohlmeier for the difficult work they did during 2014 to ensure that europe had an adequate budget. at the end of a long negotiation, which was marked by the failure of the conciliation procedure, an agreement was reached thanks to the sense of responsibility of parliament and the work of the italian presidency. the proposal provides for 145.3 billion in commitment appropriations and 141.2 billion in payment appropriations. the agreement is not what we expected but, given the economic conditions in the member states, it was the best compromise that could be reached. resources for research (horizon 2020), the programmes for the competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises (cosme), education (erasmus), cohesion and frontex have been safeguarded and increased.
in writing. - i welcome the agreement reached between the commission, the council and parliament on the eu budget for 2015. the tough negotiations dragged on until the last minute led to a more than satisfactory conclusion for parliament, which succeeded in passing the payment plan as one of the main lines of the 2015 budget. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the euro as a currency for the exchange of goods and services. the council's proposed cuts, which would have reduced the margins for investment in view of the delicate economic and financial situation, were also halved.
in writing. on 8 december, after difficult negotiations, parliament, the commission and the council finally reached an agreement on the community budget for 2015. the report, signed by colleagues gardiazabal rubial and hohlmeier, clearly sets out the strengths and weaknesses of the new 2015 spending package. i find particularly agreeable the reference to the need to reform the european union's own resources system, with the aim of finally overcoming the current impasse in the budget negotiations, and to the need to reform efforts in the coming years to reduce unpaid invoices to a sustainable level. in view of these considerations, i felt it was my duty to give my consent to the document.
in writing. i am voting in favour of the text of the resolution by mr gardiazabal rubial and mr hohlmeier. an agreement on the eu budget for 2015 was reached after lengthy negotiations, allowing the initially proposed cut of eur 2.1 billion to be halved and the level of payment appropriations to be fixed at eur 141.2 billion, while saving funds for farmers and increasing those for research, small and medium-sized enterprises, youth and immigration.
in writing. whereas the overall level of commitment appropriations in the budget for 2015 is set at eur 145.321,5 million; whereas the overall level of payment appropriations in the budget for 2015 is set at eur 141.214,0 million; that the flexibility instrument for 2015 is mobilised for an amount of eur 83,3 million in commitment appropriations, i would vote in favour.
in writing. - i voted against the new budget of the european union because i strongly believe that the accumulated debts must first be settled and then future trends and investments seriously planned. the agreement reached and the result of the conciliation between parliament and the council must be regarded as a failure, since many of the priorities expressed, such as employment and productive investment, have not been maintained. the council's often intransigent and unrealistic approach has created a vicious circle, which continues to involve severe cuts in the union budget, which then have to be remedied by numerous amending budgets because of the real needs of the member states.
in writing. i voted in favour of this own-initiative report by the committee on transport and tourism of the european parliament, which denounces the inadequacy of the commission's proposal for a regulation on the classification of serious infringements of the union's rules on road transport. there are too many cases of social dumping which our transport companies (both goods and people) suffer from companies formally located in eastern europe but which operate without limits and with few controls even in our country.
in writing. the list proposed by the european commission on the classification for serious infringements of european road transport rules does not adequately take into account infringements related to illegal cabotage and other important aspects of road safety related to compliance with social rules in the road sector, in particular with regard to social dumping. for these reasons i voted in favour of the objection tabled by the committee on transport to the list. i also think it is of the utmost importance that the commission should propose a new list as soon as possible in order to provide a complete list enabling the member states to sanction the same type of infringement in a uniform manner. the commission will have to show that it really wants to build a social europe capable of combating illegal practices which lead to 'unfair' competition between the different member states. greater compliance with all eu road rules will have an immediate impact in reducing the number of fatalities on our roads and ensure fair competition between european logistics companies.
in writing. — i voted against this proposal because it was not ambitious enough.
in writing. i voted in favour of an own-initiative report by the committee on transport and tourism of the european parliament which criticises the inadequacy of the european commission's proposal for a regulation supplementing the rules already in force on the classification of serious infringements of the union rules on road transport. the complaint of the tran committee is well founded. there are too many cases, reported by our workers and employers, of social dumping by our transport companies (both goods and people) from companies formally located in eastern europe but operating without limits and with little control even in our country.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution today, which calls on the commission to withdraw its draft regulation and to present a new list of serious infringements of eu rules which can lead to the loss of the honour of the road haulage operator. the commission's course is dangerous: it has been decided to indicate in the delegated acts the cases in which the carrier loses his good repute and thus the possibility of carrying out his work. if the indication is mandatory, anything not included is allowed, i.e. anything not indicated as serious will not be such as to allow the suspension of the service authorization. the sanctions framework must be common and comprehensive, otherwise there is a risk that individual member states will take individual steps which will end up creating differences in treatment between countries. for example, other rules relating to illegal cabotage, which is a problem in the european union, should also be included in the list as serious infringements. if this is not considered 'serious', it will have social consequences on the business side and for social dumping.
in writing. the list of serious infringements, leading to the loss of the honour of the road haulage operator, contained in the amendment proposed by the commission is not sufficiently exhaustive, therefore the proposal is rejected.
in writing. i voted in favour of this objection. i think that road safety is a subject on which we cannot be too general and that this implementing regulation was indeed not precise. it will be important, in rewriting it, to shift the bar to more practical and concrete measures, so as not to place an undue burden on transport undertakings.
in writing. - i support the motion for a resolution tabled by mr cramer. a road package consisting of three ec regulations (no 1071/2009 no 1072/2009 no 1073/2009) was adopted in october 2009 and provides for new rules, such as simplified and standardised presentation of the community licence or the strengthening of procedures for the exchange of information between member states on infringements committed by carriers. in this last respect, i think it is appropriate for the commission to withdraw the draft regulation in order to supplement article 6 (2) with an exhaustive list of categories, types and levels of seriousness of infringements of union rules which may lead to the loss of the honour of the road haulage operator. i would like to remind you that there are some objectives contained in the 'eu road safety guidelines 2011-2020' which should be achieved as soon as possible and one of these is the reduction of the number of deaths and injuries on european roads.
in writing. i voted in favour of the own-initiative report by the committee on transport and tourism, which criticises the inadequacy of the european commission's proposal for a regulation supplementing the rules already in force on the classification of serious infringements of the union's road transport rules.
in writing. i wish to express my vote against the european commission's proposal on 'serious infringements by road hauliers': the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. what is the key to ensuring a truly effective control system? we are also making a clear commitment to sanction illegal cabotage. this is a practice which is increasingly undermining the rights of workers in the road transport sector, introducing dumping and unfair competition mechanisms which europe cannot afford to tolerate in the pursuit of the development of a balanced and efficient internal market.
in writing. the list of serious road traffic offences presented by the commission appears to be partial and not exhaustive. the exclusion of cabotage and the failure to ensure the application of social legislation are the major weaknesses. the legislation on driving hours is european and the free market and therefore the possibility of cabotage is european. it follows that any solutions must also be addressed at european level. both illegal cabotage and non-compliance with social and labour standards create potential risks to life, as they are closely linked to poor and degraded living and working standards. the adaptation to european regulations, the opening of borders to the often unfair competition of foreign carriers, the rise in operating costs and the unsustainable taxation are just some of the problems affecting the sector. the aim of europe must be to support road transport, to facilitate the activities of companies in the sector and to simplify bureaucratic procedures in a period, the present one, in which the road transport world is experiencing a widespread and deep crisis.
in writing. i support the proposal by mr cramer because the current regulations, in addition to defining road traffic offences, also include comprehensive provisions on the liability of hauliers, drivers and companies operating in the transport of goods. the draft commission regulation is compatible with regulation (ec) no 1071/2009 of the european parliament and of the council laying down common rules concerning the conditions of access to the occupation of road transport operator.
in writing. - regulation (ec) no 1071/2009 aims to achieve an internal market in road transport based on fair conditions of competition. it also recognises the need to apply common rules for the licensing of the occupation of road haulage operator. these regulatory conditions will help to achieve several objectives: the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of road transport services, such as the introduction of a higher level of professional qualifications for road hauliers, the rationalisation of the market, the improvement of transport services and, most importantly, the improvement of road safety conditions. i have given my consent to this document, because i share its meaning and aims.
in writing. i regret the outcome of today's vote on the classification of serious infringements of eu rules which may lead to loss of reputation of the road haulage operator reputation which is a necessary requirement for the carrier to meet the requirements for a licence. i believe that, while supporting the commission's efforts to introduce a list establishing a common list of serious infringements, the commission has avoided tackling the major problem of the deterioration of social rights, also known as social dumping and, as a consequence, of the so-called illegal cabotage. these are issues of fundamental importance to my group, which the commission, despite the limits of its mandate - since it has only been able to list offences which result in death or serious injury to persons - cannot afford not to address. that said, i am convinced that a list, albeit with a limited scope, would have been a good starting point for my country.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, the objective of regulation (ec) no 1071/2009 is to achieve an internal road transport market characterised by fair conditions of competition, for which the uniform application of common rules is necessary to allow access to the occupation of road haulage operator. those common rules will contribute to achieving a higher level of professional qualification for road hauliers, to rationalising the market, to improving the quality of service, in the interest of road hauliers, their customers and the economy in general, and to improving road safety. for these reasons i would vote in favour.
in writing. as a member of the committee on transport and tourism, i am in favour of adopting the draft commission regulation because there is an unsatisfactory level of assessment of the burden of road cabotage offences and violations, which lead to operating in conditions of serious safety risk. i agree with the content of the motion and i hope that a new, more comprehensive assessment of road cabotage infringements will be made, with the term 'most serious infringements' (msi) rather than 'very serious infringements' (vsi).
in writing. i voted against this resolution which would impose on each fuel supplier the burden of individually calculating the ghg intensity of its products depending on the original raw material used to produce them. this is with the stated purpose of discouraging the use of canadian tar sands. therefore, each fuel supplier (whether an sme, a service station owner, a supermarket or an oil company) should have a reporting system that associates each volume of petrol and diesel sold with the original raw material. this is unrealistic and would result in a huge administrative burden for both fuel suppliers and the member states, which are required to monitor. moreover, the most 'underdog' operators could benefit from the practical impossibility of verifying the data declared, to the detriment of the more rigorous operators. finally, eu refineries would see the cost of raw materials increase compared to their competitors in third countries, with a further loss of competitiveness and the consequent possible closure.
in writing. — i voted in favour of this proposal for a directive because i think it goes in the right direction in order to protect our environment.
in writing. i vote against. negative provision for the italian economy. among other things, eu refineries would see the cost of raw materials increase compared to their competitors in third countries, with a further loss of competitiveness and the consequent possible closure.
in writing. today i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the draft council directive laying down the methods of calculation and reporting requirements for the quality of petrol and diesel fuels and amending council regulation (ec) no 55/2008. i share the position expressed in the resolution, which opposes the adoption of the draft directive, considering that the draft is not compatible with the purpose of directive 98/70/ec, and i call on the commission to withdraw the draft and to submit a new one. in particular, i believe that there is a need for further revision of the method used to calculate the levels of greenhouse gas emissions from fuels and other non-biological energy sources. this is to take account of the expected increase in the use of fuels with high greenhouse gas intensity levels and fuels derived from other emerging raw materials.
in writing. i voted against this objection. i think that the colleagues who have raised this issue have made some very good arguments for the simple purpose of opposing a sector which, at the moment, produces energy for our daily needs and in particular for a large part of our travel. the objector's demands are, in my view, excessive and disproportionate to the benefits they might bring. if we want a more environmentally sustainable economy, the conversation needs to be much broader.
in writing. - i support what my colleague mr la via said in the resolution, namely that the commission should withdraw the draft council directive because it is not compatible with the aims and content of directive 98/70/ec. the european union has climate and energy targets to be met by 2050, including decarbonisation, which means reducing greenhouse gas emissions. to tackle the problem of pollution, it would be necessary not only to improve the quality of fuels but also to develop a european strategy to encourage the use of new, sustainable, competitive and safe energy technologies.
in writing. i do not agree with the proposal because there would be too much burden on individual distributors in europe and our refineries would see the cost of raw materials increase compared to competitors in third countries, with a further loss of competitiveness and the consequent possible closure.
in writing. i voted against the objection raised by some colleagues to the proposal for a council directive laying down the methods of calculation and reporting requirements for the quality of petrol and diesel fuel, because i believe that the methods used by the commission are appropriate and in line with the objectives of directive 98/70/ec of the european parliament and of the council, which regulates these aspects.
in writing. - the commission directive on calculation methods and reporting requirements for the quality of petrol and diesel fuel has the ultimate objective of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 6% by 2020. it also lays down the methodology for calculating emissions, the exchange of information and the administrative burden for member states and fuel suppliers. i therefore find the commission's proposal satisfactory, which is why i voted against the motion for a resolution which seeks to withdraw the directive.
in writing. i regret the outcome of today's vote which led to the rejection of the objection to the proposal from the european commission on the implementation of the fuel quality directive. the commission proposal does not allow for the differentiation between the intensity of greenhouse gases and different raw materials and, consequently, neither the reporting of the actual emissions of individual fuels, with an average value that is 40% lower than that of the 2011 proposal for a directive, which was never adopted due to the opposition of the council. in particular, my group believes that the proposed implementation is detrimental to the overall objective of the directive, which is to reduce co2 emissions and move towards a carbon-free energy supply in europe. i hope at least that the proposal, as adopted, will enable and facilitate the achievement of the 6% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions from fuels by 2020.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, the revised directive 98/70/ec on the quality of petrol and diesel fuel requires suppliers to report annually on life cycle greenhouse gas emissions per unit of energy from fuels and energy supplied in each member state and to reduce by at least 6% by 31 december 2020 the life cycle greenhouse gas intensity of fuels supplied compared to the community average of emissions per unit of energy produced during the life cycle of fossil fuels in 2010. the methodology used to calculate greenhouse gas emission levels from fuels and other non-biological energy sources should be further revised to take into account the expected increase in the use of fuels with high greenhouse gas intensity levels and fuels derived from other emerging raw materials. for these reasons i would vote against.
in writing. - i have decided to vote against this because i believe that this measure is causing more damage to the european petrochemical industry than the environmental benefits it seeks to achieve. in addition, eu refineries would see the cost of raw materials increase compared to their competitors in third countries, with a further loss of competitiveness and the consequent possible closure.
in writing. — i voted against this proposal for a regulation proposal because i think it is absolutely not ambitious enough with regard to the big challenges the baltic zone is facing.
in writing. abstention from voting. a thorough technical assessment of the biological cycle of baltic cod would be needed. in general, a reduction in size (in this case the proposal is to go from 38 to 35 cm) may 'confuse' that market with that of the novelty product, but a technical assessment of merit is lacking.
in writing. the conservative group, which tabled this resolution to oppose a commission act, had good intentions, which however clash with practice: the proposed reduction is not expected to have the environmental impact that the conservative colleagues fear, according to the studies, and it is therefore not worth changing this rule which, on the contrary, allows businesses and consumers a secure food supply.
in writing. - i disagree with the text of the resolution on the commission's delegated regulation establishing a discard plan for the baltic sea, as i believe that such a slight reduction in terms of three centimetres of the minimum reference size for cod fishing cannot in any way endanger the new catch, which is rightly protected, nor can it have a negative impact on european markets and consumption. in particular, the scientific, technical and economic committee for fisheries (stecf), consulted by the commission on the matter, concluded that 'in order to reduce current discard levels, there may be biologically valid reasons to reduce the current minimum size of 38 cm'.
in writing. i do not agree with mr marek jozef grobarczyk's proposal to abolish the delegated act for the reduction of the minimum size for the protection of cod in the baltic sea, for a number of reasons which i would like to list here. firstly, i believe that the minimal reduction in the proposed size would not affect the production capacity of the stock, nor would it be able to help create a market for the new product. finally, i do not think it would be an obstacle to the implementation of the improvements made in the use of reference equipment.
in writing. in disagreement with the dele­gated act for the reduction of the minimum conservation reference size for cod in the baltic sea, i have decided to vote against this resolution. this minimum reduction does not, in my view, affect the production capacity of the stock or help to create a market for the new product.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, the reduction of the minimum conservation reference size for cod in the baltic sea, as proposed by the commission, could potentially compromise the reproductive capacity of the stock. the council decision on the total allowable catch (tac) for cod stocks in 2015 provides for quota reductions of 7% in the western baltic and 22% in the eastern baltic in order to protect the species. the reduction of the minimum reference size for the conservation of cod in the baltic sea removes an important incentive to make improvements in the use of more selective gear. for these reasons i would vote against.
in writing. i abstained because there is no accurate technical assessment of the biological cycle of baltic cod, which would be indispensable for a decision on the matter.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution which takes up eiopa's comments and calls on the commission to comply with its recommendations. on 10 october, the eu executive adopted a delegated regulation on a number of powers conferred by directive 2009/138/ec which, in several important cases, significantly diverges from the technical opinions submitted by eiopa, with a calibration of the risk factors used in the standard formula for the calculation of the solvency capital requirement (scr) much lower than that recommended by eiopa.
in writing. — i voted against because this proposal was not protective enough for private persons.
in writing. i voted in favour. article 101 of directive 2009/138/ec provides that 'all quantifiable risks to which an insurance or reinsurance undertaking is exposed shall be taken into account' and that the solvency capital requirement shall be 'the value at risk of the basic own funds of the insurance or reinsurance undertaking subject to a 99,5% confidence level over a one-year period'. the directive empowers the commission to adopt delegated acts in a number of specific areas and the commission has duly requested eiopa (the european insurance and occupational pensions authority) to provide technical advice in relation to those areas. eiopa has submitted to the commission final opinions on the calibration of solvency ii (ceiops-sec-40-10), the classification and eligibility of own funds (cp46), the calculation and calibration of the equity risk sub-module (cp69), the treatment of future premiums (cp30) and the calculation of the risk margin (cp42).
in writing. this resolution, which is highly technical in content, bases its objection to the commission's act on the assumption that the opinion of an advisory body was not followed. for the umpteenth time, we are therefore faced with a pretexted attempt to dismiss the european commission in its role as the executive body of the eu. that is why i voted against the resolution.
in writing. - based on the above mentioned in article 101 of directive 2009/138/ec and the work done by the commission in drafting the delegated regulation, i consider it justified to partially adopt the solutions expressed by the ceiops/eiopa technicians regarding the quantification of the risks to which insurance and reinsurance undertakings are exposed and the criteria for assessing solvency in relation to the value at risk of own funds. in my view, the commission has rightly assessed the technical opinion of ceiops/eiopa critically, in keeping with the spirit of the abovementioned european parliament directive.
in writing. whereas article 290 tfeu states that the purpose of delegated acts is to supplement or amend certain non-essential elements of a legislative act or to lay down uniform conditions for the implementation of provisions defined in legislative acts, and whereas article 101 of directive 2009/138/ec provides that 'all quantifiable risks to which an insurance or reinsurance undertaking is exposed shall be taken into account' and that the solvency capital requirement is 'the value at risk of the basic own funds of the insurance or reinsurance undertaking subject to a 99,5% confidence level over a period of one year', i voted in favour of the motion by the greens calling for objections to commission delegated acts to regulate this specific matter.
in writing. i vote in favour of the measure as the annex is linked to article 101 of directive 2009/138/ec which requires that 'all quantifiable risks to which an insurance or reinsurance undertaking is exposed are taken into account' and that the solvency capital requirement corresponds to 'the value at risk of the basic own funds of the insurance or reinsurance undertaking subject to a 99,5% confidence level over a one-year period'.
in writing. i support the rapporteur's proposal because i believe that the european commission has correctly assessed the technical advice provided by ceiops/eiopa on the quantification of the risks to which insurance and reinsurance undertakings are exposed and the criteria for assessing solvency in relation to the value at risk of own funds.
in writing. i do not entirely agree with the requests contained in the green motion for a resolution, which essentially requires that all quantifiable risks to which an insurance or reinsurance undertaking is exposed be considered. that is why i have decided to vote against the text.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, article 101 of directive 2009/138/ec provides that 'all quantifiable risks to which an insurance or reinsurance undertaking is exposed shall be taken into account' and that the solvency capital requirement shall be 'the value at risk of the basic own funds of the insurance or reinsurance undertaking subject to a confidence level of 99,5% over a period of one year'. the directive empowers the commission to adopt delegated acts in a number of specific areas and the commission has duly requested ceiops/eiopa to provide technical opinions in relation to those areas. on 10 october 2014, the commission adopted a delegated regulation concerning a number of powers conferred by the directive which, in several important cases, significantly diverge from the technical opinions submitted. for these reasons i would vote against.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, europe has a duty to make every effort to ensure the greatest possible security for its citizens. this guarantee inevitably involves addressing the security challenges that our society faces on a daily basis. while we appreciate the european union's commitment to tackling these challenges, we cannot help but denounce the timid attention paid to a phenomenon which, sometimes subtly, sometimes overtly, is rapidly spreading across the continent. i am referring to the spread of corruption, the activities of criminal organizations, whose first outlet in countries which think they are immune to it is money laundering. i believe that not enough has been done in the fight against the mafia and that we need a collective awareness, which will lead us to take a holistic approach to these issues. the commission's reports, which are very good, must be followed by the facts. and so we are starting to adopt all possible legislative initiatives, from the preventive confiscation of the illicit proceeds of criminal organizations and the discipline of the crime of association with mafia-type criminals to the protection of whistleblowers to combat corruption.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the resolution reiterates that freedom, security and justice are objectives to be pursued in parallel. the new strategy will have to ensure full respect for fundamental rights and principles, which has not always been the case in the past, but it will also have to be an effective strategy and of course subject to exhaustive judicial safeguards. but above all it must be an effective strategy. the resolution also calls for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu is able to meet its commitments to the united nations. the fight against trafficking in human beings, organised crime, money laundering and corruption should be tackled, including through closer cooperation in criminal matters between states and between eu agencies, greater use of instruments such as joint investigation teams and improved circulation of relevant information, in compliance with the safeguards that will soon be enshrined in the data protection directive. that is why i supported the resolution.
in writing. i am voting in favour of renewing the internal security strategy. the actions cover organised crime, terrorism, cybercrime, border security and disasters.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution today because i welcome the preparation of a new internal security strategy (iss) which must adapt to the new security threats that have emerged in recent years, applying an integrated approach to priority areas such as cyber security, trafficking in human beings, the fight against terrorism and organised crime, money laundering and corruption. it is essential that there is a thorough analysis of new and emerging security threats, which should be carried out by europol in close cooperation with the other relevant union bodies and member states. i would ask the commission to assess the current instruments in the field of internal security and to analyse the gaps in them. as regards the worrying increase in eu citizens travelling to conflict areas to join terrorist organisations and subsequently returning to the eu, i am convinced that this phenomenon creates new types of risks to the internal security of the union, which must be tackled with determination through a multidimensional approach.
in writing. the challenges we face in this era also see the eu as a model for something that is seen as evil in other parts of the world. the efforts of individual member states to ensure their internal security must therefore be coordinated and perhaps made synergistic by the common objective of preserving the safety of european citizens. i voted in favour of this resolution because it has been able to argue this simple principle.
in writing. - the current geopolitical situation is of particular concern because of various conflicts and upheavals involving many countries in the eu's neighbourhood. in addition, many of today's security challenges have become cross-border and cross-sectoral, beyond the immediate and effective response capabilities of individual member states: a common european approach is therefore needed. i hope that the new internal security strategy (iss) for 2015-2019 will be forward-looking and strategic, easily adaptable to changing situations, but above all capable of responding effectively to the many emerging threats, such as the fight against terrorism, trafficking in human beings, organised crime, money laundering and corruption. i also hope that judicial cooperation in criminal matters will be developed, as will mutual trust between member states. it should not be forgotten that the european parliament, as a full actor in the field of security policy and in accordance with the provisions of the treaty of lisbon, will have the full right to express its position on priorities and actions in the field.
in writing. the news is telling us what urgent issues need to be prioritised in the new internal security strategy. i voted in favour of this resolution because, firstly, we must improve our capacity to analyse natural hazards. the union should work on a credible early warning mechanism. the commission will also be making a special effort to combat violence against women and children: there are still too many cases of violence. it is also clear that the threats are now global and do not concern individual regions or even member states. europe is the victim of external threats and at the same time we are witnessing more and more cases of european citizens embracing the causes of wars across borders. without forgetting that our citizens who are engaged in voluntary or humanitarian work abroad are the first victims of terrible violence. a truly effective action plan is therefore needed, which takes account of the internal and external dimensions of security. we must join forces: the european parliament has already made a number of proposals to the council and the commission. our citizens have a right to feel safe. it is the perception of security that our citizens have that we have to deal with. this is where mistrust or faith in europe comes from.
in writing. the lisbon treaty gives our institution the role of a full actor in the field of security policy, as well as the power to participate actively in the definition of priorities in order to achieve a comprehensive, targeted and effective eu security policy. in this resolution, parliament takes note of the fact that the security situation in europe has changed radically in recent years and that threats are more diverse than in the past. in the light of these considerations, we urged the commission to ensure that the new internal security strategy for 2015-2019 is forward-looking and strategic and easily adaptable to changing situations. therefore, it focuses not only on existing security threats but also on emerging ones such as cybersecurity, human trafficking and the fight against terrorism and interlinked problems such as organised crime, money laundering and corruption. the respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms is a fundamental point for us: all preventive policies and repressive measures must strike the right balance in order to preserve freedom, security and justice.
in writing. i am voting in favour of the report by mr claude moraes because the motion for a resolution which has been tabled emphasises the need to carry out a detailed analysis of the current threats to european security in order to provide adequate protection for all community citizens. the commission is also proposing that the new internal security strategy (iss) should focus on external threats as well as those emerging within the community's borders. i also agree with the reference to the need to strike a fair balance between preventive and repressive policies in order to guarantee freedom, justice and security.
in writing. - the european union needs a dynamic and effective security system that can adapt rapidly to international changes. the threats to the security of our countries come mainly from outside. the fight against terrorism and the continuing threat of attacks unfortunately brings to the agenda of this house a subject which must make us reflect on possible solutions in a particular international context in which the eu certainly remains the safest place in the world as a whole. the security threats must therefore be addressed with a strong common strategy, which is why i support the renewal of the eu's internal security strategy.
in writing. the internal security strategy (iss) for the period 2010-14 is coming to an end. the new ssi, valid for the period 2015-2019, is being prepared. the motion for a resolution tabled by the libe committee, of which i am a member, stresses the need for a thorough analysis of the current threats to european security in order to offer all community citizens adequate protection. the document calls for the new ssi to focus not only on potential external threats but also on those emerging within the community's borders. the reference to the need to strike the right balance between preventive policies and repressive measures, so that freedom, security and justice are adequately preserved, is particularly welcome. my vote in favour of the resolution is based on a full sharing of its contents.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on the renewal of the eu's internal security strategy because i believe it is a good opportunity to reiterate our priorities. i would like to stress the fight against human trafficking and the fight against terrorism.
in writing. the lisbon treaty laid the foundations for the development of an eu security policy closely shared by the eu and its member states, and therefore the eu and the member states have a shared responsibility to ensure the security and freedom of european citizens. the security situation in europe has changed dramatically in recent years as a result of new conflicts and upheavals in the eu's immediate neighbourhood. the internal security strategy (iss) for the period 2010-2014 is coming to an end and a new iss for the period 2015-2019 is being prepared. for these reasons i would vote in favour.
in writing. as the current internal security strategy (iss/2010-2014) comes to an end and as we have been facing a more complex security situation in europe in recent years, mainly due to new conflicts and upheavals in the eu's neighbourhood and increasing radicalisation leading to violence and terrorism, it is important and i fully support the resolution that the current iss be assessed, updated and renewed to respond to new security threats. at the same time, full protection of the fundamental rights of the citizens of the european union is a priority. i also hope that the new ssi will ensure adequate financial resources for the proper implementation of the necessary measures, in particular for the smooth functioning of eu agencies such as europol and eurojust.
in writing. - the homeland security strategy and the proposed resolution seem to me to be a program that mimics american counterterrorism in too many ways. it is self-celebration and is run by closed agencies (essentially europol), without consulting the bodies that should be entrusted with the definition of threats to the union: the council, national parliaments and the european parliament. the resolution also deals almost exclusively with repressive measures. there's almost nothing about prevention. the word 'fundamental rights' barely appears in the 'declarative' paragraphs of the resolution and without citing specific articles of the charter. in the meantime, member states remain free to do what they want, with initiatives on a purely voluntary basis or seemingly common actions such as 'mos maiorum', for which the states are answerable to no one. for these reasons i voted against this resolution.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think this is a very important day for this parliament and we hope that it will also be a moment of radical change for the resistance and the palestinian people, for the recognition of the state of palestine, for the peace process, for security and for justice for both peoples. 135 countries have already recognized the state of palestine. i would ask all my colleagues to go to those areas, where they can see for themselves the destruction caused by the war that the state of israel has been waging for the last few months. the palestinians have always called for a mediating role for the european union, a role different from that of the united states. i hope that this resolution is a step in that direction. i really hope that this is an important moment for this parliament and for the european union as a whole to really work for peace and security for both peoples.
i will answer you, mr president, as regards the matters within my jurisdiction. i have read the text of the resolution. it was very clear why there was no actual recognition, because it was a support for recognition. so a political document with no legislative effect. it was a political statement.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, after 67 years of pain, death and suffering, one of the longest and bloodiest conflicts in history is still a stabbing wound in the heart of the middle east. as the five star movement we are aware that this resolution is far from being the crowning achievement of the peace process we all want. but it's still an important step towards justice. i am pleased with the large majority expressed by this parliament. we have finally clarified the distinction between recognition, which is the responsibility of the member states, but which must be a harmonious recognition, not a cacophony of voices, but a chorus by our states, and this will be the work of high representative mogherini, and between the peace process, which is the responsibility of israel and palestine, where we are the mediators. but without a genuine commitment by the eu to building a palestinian state that can guarantee security in the region for both states, administer according to the rule of law and reconcile the different factions and achieve social justice, such recognition will be just a fig leaf to wash our conscience and our blindness in the last decades. money is not enough. we must therefore do everything in our power to prevent the opposite extremes in israel and palestine from prevailing. we have a lot of work ahead of us in the next few years. let's not forget that.
in writing. the european parliament has adopted a resolution, which can be described as historic, on the recognition of the palestinian state, which comes on the heels of the court of justice's decision to annul the council's decision to blacklist hamas as a terrorist organisation. the european parliament adopted a resolution on the situation in the occupied palestinian territories and the situation in the occupied palestinian territories. this is a historic position which could represent a first step towards a lasting solution to the thorny and unresolved palestinian question. for these reasons i voted in favour of the resolution. the ball now goes to the individual member states, who must make an effort to implement this act. we have done our job as members of the european parliament: it is now up to the government of our country to act in accordance with what has been agreed by the members here in strasbourg.
in writing. — i voted for this resolution because i think the time has come to send a strong message for peace and reconciliation in the middle east.
in writing. i abstained. it's the most balanced position among positions that are too far apart. the european union is working to ensure the security of israel and the region.
in writing. today i voted in favour of the resolution on the recognition of the palestinian state. i believe that the realisation of the principle of 'two states for two peoples' and the mutual recognition of palestine and israel are two absolutely fundamental conditions for the palestinian and israeli peoples to finally achieve peaceful coexistence and security for the peoples and states in the vicinity of the crisis area. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that the recognition of the palestinian state by the european parliament is a very important signal which, following the recognition already achieved by some member states (sweden, spain, the united kingdom and ireland), can have a significant impact on the middle east peace process. the vote today gives a clear mandate to high representative mogherini to put all possible diplomatic initiatives in place so that the recognition of the state of palestine can be added to in a 'very short time'.
in writing. i voted in favour of the joint resolution, of which i am one of the co-signatories from the epp group, because i am firmly convinced that this act can give a greater impetus to the resumption of direct peace talks between israel and the plo, which have been stalled for too long. but my vote is not unconditional: the plo committed itself in 1993 to recognise the state of israel and it is necessary that all the various palestinian factions, including hamas, accept the plo commitments and put an end to their internal divisions. the two states can only coexist in peace and security, on the basis of the right to self-determination and in full respect of international law. that is why peace negotiations must resume and palestine must end its acts of violence against israel. only in this way will the european parliament support, in principle, the two-state solution with jerusalem as the capital of both states, bearing in mind that the recognition of the state of palestine is a matter for the states, while the european union must be a facilitator of the peace process.
in writing. the title of this resolution deserves rivers and rivers of ink. i have decided to abstain because the way this title has been declined seems inappropriate to me: the conditions set out in the text are absolutely unattainable in the present state of affairs and, although this text has no legislative ambitions, they make no sense even in a mere political document. moreover, as a colleague from another political group rightly pointed out before the vote, the eu does not have the power to recognise states.
in writing. i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution supporting the recognition in principle of a palestinian state based on the 1967 borders and with jerusalem as its capital. i hope that israel and palestine will live side by side in peace and security, based on the right to self-determination and full respect for international law.
in writing. today's vote is a very important step towards the resolution of the israeli-palestinian conflict and i personally welcome the expression of this parliament's support for the recognition of the palestinian state and the two-state solution, a recognition which calls for all the necessary efforts to be made to develop the peace talks and to promote the only possible direction for peaceful and non-violent coexistence of peoples. i also share the commitment to launch an initiative entitled 'parliamentarians for peace', which aims to bring together european, israeli and palestinian parliamentarians from various parties to help advance a peace agenda and complement the european union's diplomatic efforts.
in writing. - i voted against the resolution on the recognition of the state of palestine, which i consider to be a serious political mistake for two reasons. firstly, because we insist on putting a democracy such as the state of israel on the same level as clearly undemocratic realities, which still display, at best, equivocal, ambiguous and unclear behaviour with regard to the recognition of israel's right to exist and to live in the security of its citizens. secondly, i consider it hypocritical and now frankly unacceptable to use language such as 'all acts of terrorism and violence', 'both sides', etc. he pretends not to see that there is a sharp distinction, which does not allow for opaque equations: on the one hand, there are acts of terrorism, and on the other, the exercise of the right of self-defence by a democratic country, the only one in the area to freely choose its government and parliament. it would be the duty of all democrats in the west to defend israel without hypocrisy and subterfuge. the hope of affirming the human rights of palestinian women and men also depends on this defence, and therefore on the protection of the values of freedom and democracy.
in writing. the european parliament adopted by a large majority a resolution signed by several groups which supports, in principle, the recognition of the state of palestine on the basis of the 1967 borders, supports the two-state solution with jerusalem and calls for the resumption of peace talks. while acknowledging the work done by the epp to mitigate the positions of the european left, the forza italia delegation still finds ambiguities and too many traces of the original version of the resolution, starting with the title. for this reason, and precisely to mark our political dissent, we have chosen not to vote.
in writing. today is a historic day that will be remembered in the long journey of the long-suffering middle east peace process. at the strong urging of the european parliament, we have today spoken in favour of the recognition of the palestinian state and the two-state solution, in the hope of giving impetus to a new world order based on peace. with this resolution we have not proclaimed victory for one side, but responsibility. it is the victory of hope that peace will soon be a reality. with this vote we believe that europe, on this basis, is now playing all its cards and all its influence in opening negotiations free of the extremist and fundamentalist mortgages which have made it impossible for decades to make progress in the peace process between israel and palestine. we want the dream to be a reality, the dream so described in this resolution which we have adopted: two states, jerusalem as the capital of both states, with a secure state of israel and an independent, democratic, contiguous and self-sustaining state of palestine, living side by side in peace and security, on the basis of the right to self-determination and full respect for international law.
in writing. we welcome the proposal to recognise the palestinian state. this decision by the european parliament, although not legally binding, has a strong political significance, as it underlines the european union's willingness to play a leading role in the middle east peace process. at such a delicate time as this, the eu is in a position to make a key contribution to advancing the peace process by pursuing the two-state solution on the basis of the 1967 borders and ensuring both security in the state of israel and the existence of an independent and democratic palestinian state.
in writing. i abstained on the vote on the resolution on the recognition of palestine, as i believe that there may be a possibility that this initiative could interfere with the course of the peace negotiations. but at the same time i reiterate my firm support for the two-state solution, living side by side in peace and security, putting an end once and for all to the acts of violence and terrorism which have affected, and still affect, both peoples.
in writing. - i agree with those who believe that recognition of the state of palestine is crucial to the start of a balanced peace process and to prevent any further developments in the conflict in the area from giving rise to arbitrary management not regulated by international law. the unresolved palestinian question, with its decades-long stagnation and the particular odiousness of the conflicts which have resulted from it, is clearly a weak point for the credibility of the effectiveness of the instruments of international legal theory and for the prestige of the action of politicians and diplomats who, above all through the opinion of public opinion, receive the energy necessary to transform their virtuous intuitions into concrete and operative actions. i therefore voted in favour of the resolution on the recognition of the state of palestine, as i believe that the solution of two independent and neighbouring states with jerusalem as their common capital is the only way to achieve and consolidate peaceful coexistence in the area. i therefore wholeheartedly support the european parliament's resolution, in the hope that it will send a signal which can be taken up by all its member states.
in writing. given the sensitivity of the matter and the importance of the issue, i would prefer not to express a position, although i am sure that negotiations will soon begin to resolve the problem once and for all.
in writing. - for too long the israeli-palestinian conflict has bled the middle east and caused a painful wound throughout the world. the european union has repeatedly stated its support for a two-state solution, which guarantees security and stability for israel and independence and democracy for the palestinian people. to achieve this, it is necessary to create the conditions for the resumption of direct peace talks between the two sides, renouncing the use of any violent means. for these reasons i voted in favour of this resolution, which expresses firm condemnation of the acts of war and terrorism perpetrated by both sides and warns against turning a political conflict into a religious conflict, with the result that it is extended to other subjects. coexistence based on mutual recognition is the only solution that can guarantee peace and stability in the region, and the basis for calming the climate of tension that is building up throughout the region. i particularly welcome the invitation to the high representative to commit to a common position: it is time for the eu to speak with one voice, showing that it really intends to engage, rather than leaving room for the quirks of national diplomacy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, the steel question is a matter of great concern to us, also because of the current situation in the italian steel industry: i am thinking of the factories in terni, taranto and piombino. we have contributed to the debate in this parliament on the steel plan, including by submitting an oral question on the terni incident and by speaking to the workers' delegations who have come to brussels and then to strasbourg. we also worked on improving the text of a joint resolution which we did not end up sharing because we felt that it placed the steel issue in the context of juncker's investment package and in an ideology and a representation of competitiveness, inside and outside europe, which did not convince us. we believe that steel must be preserved as a strategic element of production for europe. we believe, however, that social and environmental dumping must be combated and counteracted and that serious ecological conversions must be carried out for those plants, such as taranto, which continue to sow death and cancer.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the steel sector in europe plays a fundamental role and is of vital importance to many member states. it is therefore right that it should be a priority for industrial policy. and it is precisely its size and employment scope that make it central to social policy as well. the steel industry accounts for 350 000 direct jobs. so we must talk about markets, competition, demand, competitiveness, imports and exports. but it is even more important, and perhaps a priority, to talk about protection and social responsibility. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. restructuring, technological development and relocation must not be a burden on workers. our task, mr president, is to ensure that the commission, when it comes to industry, never forgets the social dialogue.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the steel sector has always been one of the most important strategic economic sectors in europe and there is no doubt about the central role that this sector has played in the past and still plays today in the development and growth and economic recovery of europe. however, the sector is facing serious difficulties in almost all countries of the european union. the resolution just voted calls on the european commission to develop measures and adjust policies to revive the sector, making it competitive, so that the effects of the prolonged crisis do not lead to the relocation of firms operating in this sector. we therefore call for a specific plan for steel, which pays the utmost attention to worker safety and environmental protection, and for a package of financial instruments which will enable the steel industry to regain its leading role and to be competitive on the international scene. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. the steel industry not only played a central role in the process of european unification but still today occupies an important position in the fabric of production on our continent with over 350,000 direct jobs and several million jobs in the industry. it is a sector that has been hit hard by the crisis, with falling demand, job losses and declining competitiveness. the commission and parliament have been discussing the need for a recovery in manufacturing, with the aim of bringing industry's share of gdp to 20% by 2020. i support and am among the signatories of this resolution which calls for the eu to act on the steel industry to start to give substance to the commitments announced on the industrial front, including actions in areas such as competitiveness, economic and social costs of restructuring and mergers, management of the weight taken by the sector to achieve the eu's climate and environmental objectives. i think it is important, as the resolution points out, that the commission should pay particular attention to investments in the steel sector, to future trade agreements in terms of market access opportunities and to the risks of distortion which exist today in the internal market, for example caused by asymmetries in the compensation provided by the different member states.
in writing. — i voted in favour of the first, fifth and sixth amendments because i think there must be more protection for the workers inside the eu.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on the european steel industry today. i believe that the eu must do more to help the steel industry to recover from the crisis. the closure of the plants has resulted in the loss of 60,000 jobs in the european steel industry since 2007 and a fall in production of one fifth. the commission therefore needs to provide accurate information on the balance between steel demand and supply at european and global level and to identify the major social, economic and environmental challenges in order to develop medium and long-term initiatives to support the steel industry in europe. i am convinced that trade agreements must improve the conditions for steel exports. future agreements must therefore include provisions to significantly improve export opportunities and market access for european steel and steel products. finally, control of eu competition rules and state aid is needed to avoid inequalities between european countries. the commission must verify whether the application of competition and state aid rules has led to unfair solutions in the european steel market and, if so, corrective measures will be needed as soon as possible.
in writing. the resolution i voted for is not the liberal group's but the one put forward jointly by the people's party, the socialists and the greens. the difference, i believe, lies in the ability to combine the efficiency that the budgets certify with the positive numbers on the one hand, and the human aspects of the work on the other. the eu was created to share steel (along with the then-mainstream energy source) and what it means: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i hope that the council will take them up. we need to be more concerned with social numbers than with business numbers.
in writing. - the eu is currently the world's second largest steel producer, producing over 177 million tonnes per year, equivalent to 11% of world production. the steel industry is also a sector with a cross-border dimension, with 500 production plants in 23 member states and close links with many industrial sectors such as construction, electronics, automotive, mechanical and electromechanical engineering. due to the economic crisis, this sector is experiencing a slowdown in production: many plants have ceased operations and jobs have been lost. high energy prices, the effects of low demand and overcapacity in a globalised steel market also contributed to the hindrance of competitiveness. i hope that the commission will be able to monitor the situation of many plants, including those in italy at piombino and taranto, and that it will take account of the technological know-how of these high-tech industries which should be protected, especially against attempts at relocation. finally, i hope that the european competition rules will be revised, which unfortunately in many cases prove to be outdated and incapable of reflecting the evolution of the global context.
in writing. a motion on the steel industry cannot ignore the protection of health, the environment and local economies. on the one hand, we encourage training and social protection, research and innovation, the use of scrap metal and electric furnaces, the production of steam and gas for energy, and on the other hand, we do not want to support environmental taxation, the participation of ngos and environmental associations in decision-making processes, and we do not commit ourselves to combating social and environmental dumping by adequately protecting our standards. there is no mention of the importance of complying with european environmental directives and in particular the polluter pays principle, or of the need to abandon obsolete plants or parts of them which pose a serious danger to the health of workers, the local population and the environment. finally, the possibility of a genuine industrial and economic conversion that would give greater value to local economies is not contemplated. for these reasons i have decided not to support the joint motion for a resolution and to abstain.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on the eu steel industry: the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a resolution on the situation in the community. the european steel industry, which has lost 60 000 jobs and suffered a significant drop in production in recent years alone, must remain the backbone of the eu's industrial recovery, which must now be translated into action and not just a mere title of some european commission's letter of intent. the priority is to make the european steel industry strategic again, preserving its know-how and skills and boosting its sustainability and innovation. the resolution also stresses the importance of protecting the european steel industry from unfair trading practices, which can only be ensured by a modern and effective system of trade defence and by ad hoc provisions in international agreements. this text therefore has the merit of putting an important industrial sector back at the centre of the european political agenda, which will have to be revived to ensure that european specialised companies can remain competitive on international markets, thus avoiding the creation of the premises for new painful cases such as that of the "ast" steelworks in terni.
in writing. - i would like to stress one aspect which is only marginally touched upon in the resolution voted today, which concerns the reform of the ets system. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'combined product' to cover all products, including those which are not covered by the directive, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'combined product' to cover all products. the steel industry must therefore innovate to ensure that environmental, health and safety standards are met, which are the foundation for a new era of sustainable reindustrialisation in europe.
in writing. - the european parliament's resolution on the steel sector represents the real challenge facing europe in order to give impetus to the industrial policies of the european union and the steel industry in particular. the steel industry can, as in the past, once again play an important role in the industrial revival of europe. the challenge facing the steel industry is very ambitious, since it must combine the protection of workers from the risks of pollution on the one hand and european firms from competition which is putting them behind in the world market and the general fall in demand for steel due to the general reduction in investment on the other. europe must therefore set out a roadmap to put the steel industry back at the centre of industrial policy and transform it into a sustainable and profitable sector. therefore, it is necessary for the commission to use part of its investment package to develop and disseminate the best available technologies in order to implement large-scale industrial projects, including energy efficiency and low carbon projects. the efficiency of steel production combined with the implementation of large investments could give a significant boost to the demand for steel in the european union.
in writing. following the discussion last november on the crisis in the european steel industry, we voted today on an important and politically significant text which reaffirms the priority the steel industry gives to the european real economy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the community. we hope that the agreement will be an opportunity for europe to put into practice the steel plan which the european commission presented with great emphasis a year ago. a coherent and organic approach is needed to revive production and encourage the sector, starting with new regulatory instruments that modernise competition rules, speed up social support and restructuring measures and safeguard european competitiveness despite the necessary and due commitments to reduce co2 emissions.
in writing. this vote shows that this house recognises the importance of the manufacturing sector, which in europe is still considered strategic for the future of our economy, both in terms of employment and in terms of defining the level of the union's industrial competitiveness on world markets. the process of deindustrialization and the expansion of the service sector brought about by the phenomenon of globalization require us to rethink the entire manufacturing sector. the european steel industry in particular is facing an unprecedented crisis. however, steel will play a key role in relation to new sustainable industrial solutions, especially in the process of urbanisation. the steel industry in europe has areas of technological know-how which must be protected, experiences which must be encouraged through new investment without competing by wage dumping. that is why we strongly support the need to overcome the rivalries between member states, which have manifested themselves in continuous processes of relocation. investment is needed in quality jobs and innovative products. we have therefore stressed the need to invest in research and innovation, as essential elements for the revival and renewal of the european economy and in particular of the steel industry.
in writing. - i signed and voted in favour of the resolution on the steel sector in the european union to protect an entire industrial chain which is being hit hard by the economic crisis. steel is of fundamental importance to the whole manufacturing industry and involves a huge number of workers throughout europe. the protection of the steel industry requires improving competitiveness in favour of investment, safeguarding european companies at the expense of those from third countries, protecting workers, as in the specific case of the special steels of terni, and urging the commission to review european competition policies.
in writing. the european steel industry plays a vital role in the european economy. however, it is currently suffering from a fall in demand, with many jobs being lost as a result. my support for this resolution is based on the conviction that the european union should adopt a policy to develop industrial production in all the member states. i particularly shared the reference in the text to the need to speed up the preparation of the roadmap for industrial policy for the first part of 2015, so that european industry can be relaunched on the world market, on the basis of a rational plan.
in writing. with the resolution on the steel sector in the european union: the european parliament has a clear message to the commission: europe can only emerge from the crisis if it reinvests in the real economy. the recovery also depends on the revival of its strong manufacturing industry, in which the competitive and sustainable steel industry plays a crucial role. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation of the unemployed. it is precisely because we have been witnessing a crisis in the sector for years that it is essential to intervene. the european high-tech steel industries are a model of know-how which must be protected and their presence must not be relocated outside the union. we call on the commission to accelerate the preparation of the industrial policy roadmap for the first part of 2015, to launch the ambitious approach to european reindustrialisation, as part of the mid-term review of the europe 2020 strategy, and to ensure that future trade agreements improve export opportunities and market access for european steel and steel products. these are essential conditions for the global competitiveness of european industrial policy, while respecting the high social and environmental standards to which the union has committed itself.
in writing. we welcome the motion for a resolution calling for a greater effort by the european union to help the steel industry emerge from the crisis. in particular, we ask the commission to pay attention in trade agreements to improving the conditions for steel exports and to control eu competition rules and state aid to avoid inequalities between european countries. we also call on the commission to produce accurate information on the balance between steel demand and supply at european and world level and to identify the major social, economic and environmental challenges in order to develop medium and long-term initiatives to support the steel industry in europe.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, it is in the interest of the whole european union to maintain a sustainable, resource-efficient and competitive steel sector, as it is the backbone of many important forms of industrial production. the european steel industry is currently facing, in many member states, a substantial decline in overall demand and in some cases challenges to competitiveness as well as rising costs. the eu steel industry is a major source of employment and the creation of a stable environment for private capital investment is of crucial importance, together with an efficient use of eu resources. for these reasons i would vote in favour.
in writing. the european union was born as the european coal and steel community. the steel industry is of historic importance in the process of european integration and is the basis of the industrial added value of the old continent. the steel industry, however, is suffering both from a substantial fall in demand and from very high energy costs: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem. to meet this challenge, an action plan for a competitive and sustainable european steel industry is needed. this resolution, for which i voted in favour and which i supported, lays the foundations for a european industrial policy which safeguards the value of our know-how, avoids the relocation of our companies, and invests in high technology to produce high quality, safe and sustainable products. the main actors in this strategy must not only be the institutions of the member states and the management of companies, but also and above all the workers themselves and the social partners. it will also have to create external conditions favourable to the development of the sector, such as lower energy costs. the european steel industry is an example of excellence, and we cannot afford to be overtaken by countries which do not respect social and environmental standards and which apply unfair competition.
in writing. there have been many amendments to improve the original plant such as: replacing ore with scrap iron; increasing the use of electric furnaces; replacing coal with gas; social protection of workers laid off without just cause; border adjustment, i.e. payment of co2 emission allowances for steel from non-eu countries (as opposed to relocation of emissions); investment in low carbon economy from the proceeds of the sale of free carbon allowances; no further investment in css; use of technologies that recycle waste energy for steam and electricity production. however, the resolution does not present tipping points for environmental and health criticality, does not support economic activities other than steel mills that coexist with them territorially, does not take into account the changed globalized landscape and overcapacity, and protects unsustainable and non-convertible plants. in particular: no amendments were passed to protect health, the environment, the participation of ngos in decision-making processes, surrounding local economies other than steel production, the 'polluter pays' principle; ilva di taranto is one of the steelworks to be preserved whose production capacity must be guaranteed; the commission has not considered the infringement of eu competition rules (ast terni case). therefore, i abstained.
in writing. mr president, i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the eu steel sector because i regard it as a first step towards encouraging the eu to support the steel industry, seeking to remove obstacles and threats to its competitiveness and ensuring that it is able to adapt to the changing situation on european and non-european markets. i am therefore particularly pleased that the commission is being asked to examine the feasibility of a carbon adjustment at the border, through the payment of ets allowances for steel from third countries, in order to create a level playing field in terms of co2 emissions and to limit the phenomenon of carbon leakage.
in writing. - i abstained on the final vote because, although i was aware of the importance of safeguarding jobs, our amendments were not taken into account, which were aimed not so much at restoring heavy industry as at ensuring that european support was directed towards the conversion of these plants, so as not to favour employment at the expense of serious health and environmental consequences.
in writing. the figures from the international organisation for migration for 2014 are clear. during the year, at least 3,072 deaths in the mediterranean are estimated. this figure, together with the more than 150 000 rescues carried out by operation mare nostrum, is dramatic. europe and the member states must conduct their fight against the smuggling of migrants and human trafficking in accordance with their international obligations in the field of rescue at sea. in recent months, operation triton has been seen as the beginning of a long-awaited european response, although the future commitments of individual member states are still unclear. saving lives in danger is not an option. for us europeans this is a sure thing. i support this resolution which calls for a united and coordinated approach by the european union to immigration and border management. i particularly find the passage which reiterates that the fair sharing of responsibility and solidarity with the member states which receive the largest number of refugees and asylum seekers must be strengthened, important. finally, it is good that parliament, aware of the recent tragedies in the mediterranean and the cost of rescue and search operations, is urging that appropriate funds be allocated for this purpose.
in writing. — as an italian mep, directly concerned by these issues, i voted for this resolution, which goes in the right direction for having a common immigration policy.
in writing. i voted in favour. the resolution is not controversial and calls for greater cooperation by member states in tackling the problems of immigration in the mediterranean. it is also in the direction i would like to see a global approach to the question of immigration, not just an italian one.
in writing. today i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the situation in the mediterranean and the need for a comprehensive eu approach to migration, in the light of the urgency of implementing the comprehensive strategy for cooperation with third countries. in 2014, more than 3,000 people died in the mediterranean in a desperate attempt to cross it for a better life. as if that were not enough, these flows have become a breeding ground for crime, which has given rise to a veritable human trafficking aimed at exploiting irregular migration. the european union must make every effort to save the lives of these people and to ensure that all member states comply with international agreements on rescue at sea, by showing humanitarian solidarity and a real commitment by financing and contributing to the operations of the new joint programme 'triton' coordinated by frontex.
in writing. this text is very important for italy and i voted in favour of it because it once again enshrines the principle of solidarity between states in the reception of migrants. italy, as a country situated on the main migration routes, has no human choice but to accept. however, in a system of shared borders, it is right that everyone does his part not only in terms of providing resources but also in terms of absorbing labour from other countries. this is a subject which must be closely monitored so that subsequent legislative resolutions take due account of our position.
in writing. - how much longer is this gonna go on? how long will we see hundreds of men, women and children arriving on our shores or dying at sea? italy has been crying out for years for help. the reception centres are collapsing and the landings are only increasing. on the other side of the italian coast there are only countries in the grip of serious political instability. this requires concrete action, in particular strong criminal sanctions against human trafficking and the smuggling of migrants, both into and within the eu, and the launching of resettlement programmes that can benefit from european funding. but it's not enough. we need a fair distribution of responsibility, we need solidarity between member states and we do not want to leave the countries affected by landings, such as italy, to shoulder all the responsibility. i can only vote in favour of the motion for a resolution because it sets out a series of actions to be taken. but we know that the problem to be solved is upstream: the european union must strengthen its partnerships with transit countries such as libya, but above all it must help restore stability and democracy in those countries still affected by serious conflicts.
in writing. according to the international organization for migration, at least 3,072 people died in the mediterranean in 2014. every effort should be made to save the lives of persons in danger and to ensure that member states comply with their international obligations in the field of rescue at sea, in order to develop a comprehensive strategy for cooperation with third countries, in particular those in sub-saharan africa, north africa and the middle east, with regard to humanitarian, financial and political assistance, including in the field of law enforcement, and to seek clarification on the role of regional protection, resettlement and return policies, including migration management agreements between countries of origin and transit. in order to deal with the root causes of migration, i could only vote in favour of this resolution. i am voting in favour because third countries must respect international law on the rescue of lives at sea and must ensure the protection of refugees and respect for fundamental rights.
in writing. at least 3,419 migrants have lost their lives in the mediterranean sea since january. with conflicts in libya, syria and iraq, europe has become the main destination for migrants by sea, and the mediterranean has become the "world's deadliest route". i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because i believe that the european union must show more solidarity with the member states which are hosting the largest number of refugees and asylum seekers, while at the same time taking its fair share of responsibility in relation to immigration to prevent further loss of life at sea.
in writing. the resolution is not controversial and is in fact in the direction we want of a global approach, not just italian, to the issue of immigration. i shall vote in favour, although it will most likely be completely useless, since it will be yet another appeal without a real response from the member states.
in writing. the broad support of this house for the resolution is a confirmation of the need to develop a comprehensive approach to migration. it is our responsibility to ensure safe and legal access to the asylum system in our territories, while also seeking to find new channels of legal migration. we have seen an exponential increase in the number of deaths in the mediterranean in recent years and have therefore called loudly for every effort to be made to avoid further tragedies at sea. operation mare nostrum has been commendable and recognised by all member states; the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. we have also made it necessary that the search and rescue obligations be effectively respected and that appropriate funding be allocated to this end in the medium and long term. in the light of the recent scandals concerning the use of funds, including european funds, intended for emergency management, in particular for actions concerning migration and asylum, we have called for a careful analysis of how these funds are spent, also in order to avoid the repetition in the future of scandalous and criminal forms of appropriation to the detriment of the most vulnerable categories.
in writing. i am voting in favour of the report by mr claude moraes because it fully reflects the idea that the european union should implement a series of measures aimed at defining a holistic approach to the problem of illegal migration. today's vote makes it clear that the position we have taken over the last few months is broadly shared by our colleagues in the european parliament. the management of this policy must be shared by all the eu states and the results achieved during the italian presidency are proof of this. we cannot allow organized crime to kill more human beings on the crossings of hope.
in writing. the tragedy of lampedusa still weighs like a stone on the conscience of public opinion and the political class. although more than a year has passed since that terrible event, the european union is still struggling to provide a plausible answer to the problem of immigration to the community's shores. my support for this resolution is a true act of conscience. it fully reflects the idea that speculation and exploitation linked to the phenomenon of migration must be definitively prevented by implementing a shared and responsible strategy involving all the member states of this union. the resolution accurately reflects the need to act, in a coordinated and responsible manner, in the name of the will to put an end to a slaughter that civil society can no longer afford to be complicit in. i particularly appreciated the reference in the document to the need to support member states which are receiving a greater number of refugees and asylum seekers.
in writing. we welcome the motion for a resolution calling for a unified european approach to migration and for greater efforts to prevent further loss of life at sea. it is now imperative that all the member states assume collective responsibility for a phenomenon of such immense proportions, which costs thousands of lives every year and which has hitherto been the priority of the only european border states, such as italy. in addition to a new shared approach to migration, we stress the need to examine the overall strategy for cooperation with third countries and the obligation for these countries to respect fundamental rights and to ensure the protection of refugees.
in writing. i vote in favour of the resolution on the situation in the mediterranean and the need for a holistic approach by the european union to the migration problem. there is a need for a fair sharing of responsibility towards the member states which receive the highest number of refugees and asylum seekers and there is also a need to combat human trafficking and to establish a system of sanctions against trafficking and smuggling by member states.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the situation in the mediterranean and the need for a comprehensive eu approach to migration, as i believe that migration promotes contact between different ethnic groups, religions and cultures. in the past, the cultural differences between the two shores of the mediterranean were perceived as a source of mutual contamination. today, however, the mediterranean is seen as a mere frontier to be patrolled to prevent the risks of irregular and disorderly immigration. migration should instead be seen as an opportunity, because the european countries are facing a demographic decline and the high birth rate of the populations of the southern shore of the mediterranean is a wealth for europe because it would make it possible to fill the imbalance in our demographic pyramid. europe needs immigrant labour because of its ageing demographic structure. concerted action is needed to make the most of the migration opportunity. the burden should not be borne exclusively by the member states bordering on europe: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states.
in writing. reiterating the importance of these policies in the mediterranean and the need for a final solution, i will only express my favourable opinion on the text if the amendments proposed by my group are accepted.
in writing. i welcome the resolution on the situation in the mediterranean and the need for a holistic eu approach to the migration problem. this is a balanced text which we have agreed in the libe committee following a constructive debate to which i have contributed. the approach is humanitarian and pragmatic: the principle of solidarity and fair sharing of responsibility is invoked towards the member states receiving the highest number of refugees and asylum seekers in absolute or relative terms. the joint undertaking will also be responsible for the implementation of the eu-us joint undertaking for the protection of the marine environment, which is a joint undertaking of the european union and the member states. the need to combat human trafficking and to establish a system of sanctions by the member states against trafficking and smuggling, and the need to establish cooperation with third countries affected by the migratory phenomenon, in order to try to identify together the right strategies on return and asylum, is emphasized. finally, it is important to underline that there is a proposal to find concrete solutions on resettlement, including flows management agreements.
in writing. - the resolution is being drafted in a very difficult political and institutional context: the post-stockholm council programme and the initiatives proposed by the commission focus on the fight against irregular immigration. in view of the recent adoption of the asylum package (2013), there are no tools or initiatives to review its shortcomings. it is at this point that several political groups (gue/ngl, alde, s&d, green and the 5 stars in the efdd) conceived the idea of a resolution on the mediterranean which would allow for a thorough reflection on immigration and asylum issues, without simply waiting for the (very weak or absent) reforms proposed by the commission. the idea is to give the european parliament a real 'proactive' power in this field, by giving the libe commission a leading role and the financial resources to be able to do so. that is why paragraph 12 of the motion is so important: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i therefore abstained, because the necessary saving of the paragraph has nevertheless involved some heavy compromises with the ppe and the ecr.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because it is important to develop a comprehensive approach to migration, strengthening the fair sharing of responsibility and solidarity with the member states which receive the largest number of refugees and asylum seekers. the eu and its member states must make every effort to prevent further tragedies at sea and it is necessary to provide appropriate funding for search and rescue activities. it is essential to examine a possible overall strategy of cooperation with third countries, in particular those in sub-saharan africa, north africa and the middle east, as regards humanitarian assistance, and an analysis of how funds allocated to actions concerning migration and asylum, border control, the fight against the smuggling of migrants and trafficking in human beings are spent is essential in order to target union resources effectively. strong sanctions must be established against trafficking in human beings and migrants, both to and within the european union, and against persons or groups exploiting vulnerable migrants, by finding new channels of legal migration. for the reasons i have outlined, i therefore supported the report.
in writing. with this resolution, the european union seems to finally acknowledge the tragic situation regarding migration flows in the mediterranean sea, which in the first nine months of 2014 alone has claimed at least three thousand lives as a result of desperate attempts to cross. europe has shown no solidarity in dealing with this problem, leaving italy to deal with this humanitarian, social and criminal emergency on its own. immigration has also become a very lucrative business, based on the utter desperation of people willing to leave everything (or little) they had to seek a better future elsewhere. hopes are often dashed, and sometimes they are cut off along with the very existence of these individuals who remain victims of injustice, cruelty and human greed. the solution is not easy, but the approach must certainly be changed at the outset, since the path chosen so far has proved unsuccessful. europe must be the protagonist in all this and cannot continue to pretend that these are national issues linked to a single country: i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this.
in writing. - immigration, particularly irregular immigration, should be a growing concern for the european union. not only because of the difficulties member states have in receiving migrants, but because of the migrants themselves, who often end up as victims of unscrupulous traffickers. i support the strong call for a comprehensive approach to the problem: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the situation in the baltic sea is not worsened. the numbers of the disappointing "mare nostrum" operation, launched by italy, bear witness to this: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i hope that the council will take them up. i also agree with the request for an analysis to be carried out to see how the funds allocated to internal affairs have been spent on measures relating to migration and asylum, border control, the fight against trafficking in human beings and human trafficking and return. i hope that the competent national authorities will respond to the call to 'show solidarity' by contributing to prevention and support operations, in full awareness that we are talking about a 'european' problem.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there are two aspects of the report by the us senate on the use of torture by the cia which i think we need to consider. the first, which is certainly commendable, is the capacity for self-criticism and for accurate and rigorous judgment on the part of the us democratic institutions, even on sensitive issues which could easily be dismissed as national security issues. this virtue, which is typical of the us system and the spirit of its institutions and its citizens, cannot, however, allow us to ignore and consequently prevent us from denouncing and condemning any form of violation of human rights. they are therefore unqualified and unacceptable - and this is the second aspect of my reflection - the words of those who have tried to justify torture of suspected terrorists as a useful tool to gather information for national security. there is nothing, in peace or in war, that can justify torture, which, as is well known, not only violates the inalienable right to the integrity of the human being but which, moreover, cannot in any way be considered as a tool for the search for truth. the us senate report in particular highlights a series of abuses, lies and misdirections by the cia. there is a certain ambiguity on the part of the american authorities in this matter, because in the report, which describes in detail the serious facts, there are no initiatives or recommendations for the prosecution of those responsible, whose names are made public. it is time for the european union to shed full light on the cooperation of the member states in the activities of the cia on european territory and on any secret prisons or places in europe used by the american intelligence agency. each member state should conduct transparent investigations and inquiries in this regard, leaving no room for impunity. european community ... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i, unlike all my colleagues, say that the cia did the right thing in what it did, because we must remember 11 september 2001. there's too much hypocrisy here. if islamic terrorism does what it did in 2001, killing thousands of people in new york, as it did with the beheading just recently, as it did in pakistan the other day, as it did in australia: but where do we live? torture must be used to ensure that europe too can have peace of mind. because if those are terrorists, those are beasts. anyone who commits such serious crimes is a beast, a terrorist to be fought, and guantanamo must remain open, because it must be fought. if the people who beheaded people beheaded some of your children, some of your relatives, would you still talk like this? in islamic law, there is still the law of the cut. jesus changed it 2,000 years ago! in islamic law, "an eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth" remains. can you believe that? islamic politics is a terrorist policy. the religion of islam is violent. netanyahu called us hypocrites today. europe is hypocritical on certain issues, such as the vote on palestine: six million dead in europe and we're talking about palestine! (the president agreed to reply to a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
it's a blue-card question. i'm not sure what it is. mr president, i ask my colleague if he is aware that in his words he has implicitly attacked a number of articles of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union and has said things which are not acceptable in this house, because in this parliament, the parliament of european democracies, we are against torture and even a murderer is not called a beast. i ask you, colleague, do you realize what you've said?
answer to a blue-card question. mr president, i am pleased to hear the hypocritical applause from those who are sitting in the hot seat in this chamber and are not going to fight for democracy where it is needed. i'm just saying that a man who's committed such serious crimes can't expect to be treated to caviar and champagne. obviously, to combat certain phenomena, you must be willing to do certain things. otherwise, terrorism will never be fought. there was terrorism in italy too: the red brigades. how did he fight? with the incarceration, of course, but also with the penitents, with those who were trying to say things. he's sure to do something. of course, on even more serious matters it is clear, i repeat, that the americans have done nothing but good and if others do these things, i say to fight islamic terrorism, everything is fine, as long as it is defeated.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the recent report by the us senate on the use of torture by the cia raises a number of questions about human rights violations and its dramatic nature is not diminished by the fact that it deals with a programme that was closed down by president obama. you learn about water boarding, defined techniques of total control over the prisoner. these events deserve no comment but only pity for the prisoner, whoever he is. it is believed that the delays in the delivery of information may be a cure for rudeness. he said, "these are events that are dated, events that are past". but it's not. if we want to be an example of civilization, we must have the courage to condemn such acts without reservation, which in the mortification of another human being challenge the principles of european democracy and transcendence, the inspiration of our actions to something higher than man himself. the european union must condemn all forms of torture and ill-treatment of prisoners in all circumstances, including in the fight against terrorism. human life cannot be considered collateral damage, a dusty dot on a map, an existential statistic.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on 11 january 2002 the first us military aircraft landed in guantanamo bay with a cargo of over 200 suspected terrorists. suspected terrorists were faced with 18 months of solitary confinement, less than an hour a day outside their cell, interrogation methods worthy of the most inhuman middle ages. for 13 years, thousands of complaints were filed by journalists, ngos, people who worked in the various secret u.s. prisons around the world. the european parliament has also discussed the subject on several occasions and expressed its concerns in resolutions. but many member states, at the same time, cooperated with the cia and its brutal methods, and interfered with human rights. obama, in his campaign, had openly opposed certain practices of the cia and the guantanamo facility but he probably suffers from short memory too. the european states should condemn and never condone or support the horrible torture practiced by the american government.
in writing. once again, we suddenly discover the obvious evidence: american intelligence tortures prisoners, and not just in their homes, but in our homes. it's not the first time this has happened, it seems more like a cyclical path, a déjà vu: you know, you bring up shady operations, you identify a scapegoat, the cia sprinkles ash on your head, and then after a while, you start all over again. the european union has always been a party to the peace process, and it has always been a party to the peace process. a sterile and hypocritical whore. we condemn the use of such techniques, which are unworthy of a democracy. europe must remind its historic friend and ally that no form of torture can be tolerated: it is unacceptable that such brutality has been used, and all the more so on the territory of the union. longtime friends must have the frankness to scold each other when they make mistakes, or they are no longer friends. they're complicit.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is incredible that for 15 years now we have been insisting on trying to bring turkey into europe. a state which has been occupying a part of cyprus, which is a member state of the european union, for 40 years, has destroyed churches and painted them in all colours. a reality that does not recognize the armenian genocide: a million dead. i recommend to friends of turkey the reading of "the larch farm", to be given as a gift, for this christmas. and we, despite this, are now amazed because they have arrested about 20 journalists. but are we really kidding? turkey is not europe: it is not a question of the european parliament being involved in the negotiations. we could reason with it, have trade relations, economic relations, strategic relations. we keep paying them! that's what i don't understand. a state which has been militarily occupying another eu member state for 40 years, which does not recognise that it has massacred a million people and next april will mark the centenary of the armenian genocide; i would like to see if this building will commemorate the centenary of the armenian genocide and yet we continue to give it its 600 million euros a year. italy and europe are giving turkey a cash-for-loss gift of 600 million this year: 600 million next year, 600 million two years from now, 600 million three years from now, and they in turn use that money to arrest journalists and compete with our companies. let us say once and for all that turkey will never be europe and we will all be more serious. (the president agreed to reply to a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
it's a blue-card question. i'm not sure what it is. i wanted to know from mr salvini if he considers the same things he said about turkey also in relation to putin's russia. he spoke of occupying territory: i am thinking of the illegal annexation of crimea, the fighting in the east of the country in ukraine; he spoke of violation of rights: i wonder what he thinks about russia in this regard.
answer to a blue-card question. i guess it's a joke, i guess it's a joke, since in crimea they voted in a referendum where 95% of the citizens, with international observers, decided that it was crimea. i therefore take the honourable member's speech as a pleasant pre-christmas provocation, recalling that we give turkey 600 million euros a year. we are giving russia economic sanctions that are bringing a country to its knees against our own interests. so i take it as a joke and avoid answering.
mr president, i think that this debate shows that in the face of the authoritarian drift of the erdogan government, we must put aside certain hypocrisy and many doubts. we are facing a country that has the highest number of journalists in prison in the world, a country that is ranked 154 out of 180 in the reporters without borders rankings and is working to climb even the last places to the bottom. journalists accused of being close to imam gülen have been arrested; before journalists of all political, religious, right, left, liberal, nationalist, pro-kurdish tendencies were accused, because now in turkey we have to take note even a simple journalistic report (a job i have been doing for 35 years) on corruption is considered by the government and the police authorities as an act of terrorism. the kind of arrogant reaction by president erdogan to the criticisms made by our commissioners mogherini and hahn also shows that the policy which the union has adopted in these years towards turkey is clearly the wrong policy. we have helped them to be more democratic with this system of bribes, of aid, of negotiations: i'm not going! we must find a resolve towards turkey that has never been found before and act in such a way as to help our colleagues in prison as much as possible.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in a blitz worthy of typical authoritarian states, the turkish police arrested 24 journalists last sunday for writing for newspapers that were not pleasing to the erdogan government and that denounced innumerable cases of corruption in turkey. it is a real trap in line with the decisions that have marked the actions of the former prime minister, current president of the republic, who since 2002 has started a fight against internal dissent. in the 12 years that he has been in charge of the government, erdogan has led a series of expropriations of many tv, radio and newspaper channels that have been in financial trouble and that to be saved passed from the hands of family members of government members to characters very close to the president himself, who over the years has carried out a real clean-up between the top of the police forces and the judiciary, replacing those who were considered close to his biggest opponent, gülen. not to mention more recent measures that temporarily banned some social networks, such as twitter or youtube, as they were considered as a means of spreading dissent during the gezi park and taksim square protests. the european union, which is also financing turkey, has been making statements to which erdogan has arrogantly replied that the european union should be minding its own business. this attitude is clearly against european values and standards to which turkey itself aspires as a candidate country. i agree with what the cypriot colleague who spoke at the beginning and then left said: the only way to put an end to this anti-democratic attitude is through economic sanctions.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the blitz that has led to the arrest of two police chiefs and at least 24 journalists, including the editor of the zaman newspaper and the editor of a major turkish broadcaster, cannot go unnoticed and as the european parliament we must forcefully and urgently call on the turkish authorities to ensure that their actions do not violate turkey's core values and democratic foundations. freedom of the media, due process and the independence of the judiciary are key elements in any healthy democracy and are provided for in the turkish constitution and these arrests, as mogherini and pittella have stated, are incompatible with the freedom of the press, which is the foundation of democracy, and are also contrary to the values and standards of europe, to which turkey aspires to belong. it is therefore unacceptable for a democratic and modern country which is seeking to join the european family to carry out these mass arrests.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, once again i find myself speaking painfully about turkey. this time 27 people were arrested in 13 cities, as part of an operation targeting media hostile to erdogan. the target, the country's most widely read newspaper zaman, and a number of other outlets and figures in the samanyolu media empire, is close to fethullah gülen, the preacher who went into self-imposed exile in the united states in 1999 and, after being an ally of erdogan, launched a campaign against him. more and more voices other than the government are being silenced in turkey; more and more freedom of expression and opinion in this country, once a beacon of the islamic world, is disappearing. i am afraid that the turkish government has made a choice, and it is not a choice towards the rule of law, let alone towards the european union. how long will it take, ladies and gentlemen, before we draw the necessary conclusions and give the necessary answers?
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, with the latest wave of arrests of journalists, i believe that the government in ankara has made a mistake, the only result of which will be to strengthen its opponents. these arrests are incompatible with the freedom of the press, which is a fundamental principle of democracy. these arrests are contrary to european values, the standards to which turkey must adhere if it is to be a member of the european union. it is unacceptable that a democratic and modern country which wants to be part of the european family should be able to carry out mass arrests of journalists and media workers. currently, there are more than 70 journalists in turkish prisons, including many kurdish journalists imprisoned for terrorism. i hope that the principles of the presumption of innocence will prevail and that the inalienable right to a fair and independent investigation, with full respect for the rights of the defence, will be respected. it is sad to say, but i think what has happened is taking turkey in the wrong direction, away from europe. this situation could have negative consequences for turkey in terms of political and economic cooperation with the european union. europe must respond with firmness and determination.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, a good metaphor for international politics is 'a glass over a table crowded with many people'. each person's choice represents a sip of water poured or withdrawn into the glass. theoretically, the winner is the one who can fill it with the last sip without dropping a single drop of water. if anyone makes a bold move, the glass overflows and the table is flooded, but not with water, with blood. what is europe doing today around this table? i fear he is pouring water in abundance, with a carelessness and a superficiality that gives me the creeps. i wish to clear the field of any misunderstanding: we in the five star movement are in favour of a european perspective for every country which respects the copenhagen criteria, provided that this is also the unequivocal will of their peoples and ours. and that of course also applies to moldova, ukraine and the friends of georgia. we do not ask if but how and when: we have enormous doubts about that and therefore we will not vote in favour but abstain. both the union and russia are moving closer and closer to the red line. nato is showing its muscle in the baltic in poland with nine intervention forces and the russians, who obviously have very heavy responsibilities, are responding with blow after blow, boosting. the abyss is closing in, seemingly for no reason. are we sure about this? in a statement on 14 november 2013, victoria nuland, deputy under-secretary of state of the united states, openly mentions a link between the eastern partnership and ttip, a treaty that has enormous risks and dubious benefits for us. a treaty that is more about excluding the outsiders than including the insiders. and it is no accident that ttip has been called the "birthplace of the economy": the continuation or rather the anticipation of a hypothetical conflict by other means, to paraphrase von clausewitz. so what are we voting on today? do we vote for our own security and well-being in georgia, or will many of us on the other side of the atlantic be thinking exclusively of millions of new consumers for our markets, no matter what the cost? to accept a terrible risk to the lives of millions of people, in order to increase the turnover of the big defense corporations? the enemy's rhetoric may be convenient at times, but we are not putin's russia supporters at all, we are. but we are also realistic and resent it when principles are only recalled when it is convenient for us. the sanctions imposed so far are hurting all parties involved but strangely little the united states. we must not follow the line of president obama who calls for further reinforcement. twenty-five years ago, the berlin wall fell, and the original premises of nato were gone. now the european union and the united states are building another one in the east. i do not know who will win what kissinger rightly called a 'fatal mistake', but i am painfully convinced that in any case we as europeans will lose. maybe there's still time to change our minds, change our minds and avoid it.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have the impression from the discussion that some people think that we are making agreements almost to the detriment of russia: we're going to make agreements with ukraine, with georgia. it's not like that. the european union is made up of 28 countries, but it is not a union of 28 countries only. it is a territory where free trade takes place and a territory which must be expanded and developed, and that is why the european union is today opening up its capacity for agreement to a country which is by its nature western and which has intelligently embarked on the road to democracy. suffice it to recall the elections that took place in this country in 2012 and 2013, regular and "western" elections, which helped make the country reliable and able to keep the agreements that it will sign. it is clear that georgia has a long way to go before it can be trusted by the european union. but, i would say we've opened up a great credit to this country. we did it because we believe in the possibility of expanding the market and we believe in the validity of the agreements we are going to conclude with this country. i repeat: we don't do it at all because we mean to act out of spite, as someone has imagined might happen. let us therefore continue along this path, let us go ahead with the enlargement of the european union, let us involve all the countries to the east, to enlarge the union further and to make this union even more a union of peoples.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, after listening to the whole debate, i would like to make a few comments on this free trade and association agreement with georgia. we often talk about free trade agreements - today with georgia, earlier with moldova and ukraine - and i hear many colleagues talking about 'historic steps', 'important moments' and they probably are. we too are absolutely in favour of respect for the principles of the european union and of other countries adopting them. however, the fact remains that i always feel a little bit of resentment and hatred towards russia, as if it were being disdained and i am not concerned. it's a little dainty, but that's the feeling. i think we should instead exercise that great peacekeeping force which has united nations that have been at war with each other for hundreds of years, including russia. it would be the most important thing to do.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, like mr corrao, i too wanted to make a few brief remarks, having listened to the debate, which was very interesting. i was struck by the fact that an italian colleague from the epp, mr martusciello, referred to the fact that this choice of the association agreement should not be seen as a disdain for russia. i think that is a speech which i have heard echoed in other speeches, but i think that is a very bad question. we must not look at the association agreement with georgia in this light but in the light of building up our strength and presence in the area as the european union. we cannot think that only the united states and russia have influence in the black sea, the caucasus and georgia. it is important that the european union can play a role and the association agreement allows, also through the economy, to play a political role.
it's a blue-card question. i'm not sure what it is. i agree that we must get to the root of the problem, but i would like to ask you, when you say that we must help and support the governments from which migrants come - and that is the root of the problem - and the countries from which migrants come, do you have in mind the countries from which these migrants are fleeing? they are fleeing wars, famine, and cruel dictatorships. because they don't come like that, because there's not enough development there. they come because they're going to jail.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am speaking on behalf of many associations which are denouncing the khartoum process and the outsourcing of border controls for the purpose of refusal of entry in breach of european law. they are particularly afraid of agreements with the eritrean dictatorship, from which 30% of the 150 000 refugees who have arrived in italy are now fleeing. we have already seen how the export of democracy is a disaster, a fraud. the export of migrants to concentration camps in eritrea or sudan will also produce disasters and frauds. the khartoum process is described by the italian presidency as a historic leap forward. the leap is towards new agreements with transit countries to block departures, under the pretext of outsourcing the right of asylum. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the protection of the environment.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the khartoum process has revealed the pitfalls and hypocrisy of a difficult cooperation based on a fragile framework. the strategy that is being proposed to control the flow of migrants from east africa appears to be lacking in human rights protection. on the one hand, it declares its intention to combat the activities of criminal networks which profit from migrants and human trafficking; on the other hand, there is dialogue and involvement with repressive, bloodthirsty and freedom-threatening regimes, which are the main cause of migration flows. just think of eritrea, a de facto military dictatorship, with thousands of political opponents in prison, or sudan, where genocide and crimes against humanity have been committed for decades. other governments, such as ethiopia, egypt and somalia, have also shown themselves to be lax in respecting human rights. eritrea and libya have never ratified the 1951 geneva convention relating to the status of refugees, despite stating their willingness to promote cooperation on asylum and international protection on the basis of the principles of international law, by referring to the convention itself. libya, one of the countries where thousands of migrants are concentrated trying to reach europe, did not even participate in the meeting in rome on 28 november. the joint declaration of the khartoum process was signed on that occasion, with the aim of setting up reception centres outside europe's borders. the cases of asylum seekers should be examined here, with a view to their subsequent resettlement in europe. rather than tackling the causes of migration, the aim seems to be to find agreements on how to deal with migrants before they reach europe, risking a repeat of the libyan-italian agreement between gaddafi and berlusconi. there is a fear that if the reception centres are set up in countries where there is a serious democratic and civil emergency, they may, in the absence of adequate controls, become ghettos and refugee camps where the protection of human rights cannot be guaranteed. a comprehensive approach to immigration is needed, aiming not only at unhypocritical cooperation with third countries but also at ensuring safe and legal pathways and amending european asylum legislation, with particular regard to the most vulnerable, such as children.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the enormous flow of migrants facing europe makes it necessary to adopt new multilateral cooperation mechanisms with the countries of origin and transit of migrants, towards proposals that should be sustainable and lasting. no state, no organization can provide effective answers on its own. a plan must be based on dialogue between states and common resources, but above all on political will, also in order to rescue thousands of migrants from the hands of the merchants of death. we will never be able to really tackle the causes of this flow of refugees unless we forcefully raise the issue of respect for human rights in the countries of origin of migrants and above all within a comprehensive and holistic approach to immigration. for this reason i have reservations about the final conclusion drawn in the khartoum case. i am referring to the possibility of setting up refugee camps, which could be used for reception or detention, and here we need to be clear about the asylum seeker, who must always be accompanied by a process of verifying that human rights are being respected and, above all, by adherence to all international conventions. what will be the role of the european parliament? the memory of libya's agreements with the italian government is still alive. we would not under any circumstances be prepared to accept such a violation of human rights. today we all know what the gaddafi government has been called.
author of the book. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as is often the case in such cases, i felt that the venezuelan question was more a question of 'typo' than a real problem during the negotiations and the presentation of the amendments. it is clear that there is a problem of democracy and human rights violations in venezuela. however, we are still unable to look at the matter in a truly objective and objective way because we have, on the one hand, supporters of president maduro and therefore pro-government and, on the other hand, supporters of the opposition, which however may not be a spontaneous opposition but induced by some third western power. so i think we should learn and try to look at situations like this in a more third-party and impartial way, perhaps by finding concrete third-party bodies that are mainly concerned with protecting the venezuelan population and the human rights of the inhabitants of venezuela.
author of the book. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, according to a recent report by amnesty international, in mauritania, a very poor country of 3.5 million people, it is estimated that 700 000 people are forced to live in the employ of a master. in mauritania, slavery, used as a real weapon of power, is still an atrocious reality and there are several forms: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the problem of child labour, including the introduction of a system of compulsory and voluntary child labour. to be a slave in mauritania means, therefore, to be born a slave, the property of a white master. the situation today is even more serious than in the past. every day human beings born into slavery are discriminated against, humiliated, castrated in their right to be human. on 11 november 2014, at least nine known anti-slavery activists were arrested and transferred to various detention centres in the southern city of rosso. among them is biram dah ould abeid, a kind of mauritanian mandela. his fault? fighting this drama. the european union should use all its strength to demand the immediate release of all prisoners of conscience from the mauritanian authorities.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, once again we are here to talk about biram dah ould abeid, a courageous activist who was tortured and imprisoned in mauritania on 11 november for his fight against one of the world's greatest social ills. a scourge that offends the freedom of the poorest, of children, of the illiterate and of those who are forced to serve a master in order to live in poverty. slavery, although banned in 1981, continues to be a systemic evil in a society based on forms of subordination that are unjustifiable and difficult to sanction. we've been sending money to this country for a while. more than eur 195 million was transferred for the implementation of social integration projects. others come through the development fund. but in doing so we are complicit with a government which has not yet understood that without respect for human rights there is no cotonou, there is no state and there can be no friendship with europe. we therefore ask the high representative not to close his eyes and to do everything in his power to ensure that europe does not become a party to those who, today, as in 2012, imprisoned a man who is a symbol of an unequal struggle, to which we must all stand strong and determined. biram dah ould abeid has to be released. all the mauritanian people must be freed.
in writing. with this resolution, parliament once again demonstrates its commitment to the protection of human rights and democracy. we deplore all forms of slavery, violence, restrictions on individual liberties and racial discrimination and strongly believe in dialogue with the mauritanian authorities in order to contribute to democracy, stability and development in the country. mauritania is a strategic partner in the framework of the eu strategy for security and development in the sahel and an important interlocutor for the pursuit of clear and enforceable human rights policies, in line with the eu strategic framework on human rights and democracy. i would urge the creation of european parliament observer missions to the political, administrative and judicial authorities of the mauritanian government, with the task of reporting on the progress made by the country towards democracy and the protection of human rights.
author of the book. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, have you heard of sudan call? a call for an end to one-party rule in sudan and a petition for a transitional government in this country. the ink on sudan call's appeal was finished as the sudanese government's national intelligence and security service began arresting the signatories. among the signatories are amin mekki madani, a lawyer and human rights defender, and farouk abu issa, the leader of the opposition: people arrested just because they decided to oppose a government and speak out differently. so, in sudan, there is systematic violence against anyone who decides to carry out any kind of peaceful resistance movement. these people are brave people whom we must try to defend and that is what the resolution is about. let's try to pass it.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the illegal trade in human beings. to date, human rights violations are being documented across the country by various human rights organizations. the massacres in the darfur region, the bombings against the population of south kordofan and the raids against civilians in the blue nile region are all events which bear witness to these human rights violations. added to this is the abuse of voices and dissent in khartoum and those who report these violations. this is the case of amin mekki medani, one of these voices. arrested a few days ago at the age of 76, he is being arbitrarily detained by sudanese security agents. with this resolution, mr president, we are strongly calling for the launching of an inclusive peace dialogue capable of moving the country towards a fully fledged democracy and the rule of law. without a serious internal peace process in sudan, the entire horn of africa region is in danger of seeing any attempt at stabilization fail, with inevitable consequences also for the migratory flows to and from the south. the liberation of medani is the first step towards peace, dialogue and an end to violations.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there are many things that could be said about sudan, and almost all of them are painful. we could talk about the humanitarian situation in darfur, a crisis that is far from being resolved, or the fact that the international criminal court has recently suspended the prosecution of war crimes committed in the region and consequently of president omar hassan al-bashir, bitterly noting the lack of initiative on the part of the united nations in this regard and therefore the waste of resources in keeping this prosecution open. i would therefore like to limit myself to making an appeal at this minute. an appeal for dr. medani, a human rights defender, an activist, a brave man but an old and sick man, arrested without ceremony for participating in an initiative called sudan call aimed only at helping his people out of dictatorship. an appeal to all those who have been imprisoned for the same reason, to the representatives of the opposition, to journalists and to all those who have paid a high price for the desire for freedom and democracy, just on the eve of new sham elections. let them go! i say this to the sudanese government and to the entire international community. let them go! because a country that arrests its children is a country that arrests and kills its future.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the problems raised today by the migration flows from the mediterranean can be tackled more effectively with a holistic approach by the european union to the phenomenon. there are ambitious but necessary objectives to be achieved, with actions aimed at avoiding further tragedies in the mediterranean, rethinking the legal means of access, dismantling criminal groups that profit from the despair of migrants, respect for human rights and human dignity, the revision of european legislation in this field - in particular the dublin regulation - having a fast timetable for the examination of migrants' applications, having strict controls on how funds relating to immigration and asylum are spent. the latter is a fundamental aspect: in italy, an investigation is under way into speculation in the funds of the reception system. a disturbing interplay between political circles and organized crime has been revealed. the attention to control must never be lost. the hope is that the european union will soon begin a discussion to reshape its immigration policies. i therefore support the motion for a resolution.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i supported the resolution because it is another small but important step in keeping a watchful eye on an immigration problem which we can no longer hypocritically call an emergency. an emergency that becomes routine is clearly a hypocritical contradiction; we must not lose the opportunity to insist, as from tomorrow, that we demand every day that everything that has to be done be done. we must clarify triton immediately, so that the future can be defined immediately, so that the heroism and efforts that italy and the italians have supported with mare nostrum are not in vain. the distribution of responsibilities must be absolutely fair and frontex must have a headquarters in italy, for example in sicily, or in any case in a mediterranean country which is an outpost of the flows. finding new channels of legal migration is a must. it is very urgent that the possibility of obtaining status in the country of origin be verified in order to prevent further tragedies.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, there is now a widespread awareness that in order to tackle the problems of migration, coordinated action is needed in many areas. the main causes of migration, war, poverty and persecution must be prevented and tackled in the countries of origin. we must do everything possible to save the lives of those who are forced to undertake extremely dangerous journeys, and who are exploited by criminal organizations. the development of alternative and legal channels to reach europe and a more efficient and integrated asylum and reception system are needed. these and other measures are referred to in the resolution we voted for, which, although it cannot be considered, nor does it intend to be, a complete and exhaustive answer, nevertheless represents a useful step, perhaps the most useful one that this parliament can take, precisely to facilitate and accelerate the adoption of these measures, by identifying certain priorities for action and urging the states, the commission and their own internal organs to move along the line drawn. that is why i voted in favour of the resolution.
madam president, i welcome the vote today. the absence of an integrated immigration policy is no longer acceptable. it is becoming more and more evident, and unfortunately it is becoming more and more evident after every tragedy at sea, that there is a need to develop a global approach to migration, where all member states take collective responsibility for these sad events, showing solidarity and commitment. we need concrete, decisive responses, which deal first and foremost with the causes and not just the effects, responses which aim to find new channels of legal migration and which develop a strategy of cooperation with third countries. the mediterranean, our sea, has become a graveyard, a mass grave of unidentified bodies. this situation requires urgent responses and a general awareness that the border countries are no longer able to cope with this situation on their own.
in writing. the regulation of the special incentive scheme for sustainable development and good governance (spg+), to which the republic of the philippines has applied to participate, sets out the obligation of third countries to implement the objectives adopted by regional fisheries organisations, one of which is the fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated (iuu) fishing. i voted today in favour of this resolution which does not grant gsp+ status to the philippines, because the republic of the philippines is considered a non-cooperating third country in the fight against illegal fishing. i think it is essential to stress the absolute need to ensure the coherence and credibility of european policies, in order to avoid discrimination and unfair competition for european fishermen and to protect european consumers. the issue of illegal fishing is certainly one that applies to every country and we cannot set a precedent. if we want to ask our fishermen to make efforts on sustainability, we cannot turn a blind eye to other countries, like the philippines, which do not respect the rules.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution on the application of a system of generalized tariff preferences to the philippines. i agree with the objections to the commission's delegated regulation, particularly in relation to the human rights violations in that country, as stated in the report of the un special rapporteur, in particular on human rights trafficking. i also agree with the assessment that the concept of the responsibility of the marketing state should be developed more fully as a means of closing markets to iuu fishery products.
in writing. i voted against the objection put forward by some colleagues to deny the philippines the special incentive arrangement for sustainable development and good governance (spg+). i believe that the granting of the gsp+ scheme to the philippines, on the basis of compliance with the criteria set out in the recent reform of the european system of generalised preferences (gsp), can be a serious test for the manila government and a significant encouragement from us to continue with even greater conviction on the path taken to improve the implementation of international conventions on respect for human rights, labour rights and, in this particular case, to curb the phenomenon of illegal fishing in the country. it is equally clear that the granting of the special gsp+ scheme to the philippines will require the eu to keep the philippine government's commitments under constant review and, in the event of non-compliance, the decision taken today can and must be reviewed.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on the commission delegated regulation of 19 august 2014 amending annex iii to regulation (eu) no 978/2012 of the european parliament and of the council applying a scheme of generalised tariff preferences to the philippines. i believe that the european commission's comments on the violations of fundamental human rights in the philippines are particularly worrying and therefore call for an amendment to the current text.
in writing. on 28 february 2014, the commission received a request from the republic of the philippines to participate in the gsp (general system of preferences). i have decided to support this resolution because i fully share the view that this request can only be accepted if the philippines makes a concrete commitment to eliminate illegal fishing. the basis for this is the assumption that the commission is not empowered to grant preferential access to the european market for fishery products from the philippines without a guarantee of their legal origin.
in writing. i regret today's vote because i believe that the gsp+ request of the republic of the philippines should not be accepted at this time, given the non-cooperative state in the fight against illegal fishing. the eu cannot allow preferential access to the european market for fishery products without a guarantee of their legal origin. we cannot set a precedent for this, especially in view of the efforts we have asked our fishermen to make in the area of sustainability. despite the signs of progress in this country, we cannot ignore a whole series of problems and violations which concern in particular the problem of trafficking in persons, especially women and children, for the purpose of exploitation of labour in various sectors including agriculture, construction and fisheries. i hope, however, that if the yellow card turns into a red card, the decision will be taken to abolish the gsp+ system.
in writing. we voted against this motion for a resolution on the application of the generalised system of preferences plus (gsp+) to the philippines, because on the one hand we believe that, as the philippines has ratified the 27 un/ilo conventions required for the granting of the programme, there is no formal obstacle and, on the other hand, we are convinced of the usefulness of gsp+ in supporting the economic, political and social development of the philippines. in addition, it should be noted that the gsp+ mechanism has recently been renewed and made more stringent, with new sanction possibilities that may go as far as withdrawal of the programme. politically, the granting of the programme is the most effective way of improving the situation in the country, which was further complicated by typhoon hagugit in early december, and of having the possibility of influencing certain strategic choices through monitoring and sanctioning mechanisms. it should also be remembered that the granting of gsp+ is not a gift, but only the starting point of a long-term process aimed at improving economically, politically and socially a state in difficulty.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing is still taking place in the philippines, which is guaranteed the system of generalised tariff preferences with the eu. the philippine government is called upon to prevent and eradicate this practice, not only to ensure environmental sustainability, but also to protect competition and protect european consumers. in view of the fact that the philippines should be suspended from gsp+ status until it demonstrates that it is actively cooperating in the fight against illegal fishing, i would like to vote in favour.
in writing. i voted in favour because i believe it is right to protect the activity of european fishing vessels from unfair competition from fishermen from countries which do not respect our own rules on fishing and the exploitation of the labour force.
in writing. before granting the gsp+ tariff preferences to the philippines, i believe it is important to ensure that the country is actively cooperating with the eu in the fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. we cannot allow honest fishermen and fish producers to suffer unfair competition from the import and sale of tuna and other fish caught illegally in philippine waters. first of all, we must give the commission, and in particular dg mare, time to clarify and complete the inquiry which is under way. let us not forget that the fight against illegal fishing is one of the cornerstones of the european union's action to prevent the overexploitation of fish stocks, to safeguard marine habitats and thus to ensure sustainable fishing. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval, and the council will then be able to take a decision on the matter. when the philippines demonstrates that it has made real progress in adopting effective management and control measures to tackle the problem of illegal fishing, we can reassess the request for further tariff concessions.
in writing. i vote in favour of: the banking crisis management and resolution directive (brrd) sets out the rules for the intervention of shareholders and creditors of banks, both in the event of a bank's recovery or restructuring and in the event of its failure. in the event of any future banking crisis, the cost will be borne by the credit institutions themselves, with a system of compulsory contributions.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this regulation on ex ante contributions to the resolution financing mechanisms. i agree with the decision not to raise objections to the regulation. i agree with the assessments made and particularly with the fact that member states must ensure that contributions are collected at least annually from the relevant credit institutions and investment firms authorized in their respective territories.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in voting today i supported the regulation on ex ante contributions to the mechanisms for financing the resolution. i fully agree with the rapporteur's choice not to raise objections, as i agree with the commission's observations. i also support the idea of an obligation for member states to ensure that contributions are collected, at least annually, from the relevant authorized bodies in the relevant territory.
in writing. after careful consideration of the text, i would like to vote in favour.
in writing. i voted in favour of the measure because it aims to ensure that, in the event of any future banking crisis, the costs are borne by the credit institutions themselves, whose contributions will feed a specially set up fund.
in writing. i vote against: the agreement gives georgia a european perspective and allows it to apply for membership of the union. this agreement is part of the eu's eastward enlargement policy, as already seen with ukraine and moldova, mainly in the anti-russian role.
in writing. today i voted in favour of this agreement which will allow free trade between the eu and georgia: 29% of georgia's international trade is already directed to the european market. but it is also a deeply symbolic decision for georgia's transition from the soviet era to the european one. in georgia there is a strong national consensus in favor of integration with the west. georgia has made considerable progress in recent years with regard to human rights and democracy. this agreement can help to accelerate good governance and judicial reforms in georgia. as regards the situation in abkhazia and south ossetia, i hope that sooner or later the question of territorial integrity can be resolved and that the european union can help to bring about change. through the eu monitoring mission in georgia (eumm), the european union is providing concrete support for peace and stability along the hotspots of the border with abkhazia and south ossetia. the council yesterday extended the mandate of the european union monitoring mission in georgia for two years, demonstrating that the union continues to firmly support georgia's sovereignty and territorial integrity within its internationally recognised borders.
in writing. - i believe that the eu-georgia association agreement represents one of the most ambitious free trade agreements the eu has ever negotiated with a third country and, in view of the efforts made by georgia in relation to reforms to promote human rights and democracy, in building a free society based on the rule of law, democracy and social pluralism and in pursuing closer economic ties with the european union, i vote in favour of this report for the conclusion of the association agreement. i hope that with today's vote georgia will be able to better cope with the external pressure exerted by russia in the areas of abkhazia and the tskhinvali region/south ossetia and to reorient its exports towards new markets, as well as having a positive long-term effect on the economy and thus helping to improve the quality of life of its citizens.
in writing. i voted in favour of the eu-georgia association agreement because it is an agreement with a country which has shown for years that it wants to improve itself through a democratic process of structural reforms. i believe that agreements of this kind can reward efforts to protect fundamental human rights and promote democracy. economic developments will also be significant, and they can help citizens in a positive way.
in writing. we welcome the signing of this association agreement as it constitutes a significant step forward in relations between the european union and georgia and reaffirms the commitment of both parties to political association and economic integration. georgia has made significant progress in the area of institutional reforms with a view to further strengthening the stability, independence and effectiveness of institutions responsible for ensuring democracy (in particular the judiciary), the rule of law and good governance, as well as in strengthening the system for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms. although there is still much to be done, we note the efforts made by the georgian authorities in the field of democratic reforms and believe it appropriate to place confidence in the country and the georgian people.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, georgia has made considerable progress in strengthening its relations with the european union and has therefore benefited from additional financial allocations under the eastern partnership integration and cooperation programme. the ratification of the association agreement represents the beginning of a process of collaboration and cooperation aimed at ensuring greater stability on the continent. cooperation in the south caucasus is an essential element for the stability of the area and therefore it is necessary to preserve the balance of traditional economic relations in the region. in view of this, i would like to vote in favour.
in writing. following the european parliament resolution of 12 march 2014 on the evaluation and prioritisation of eu relations with the eastern partnership countries, i welcomed the significant progress made by georgia in reforms and in strengthening relations with the eu. however - and this is why i abstained - i believe that further efforts are needed to achieve national reconciliation and to achieve a more thoroughgoing reform of the judicial system. i hope that ratification of the agreement will help georgia to move closer to eu rules and values.
in writing. i vote against: the agreement contains a trade pillar that will lead to the creation of a comprehensive and deepened free trade area (dcfta) with the eu, which provides for the complete elimination of all tariffs.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this recommendation because this agreement will allow georgia to increase its market access to the eu considerably while, conversely, the eu will benefit from easier trade flows and better investment conditions in georgia. this is a very important vote because it will help to modernise the economy, stabilise european union investment in georgia and contribute to a better business environment for small and mediumsized enterprises.
in writing. i supported mr mamikins' recommendation because it concerns an agreement which will have a significant positive impact both on the georgian economy and on the european union. i am generally in favour of agreements which take account of the development opportunities of countries which want to have trade relations with the eu, provided that all the reciprocity clauses and safety standards necessary to protect our consumers and to ensure the competitiveness of our businesses are respected.
in writing. i have agreed to the report signed by mr mamikins, in the hope that this agreement will give georgia a future in the european family. the agreement, which provides for the creation of a global free trade area, is of considerable benefit to the country, allowing it easier access to the market. it will help to facilitate trade flows between georgia and the european union and to ensure better investment conditions for eu member states.
in writing. the association agreement with georgia will not only strengthen relations with the eu, providing mutual benefits through wider market access, but will also help align georgian legislation with the eu. cross-sectoral cooperation is a key element for georgia's socio-economic growth and the development of long-term cooperation between the parties. in view of this, i would like to vote in favour.
in writing. i have chosen to abstain on the conclusion of the association agreement (aa) between the european union and georgia because, while i am in favour of the creation of a deep and comprehensive free trade area (dcfta) between the eu and georgia, i believe that some of the conditions required to allow full access to the eu market and to ensure that both parties benefit from the trade flows provided for in the agreement are not fully met. i hope that georgia will soon align itself with the eu acquis, which will contribute to the modernisation of the economy, stabilisation of eu investment in georgia and a better and more dynamic business environment.
in writing. i chose to vote against because the agreement aims to eliminate all import duties and to prohibit the eu from imposing export duties on almost all types of goods, thus harming european businesses.
