mr president, today is the 23rd anniversary of the tragic events which took place on 13 january 1991. at that time, the recently re-established independent state of lithuania faced the ultimate test. for several days thousands of defenceless people, in cold temperatures, surrounded the buildings which embody the independence of the lithuanian state: the parliament, the tv tower and the independent radio and television building. that night, the soviet military, with their tanks and machine guns, advanced on the singing and chanting crowds. fourteen people died from bullets and injuries caused by tanks and hundreds were injured, but no one in the crowd left. today we pay tribute to those who were killed and to all those to whom we owe our freedom. we will never forget them, and we pin a flower the colour of the sky close to our hearts. we give thanks that today lithuania, and the other baltic states, are free and independent, and are equal members among freedom-loving nations. hopefully the day will come when those who committed crimes against humanity will be brought to justice.
i congratulate the rapporteur on a really good report which highlights the problems faced by labour inspectorates in the european union and provides policy recommendations on how to reduce undeclared work and help inspectorates to work more effectively. i fully agree that action plans to combat undeclared work should be drawn up by national labour inspectorates and other relevant bodies, as this is the only way to ensure the social protection of workers. undertakings that are not covered by the general rules on the free movement of workers should be exempted from the obligation to provide information on the conditions under which they are able to exercise their right to freedom of movement. member states should therefore be much more active in combating low-wage work and shadow part-time work. i also believe that member states should improve administrative cooperation between the various institutions - labour inspectorates, tax inspectorates, municipalities and social security and social insurance services - at national and european union level, as this would help to implement eu labour law provisions, reduce undeclared work and more effectively address problems arising from the different labour market regulation in the different member states.
thank you for your interesting report. indeed, employee financial participation in the form of revenue sharing is an advanced and effective tool that not only provides employees with an additional financial benefit for working in the company, but also involves employees in the strategic decision-making of the companies. this undoubtedly increases the interest of employees in the company to contribute to the improvement of the company's performance, increases their motivation to work and, at the same time, entitles them to the benefits of a successful company. unfortunately, the practice of this enterprise management tool is still not uniformly developed in different countries, and it is therefore necessary and useful to discuss this issue at the level of the european union, to seek and propose ways of changing the situation in the member states, and which models would be most acceptable. i am of course in favour of voluntary participation only and i also think it is necessary to talk about the risks of such participation, the possible danger to workers as the weaker party in the employment relationship and the necessary measures to protect workers against possible undesirable effects.
the rapporteur. − it is indeed very important that we have the opportunity to produce a report on social protection for all, including the self-employed, in the european parliament, and i would like to thank all my colleagues, shadow rapporteurs, for their constructive cooperation in the preparation of this report. it is particularly important to discuss this issue at european union level, as the economic crisis has been a severe test for the sustainability of social protection systems. rising unemployment and falling incomes have increased the need for social security expenditure, while at the same time national budgets have been balanced by cuts in pensions and other social benefits. this has affected the most vulnerable people, some of whom have been pushed out of poverty. in this context, the report stresses that the objective of ensuring the well-being of its citizens cannot be achieved without sustainable and adequate social protection systems that promote social inclusion, social justice and income and quality social and health care services accessible to all. and with the constant evolution of our economic market, it is vital to ensure that no social group is left without social protection, which is why i call on member states to do more to increase youth employment and to ensure that young workers are not discriminated against by limiting their rights to social protection. member states should also pay particular attention to ensuring social protection for the most vulnerable groups of people (unemployed, disabled people raising children alone, young people, pensioners, young families). social services should be more accessible to all the most vulnerable people in need of long-term care, especially in rural areas. in the communication, i also call on the member states and the commission to take measures to combat all forms of discrimination in the labour market in the area of social protection, so that women's pay for the same work and social benefits, including pensions, are not lower than men's and that maternity protection is guaranteed. we also talk about undeclared work (fictitious, shadow work) which distorts competition, creates the threat of social dumping and ultimately leads to a violation of the rights of social workers. i also drew attention in the report to the social protection of the selfemployed, because there is a risk that, as the nature of employment changes and new categories of workers are increasingly confronted with situations of emergency, they are not and will not be adequately protected. i believe that social protection policy towards the selfemployed is complicated by the fact that there is no universally accepted definition of the situation in the european union. for these reasons, i urge the commission to develop a framework of concepts. and to sum up, i would like to stress that social protection systems cannot be weakened. on the contrary, they must be developed to ensure maximum coverage, sustainability and adequacy. social benefits should be seen as an investment in people, enabling them to adapt to changes in the labour market, to protect themselves against poverty and social exclusion and to help them integrate into the labour market.
for the ecr group the presidency of the council of the european union is always a major challenge, not only politically but also organisationally. it is with satisfaction and pleasure that i can say on behalf of the ecr group that the lithuanian presidency has been a high-level and successful one. the priorities of the lithuanian presidency include energy security, the eastern partnership, strengthening the eu's external borders, and cooperation between the baltic sea countries. lithuania has set itself the ambitious goal of ensuring consistency in decision-making, and more than 500 legislative requests have been planned on the eu agenda. however, the most important achievement of the lithuanian presidency was, without doubt, the agreement with the european parliament on the eu's multiannual budget for the period 2014-2020, i.e. the union's multiannual financial framework. the failure of ukraine to sign the association agreement with the eu could not be called a failure of the lithuanian presidency, as many commentators have called it, but the obvious consequence of a game, a game played by the kiev authorities and the outcome of which was predicted even before the meeting. the presidency is a great opportunity to promote the member state itself, to strengthen its role in the union and to present a positive image of the state as a reliable partner. unfortunately, the recent scandalous events in lithuania, which targeted national minorities, left a bad impression and became a bit of a teaspoon in the honey pot of the lithuanian presidency. on christmas eve, at the request of a representative of the lithuanian government, the vilnius district court, under pressure from public statements by politicians, imposed a draconian fine of 13 thousand euros on the director of the šalčininkai district municipality, boleslav dashkevič, for the use of bilingual information boards with street names in the official lithuanian and polish languages, which hang on private houses. in this region, 80% of the population is the local polish ethnic minority. the fight against indigenous minority languages, supported by the highest authorities, is nothing but an expression of extreme nationalism, which should not exist in the european union. in a special resolution on linguistic diversity last july, the european parliament called on member states that had not yet done so to sign and ratify the european charter for regional or minority languages. parliament also called for the condemnation of any action which discriminates on the basis of language or which, through explicit or implicit assimilation, violates the languages and identities of other communities. i call on the council and the commission to take immediate action in implementing this resolution and to respond to put an end to repression, discrimination and persecution of national minorities in the territory of the union. thank you for your attention and good luck to greece. (the president agreed to answer the question after the blue card had been raised (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
the question asked when the blue card is raised. first of all, are you speaking on behalf of your group or on behalf of yourself, specifically speaking about the national minorities in lithuania and allegedly certain abuses? and the second thing - you probably know very well that the official language in lithuania is lithuanian, and those fines that were imposed, they accumulated to the amount that you mentioned. and another question: do you think that a public servant can afford to disobey the laws of the state in which he works and of which he is a citizen?
answer to the question posed by the blue card. thank you very much for asking. yes, i said that i was speaking on behalf of the ecr group, and that is the view of our group, because one of the authorities in our group, the former british prime minister margaret thatcher, was the one who fought for the europe we want today, and unfortunately it is not yet in my country, because national minorities (the indigenous minorities who have lived here for 700 years) are persecuted and punished for using their mother tongue, even in areas where national minorities make up 80% of the population. these entries are written next to the official language. they were legally hung back in 1991, when the law was passed, when we, the poles of lithuania, fought for independence and won this independence. but after 20 years, that law was repealed, and the situation is the same today. this is outrageous and it cannot be.
for the efd group lithuania was the first of the three baltic states to have the honour and the difficult task of chairing the european union in the second half of last year. i am pleased that a relatively young member of the community has shown herself to be mature, politically credible and one of the most solid members of the community, capable of reaching important agreements and finding the best solutions. i congratulate you, your excellency the president. understandably, the eastern partnership was the main focus of the presidency. the fact that ukraine and the european union have not signed an association agreement and a free trade agreement is sometimes seen as a defeat for lithuania. i think that is a fundamentally wrong assessment. we have to admit that neither ukraine itself nor the institutions of the european union have done everything they could to put all the dots on the partnership agreement. however, it should not be forgotten that during this period, lithuania's presidency in the eastern partnership achieved other important things: an agreement on a visa-free regime for moldova, the signing of four other agreements. under the lithuanian presidency, agreement was reached on a seven-year budget. the commission has also been active in the area of the fight against fraud and corruption. in the past six months, an agreement was reached with the european investment bank and the structural funds on the possibility of financial resources to support small and medium-sized enterprises. but when we talk about really important achievements and good results, we should not forget that the european union today stands at the crossroads between federation and national unity, and the decision on which direction to take is inevitable. perhaps not for this parliament, perhaps not for another, but for the one elected after 2020, it will be inevitable. but until then, we must make some changes to some of the increasingly vocal political positions in the community. if the slogan 'more europe' means fewer freedoms and rights for the nation states, it will not be good. let us turn our policy today towards a union of nation states, because it is strong states with their own identity, culture and religion that are the basis of a strong europe.
i welcome and rejoice in the excellent results of the lithuanian presidency and particularly in the agreement on the european union's multiannual financial framework, which will ensure that all eu-funded programmes are implemented on time. the lithuanian presidency, after long negotiations, finally agreed on european union programmes with a social dimension, which means that the european union budget will be people-oriented and our citizens will reap tangible benefits. i would like to congratulate them on the agreements reached on the european social fund, the european globalisation adjustment fund and the fund for the support of the most deprived, because all these funds contribute to the well-being of our people and are dedicated to people affected by the crisis. the youth guarantee initiative and the erasmus+ programme for education and training, adopted under the lithuanian presidency, are of great importance in this context, as together we have achieved that the solution to the problem of unemployment should focus on increasing youth employment. moreover, it is indeed a good achievement that the budget for education and training has been increased by as much as 40% compared to the previous financial programming period. in fact, lithuania's presidency succeeded in finding common compromises, in adopting common decisions on the common banking supervision and resolution mechanism, on the deposit guarantee scheme directive, and on the long-debated tobacco directive. i am also very pleased about the additional pension rights for mobile workers and the solid progress that has been made, and about the directive on posted workers and about many other issues that are actually making the european union more reliable, growing and open. and in conclusion, mr president, i thank you and your team, i thank ambassador karoblis, i thank deputy minister vytautas leskevičius, who has really worked very well with the european parliament, and the entire lithuanian government and all the people here, because i know how hard they have worked, how many nights they have not slept, how much they have been nervous, but the result is really good.
as the representative of lithuania, i would like to thank all my colleagues from the european people's party and other political groups who have contributed to the success of the lithuanian presidency. to all of you who have worked hand in hand with us in this chamber, thank you for your understanding, your support and your cooperation. a few things. lithuania's presidency of the european union has succeeded in focusing europe's attention on closer relations with the eastern partnership countries, and the european union has lost its illusions about moscow's policy objectives after russia's pushback. the refusal of ukraine to sign a historic agreement with the european union at the vilnius summit is only a short-term and very costly victory for russian and pro-russian forces in ukraine. we must admit that our eastern partnership programme started out as a bureaucratic and technical programme, but it has now become clear that this is a geopolitical issue and we must approach it accordingly. i would note that russia has completely destroyed its image in the world: many people have realized that russia does not offer friendly partnership, but seeks dominance. russia, by playing hardball, may win short-term victories, but in the long run, the nation will seek to break free from russian influence. the lithuanian presidency was successful in particular because it made the eastern neighbourhood a fully-fledged part of the european union's agenda. finally, although the eastern partnership is not one of greece's priorities, i believe that it is this policy that we must pay particular attention to in the next six months.
it is very gratifying to hear so many compliments on lithuania and it is gratifying to hear that lithuania has surprised many with its well-organised presidency. the largest number of agreements was reached involving both the banking union and the multiannual budget, as well as programmes implementing them, especially in terms of reducing youth unemployment. the vilnius meeting was a key event in the strengthening of relations with the eastern partnership countries. now we have to take into account the games of the great actors, we must not leave the ukrainian people alone. the eu also wants to consolidate as soon as possible the agreements reached at the summit with those countries which are firmly on the path towards rapprochement with the european union. i think we have achieved the objectives of the presidency, which were energy security, integrated border management, the european union's baltic sea strategy, the eastern neighbourhood policy. i would like to emphasise, in response to the statements made by some of my colleagues, that the rights of national minorities in lithuania are fully in line with international agreements. this has been confirmed on several occasions by both the osce and other international institutions. nowhere in the world, and particularly in the case of the polish minority, do the polish minority have so many rights and opportunities to develop their culture, social life and the rest of their lives. so please stop harassing my colleagues and dragging them into political games. 23 years ago on january 13th, the people of lithuania stood in front of the parliament defending it with a song and with a firm belief. we were facing the soviet army. and it is perhaps a miracle that today, 23 years later, we are celebrating the successful lithuanian presidency of the european union. i would therefore like to thank the entire lithuanian team, i would like to thank my fellow members of the european parliament and i hope that we will have many opportunities in the future to cooperate and agree on issues of common concern.
in writing. - i voted for this motion. from 2014, member states will be required to develop national and/or regional smart specialisation strategies. the development of these strategies is a precondition for receiving erdf support for research, technological development and innovation. the past has shown that, in the absence of a common strategy, eu investment in research, technological development and innovation in member states or regions has not produced tangible results. the strategies will include specific requirements to allow financial resources to be concentrated on a limited number of research and innovation priorities, to encourage private investment, and to ensure a better control and monitoring system. without a strategy, a member state or its region will not be able to benefit from erdf funding.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document because the development of a smart specialisation strategy will be a necessary precondition for erdf support for research, technological development and innovation in the 2014-2020 programming period. the past has shown that without a comprehensive overall strategy, eu investment, including in research, technological development and innovation (r & td), has often not achieved the desired results: support is too broad, solutions are not adapted to the specific situation in a given place, and there is too little involvement of actors and representatives at administrative level. if a national or regional strategy for research and innovation in advanced specialisation is not developed at all or if there is no action plan ensuring the implementation of the strategy by 2016 when the action programmes are adopted, no erdf payment for the thematic objective of r&d&i shall be made.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. it should be noted that smart specialisation is a key element of the new eu cohesion policy and a prerequisite for the use of the european regional development fund. it is therefore essential that smart specialisation strategies are developed in partnership with the private sector, researchers and the innovation community. helping regions to maximise their innovation potential is essential resources should therefore be focused on priority areas for smart growth with competitive advantage. in particular, it is necessary to actively involve representatives of the business, research, education and innovation communities and other stakeholders. regions should be active in the implementation of the knowledge economy. in preparing the strategy, particular attention should be paid to the setting of priorities. the region must take account of its own strengths and comparative advantages. close cooperation and interaction between all relevant actors at all political levels should also be encouraged.
in writing. − i voted in favour of a proposal to discuss how the ep gives its consent in procedures where this is required by european union law. the 1986 european act sets out the approval procedure in two areas: association agreements and accession treaties. it is now a special legislative procedure under the treaty of lisbon. the procedure for the consent procedure in parliament's committees varies considerably. the aim is therefore to clarify the approval procedures and to make them more transparent and efficient.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution, which obliges commercial vehicle manufacturers to produce greener vehicles and also reduces the maximum average co2 emissions of new commercial vehicles from 203 g/km to 147 g/km, to be applied from 2020. global temperatures could rise to critical levels if fossil fuel combustion and the production of co2-emitting cars continue at this rate.
in writing. - i voted for this motion. after long and difficult negotiations, an agreement was reached in 2011 for an average emission ceiling target of 147 g co2/km to apply from 2020. i think we have to stick to this agreement in principle and provide clarity for the car industry without changing this objective. i agree with the rapporteur that the special credit system must be maintained. special loans are an important means of encouraging the introduction of low-emission vehicles on the market and providing incentives for manufacturers to develop low-carbon technologies. as it is not yet known which low-emission technology will be the first in the future, the special credit scheme should be maintained for light commercial vehicles. this does not require any additional financial resources and does not impose any burden on taxpayers.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it is parliament's acceptance of the commission's proposal to confirm the ambitious environmental targets set back in 2011 to reduce co2 emissions from new light commercial vehicles. in recent interinstitutional discussions, doubts were raised about the technical feasibility of such an objective, but the commission confirmed that it was technically possible to achieve the objective, and parliament therefore supported it. the environmental objectives were reaffirmed in parliament also because there have been no changes in environmental or economic conditions since the 147 g/km target was agreed which would justify a change in the target value and because manufacturers need planning certainty to take account of the long development cycle of light commercial vehicles.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it is necessary to reduce co2 emissions from new light commercial vehicles. the established rate of 147 g co2/km shall not be changed, i.e. neither increased nor decreased, in order to provide clarity for car manufacturers. in my view, the special credits must also be preserved, because they are additional credits for low-emission vehicles, they encourage the development of low-emission technologies. for each low-emission vehicle emitting less than 50 g co2/km, an additional credit shall be granted to the manufacturer's fleet. this scheme will expire in 2018. these credits are included in the commission proposal for co2 emissions from passenger cars but not for co2 emissions from light commercial vehicles.
in writing. − the european union is one of the most progressive regions in reducing co2 emissions and thus contributing to pollution reduction. the eu has a coherent approach to reducing co2 across a wide range of industrial sectors. this is a question that is of particular concern to the automotive industry. it is understood that passenger cars are not and cannot be an exception to reduce co2 emissions, but at the same time i agree that the requirements must be realistic and therefore the co2 emissions targets must not be changed. it is important that we not only be ambitious in this area but also understand the real potential of the industry to reduce co2 emissions from passenger cars, as it is necessary to remain competitive in the global market.
in writing. - i agree with the proposed amendments to the regulation. it is essential that the target of reducing co2 emissions from new light commercial vehicles is met by 2020. i believe that this will stimulate research and innovation in the automotive sector and thus promote environmentally sustainable growth and job creation, increase the competitiveness of eu industry in the world, reduce the eu's dependence on imported oil. in order to achieve this objective, it is appropriate to reduce fuel consumption as much as possible in economic terms, as fuel is an increasingly important part of business costs. it should be noted that speed limitation devices are a very economical means of reducing fuel consumption. they would help producers to meet the reduction targets set out in this regulation at much lower costs. it is therefore essential to support more effectively innovative efficient technologies, to continue to implement eco-innovation and to apply an excess emissions tax to the
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to 'develop a financial framework for eu action in the field of consumer policy for the period 2014-2020, thus maintaining a high level of consumer protection'. the consumer programme will be supported by eu consumer policy. the programme shall aim to put consumers first in the single market, in particular by ensuring greater product safety, by improving consumer awareness, education and knowledge of rights, by strengthening consumer rights and by ensuring effective remedies, in particular through alternative dispute resolution and by ensuring the enforcement of rights at cross-border level. i support the suggestions made to give greater attention to information and education initiatives to make consumers, especially young people, aware of their rights. further development of the evidence base is necessary to improve both eu and national consumer affairs policies, as well as the consumer markets scoreboard, which identifies consumer failing markets in europe. it is also important to implement legislation to enhance consumer rights as soon as possible and to complete the development of an alternative dispute resolution system.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it gives parliament's support for the eu consumer programme 2014-2020, with certain of its own proposals and amendments. under this programme, the eu commits to continue to invest in consumer protection, education and information, with a particular focus on the safety of goods and services offered on the market. one of the innovations proposed by parliament in the area of consumer protection in the coming year is the creation of websites providing consumers with comparable, reliable and easily accessible data on prices, quality of services and sustainability. the communication also proposes to provide financial support to european consumer organisations, while enhancing capacity and promoting the exchange of good practice, consumer research and consumer information for consumer organisations at local, regional, national and european levels.
in writing. − i have endorsed the proposal to establish a financial framework for the european union's action in the field of consumer policy for the period 2014-2020 in order to maintain a high level of consumer protection. the programme aims to enhance product safety by improving consumer awareness, education and rights awareness, by strengthening consumer rights, by ensuring effective remedies, by implementing alternative dispute resolution and by ensuring the enforcement of rights at cross-border level. eu consumers must be able to access goods and services with the assurance that effective market monitoring is being carried out in the eu. eu consumers must be fully informed about their rights and how to exercise them.
in writing. - i approve this document. i am convinced that consumer protection must play a greater role in the functioning of the internal market. although the funding provided is not large, i believe that if the funds are allocated properly, they will benefit the consumer. the priority areas for funding should include not only consumer information and education but also training and upskilling of professionals dealing with consumer complaints. these people must be professionals in their field in order to provide the affected consumer with appropriate assistance.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal, the purpose of which is to align council regulation (ec) no 774/94 opening and providing for the administration of certain community tariff quotas for certain meat and cereal products with the provisions of the treaty of lisbon.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it aligns the 1994 european community regulation opening and providing for the administration of certain community tariff quotas for certain meat and cereal products with the provisions of the treaty of lisbon as regards the procedural aspects of the establishment and administration of the quotas. these procedural changes are due to the modification of certain commission working and procedural rules by the treaty of lisbon and to the enhanced role of the european parliament.
in writing. - i voted in favour of aligning council regulation (ec) no 774/94 opening and providing for the administration of certain community tariff quotas for certain meat and cereal products with the treaty of lisbon.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to align the three council regulations on imports of olive oil and other agricultural products from turkey with the provisions of the treaty of lisbon.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it amends the regulations on the import into the eu of olive oil and other agricultural products originating in turkey. this communication confers certain powers on the commission to adopt implementing acts for the regulations and strengthens the role of the european parliament in so far as this is dictated by developments in the eu's common commercial policy as provided for in the treaty of lisbon.
in writing. − i have supported the alignment of the three council regulations concerning imports of olive oil and other agricultural products from turkey with the regime of implementing legislation and delegated acts applicable since the adoption of the treaty of lisbon.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to update regulation (eec) no 1601/91 laying down common rules for the definition, description and presentation of aromatised wines, aromatised wine-based drinks and aromatised wine-based cocktails. the aromatised wine sector is of major importance to the european union, with around 90% of the world's total production of this type of wine produced in the eu. the reform of the wine sector aims to lay down the definitions, descriptions, presentation, labelling and protection of geographical indications of aromatised wine products. it also provides for the improvement and clarification of the application of eu legislation on aromatised wine products and the introduction of a new well-defined quality policy for such products. i support the proposals made to include a clear indication that the labelling of aromatised wine products may refer to the ecological character of the products used in their production. it is also important to provide for rules requiring the indication of all the operations characterising the production of aromatised wine products: aromatisation, possible addition of alcohol, sweetening and the use of colours
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it aims to update the 1991 regulation laying down common rules for the definition, description and presentation of aromatised wines, aromatised wine-based drinks and aromatised wine-based cocktails. in the process of simplifying the common agricultural policy, it is also appropriate to restructure the way the eu wine market is managed, with a view to phasing out ineffective and costly intervention measures and redistributing costs in order to meet consumer needs as closely as possible and to make european wine more competitive. aromatised wine products represent a relatively large part of the european wine sector and are considered to be of major importance in terms of quality and quantity on the domestic and international markets. the eu produces around 90% of the world's aromatised wine and many member states already have a long tradition of producing this wine.
in writing. −in order to reduce global co2 emissions at the lowest cost, it is essential to implement carbon capture and storage (ccs) technologies. these technologies may continue to use fossil fuels, but would have a lower global warming impact. i agree with the rapporteur that, although the financial support of the member states is of particular importance for the development of ccs, the european union itself must nevertheless be involved in promoting the development of this technology and in ensuring the exchange of good practice. in order to stimulate innovation, reduce costs and ensure that this technology is accepted as a viable option, the development of pilot ccs projects should be supported.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. carbon capture and storage (ccs) is currently the only large-scale demonstration technology available for capturing carbon dioxide from the combustion of fossil fuels to produce low-carbon electricity. the eu was hoping to become the world leader in the deployment of carbon capture and storage (ccs) five years ago, but its measures have not produced significant results in this area. although the ner300 financial mechanism has been set up for this purpose and has been allocated around eur 1 billion, the majority of this amount has not been used to date. the main problem remains the lack of a specific business model in the eu and its member states to provide investors with a clear regulatory and funding environment to develop these technologies efficiently. i agree that ccs technologies must be integrated into the eu's long-term energy strategy, with clear financing mechanisms and a level playing field for different low-carbon energy technologies and fair competition between them.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it sets out the possible direction and the necessary measures to be taken by the european parliament to encourage the accelerated deployment of carbon capture and storage technology in the european union. the deployment of this technology will be crucial to achieving a significant reduction in global co2 emissions by 2050 at the lowest cost, as it would reduce emissions from large industrial installations and allow the continued use of some fossil fuels with a lower environmental impact. unfortunately, in the five years since the pilot projects were announced, almost none of these projects have been successful, and it is therefore considered that there is a need to review the governance of the projects, as well as to develop business models that encourage private investment. the report also proposes to require eu legislation to require each member state to publish indicative strategy papers explaining how they will achieve the target of reducing co2 emissions by almost 20% by 2050.
in writing. − i supported the need to develop an eu-wide strategy for carbon capture and storage (ccs) and identify sources of funding. five years ago, the european union was expected to become the world leader in the deployment of carbon capture and storage. however, the majority of the eur 1 billion allocated to ccs pilot projects under the european energy programme for economic recovery in 2009 has not yet been spent and will not be reallocated. one study after another shows that the cost of one tonne of co2 avoided by ccs will be lower than the cost of offshore wind and solar. the main problem remains the absence of a specific business model in the eu and its member states that would provide investors with a clear regulatory and funding environment to develop these technologies efficiently. i believe that ccs technologies must be integrated into the eu's long-term energy strategy and that clear funding mechanisms must be established.
in writing. − we have been discussing issues related to these technologies since 2009. i then raised the question of the effective protection of the environment through the use of ccs technologies. this question remains relevant today. on the other hand, advances in science and new methods make the use of this technology much safer. on the other hand, i would like to reiterate my point made earlier that we should not talk about these technologies in the first place, but about reducing carbon dioxide emissions.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. in particular, the deployment of capture and storage technology is essential to reduce global co2 emissions by 2050 at the lowest cost. it should be noted that the application of this technology will not only reduce emissions from large industrial installations, but will also allow the continued use of some fossil fuels with a reduced global warming impact. the absence of ccs in a long-term energy strategy will severely constrain efforts to combat climate change at national, union and global levels. this is why it is essential that each member state submits indicative strategy papers explaining how they will achieve the 2050 target. it is important that the commission and the member states make greater efforts to remove the main regulatory, financial and social barriers to the use of carbon capture and storage technology. member states should be prepared to actively ensure the development of this technology as well as the proper observance of environmental standards.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the ehealth action plan 2012-2020. e-health is a tool and a more universal way to improve the quality and efficiency of healthcare in the 21st century. while the right to quality healthcare is recognised as a fundamental right, the increasing demand for healthcare services as a result of an ageing population, the impact of chronic diseases, the mobility of patients and healthcare professionals, together with the increasing expectations of citizens for the quality of healthcare and the decreasing budgets for healthcare, do not always ensure the quality of the provision of these services. i agree with the rapporteur that there is a huge potential market in ehealth. in other words, facilitating access to healthcare for people living in remote or sparsely populated areas, improving working conditions, reducing waiting times and ensuring a safe, efficient and high-quality delivery process for healthcare services possible measures to tackle healthcare system problems.
in writing. - i voted for this motion. the ongoing economic downturn, the increasing mobility of people and the reduction of national health budgets pose major challenges to national health systems and the proper delivery of such services. the main purpose of the health system in each member state is to provide safe, high-quality and effective healthcare. the provision of remote healthcare could become one of the ways to provide healthcare services in a flexible and efficient manner to certain targeted patient groups, such as those receiving home care. i support the call for member states to integrate health services into existing medical systems and for eu-wide standards to be established for the development of eu-wide ehealth systems and for ways to harmonise them across member states.
in writing. − i voted for this report because it sets out parliament's view of a possible eu ehealth action plan, or telemedicine, by 2020 to ensure innovative healthcare in the 21st century. e. health a measure to improve access to healthcare for people living in remote or sparsely populated areas, to improve working conditions, to reduce waiting times and, above all, to help ensure safe, effective and quality healthcare. however, to achieve these objectives, healthcare providers need to cooperate with each other on a wider scale than is possible due to competence and language barriers. this requires technical standardisation and interoperability of eu healthcare systems and the establishment of certification and identification schemes at eu level. of course, data protection, confidentiality, privacy or liability are also very important issues that need to be addressed if we want to successfully deploy ehealth.
in writing. − i voted in favour, as the economic downturn has reduced health budgets in member states and it is therefore necessary to find ways to increase the efficiency and sustainability of health systems. e-health can be part of the solution to these problems a means of improving access to healthcare for people living in remote or sparsely populated areas, improving working conditions, reducing waiting times and, most importantly, helping to ensure safe, effective and quality healthcare. i believe that standards should be set for the development of ehealth systems used at eu level and that they should be harmonised across member states to ensure their effectiveness.
in writing. − e-health becomes a means of improving the quality of healthcare, while also providing access to healthcare in more remote areas. in supporting this report, i hope that the measures it proposes will contribute to improving patient health literacy and access to healthcare. i believe that the provisions contained in the report will bring positive developments in this new and dynamically developing area.
in writing. − i support the ehealth action plan presented, which extends the ehealth action plan adopted in 2004. the plan's focus on improving the quality and accessibility of healthcare, reducing healthcare costs and ensuring greater equality for european citizens is welcome. i think it's a tool and a more universal way to improve the quality and increase the efficiency of health care in the 21st century. it can improve access to healthcare for people living in remote areas, improve working conditions, reduce waiting times and help to ensure safe, effective and quality healthcare. however, it is necessary to ensure technical standardisation and interoperability of eu healthcare systems, and to establish certification and identification schemes at eu level. the successful deployment of these services requires the resolution of issues related to data protection, confidentiality, privacy or liability. the opinion of doctors and healthcare professionals, patient associations, should be taken into account before and during the development of healthcare applications. it is necessary to guarantee appropriate support for smes in order to ensure a level playing field in this sector.
in writing. - i voted in favour of a resolution on the food crisis, fraud in the food chain and its control. despite transparency being one of the key elements of the food safety control concept of the european commission and the member states, fraud in the food sector is frequently reported. example: the horse scandal, sold as beef. this is usually because the potential financial benefits of fraud are high and the risk of getting caught is low. such actions not only undermine consumer confidence in the food chain but also have a direct negative impact on the food sector. the agri-food sector is one of the largest economic sectors in the eu, employing some 48 million people and generating a turnover of €715 billion a year. the commission must take all necessary measures to prevent fraud and the control authorities must cooperate better at international level.
in writing. - i voted for this motion. in fact, several recent food-related scandals have damaged consumer confidence in the eu's ability to control food fraud. despite the eu's strong focus on food safety, there is still a lack of clear regulation on food fraud. the eu has so far only a general requirement that labelling, advertising, presentation and packaging must not mislead consumers, although the practical application of this provision varies widely from country to country and the number of controls in this area is very limited. for this reason, fraud in the food sector is not usually detected, especially if there are no consequences for public health or food safety. i agree that the situation needs to change, in particular by defining the concept of food fraud, by strengthening the role and resources of the food and veterinary office, by improving cooperation between the member states and europol and by increasing the penalties for fraud.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it is the european parliament's study of the problem of food fraud, the factors that influence its occurrence and possible solutions. in recent years, the problem of food fraud has received increasing attention due to cases of unfair food labelling and other food fraud. examples such as the use of road salt in food, the marketing of conventional eggs as organic and the recent horse scandal show that this can be a continuing or structural problem. among other things, this also has a negative impact on consumer confidence in the food chain, creating a very paradoxical situation: food is safer than ever before, but consumer confidence is low.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal as the problem of food fraud is gaining attention due to cases of unfair food labelling and other food fraud affecting the eu food chain, such as the use of road salt in food, the marketing of conventional eggs as organic and the recent horse scandal. these cases of food fraud have already had a negative impact on consumer confidence in the food chain. the eu has so far only a general requirement that labelling, advertising, presentation and packaging must not mislead consumers, although the practical application of this provision varies widely from one country to another and the number of control measures in this area is very limited. therefore, fraud in the food sector is not usually detected, especially if there are no consequences for public health or food safety. this also makes it very difficult to establish the actual extent of food fraud in the european union. the situation needs to be changed, in particular by defining the concept of food fraud, by strengthening the role and resources of the food and veterinary services, by improving cooperation between member states and by increasing the penalties for such fraud.
in writing. − one of the key principles of eu food safety policy is the control of consumer safety, proper information and traceability of products. indeed, recent developments show that it is not always possible to ensure that the end-user receives what he or she reads on the label. i therefore support the strengthening of the control system and better coordination of such controls and call on the commission to speed up the adoption of measures to allow for closer cooperation between the competent authorities of the member states in preventing such fraud.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. i believe that the prevention of food fraud must be an integral part of eu policy, as such fraud has had a negative impact on consumer confidence in the food chain. in order to ensure adequate consumer protection and to restore consumer confidence in the common food market, consumers need to know where the food they buy comes from. in order to combat this fraud, more attention should be paid to better traceability of ingredients and products throughout the food chain. it is necessary to provide for stricter controls on imports from third countries. i think that a special group should be set up to investigate such fraud cases, to carry out unannounced inspections. the development of private sector anti-fraud programmes must be encouraged across the eu. it should be noted that the economic benefits of fraud are further enhanced by the relatively low fines and the wide variations in the procedures in force in the member states, as well as by the strict austerity measures. therefore, in order to facilitate the effective fight against fraud in the food supply chain, a clear, legally valid, eu-wide definition of food fraud is necessary.
in writing. - i voted for this motion. the eu is increasingly confronted with undeclared work and the shadow economy. in the eu-27, undeclared work accounts for 18.8% of total gdp, and in some countries it is even above 30%. at present, labour inspectorates in many member states are facing difficulties in combating undeclared work by all means, as the savings in labour inspectorates have led to a reduction in funding. one of the main problems for labour inspectorates is cross-border labour relations. it is difficult for national authorities to obtain relevant information from the authorities of the country of origin and to understand the employment relationship. i support the commission's initiative to create a platform for european labour inspectors to help exchange good practice, to introduce a european social security card with all the necessary data, such as working hours and social security, which would allow labour inspectors to have all the necessary information immediately. i doubt the need for a separate eu agency. i think that this is an excessive proposal and it would be appropriate to strengthen the role of labour inspectorates by the means mentioned above.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it is the european parliament's way of drawing attention to the role of labour inspection systems in combating undeclared work in the european union. this is important because the economic and social changes of recent decades have had a major impact on the labour market. the globalisation of the world economy has had a negative impact on traditional safe and fair labour relations. subcontracting, contract work, low job security, work intensity and job insecurity are all damaging the quality of jobs in europe. this erosion of labour relations is accompanied by a lack of respect for labour law and workers' rights. meanwhile, labour inspectorates in many member states are currently facing difficulties in combating undeclared work in any way possible, as their funding has been reduced as a result of budgetary savings. this should be brought to the attention of the member states.
in writing. − i supported the need to review the role of labour inspection systems in combating undeclared work in the european union, the problems they face and to provide policy recommendations on how to tackle undeclared work and help inspections work more effectively. the eu is increasingly confronted with undeclared work and the shadow economy. in the eu-27, undeclared work accounts for 18.8% of total gdp, and in some countries it is even more than 30%. at present, labour inspectorates in many member states are facing difficulties in combating undeclared work by all means, as the savings in labour inspectorates have led to a reduction in funding. one of the main problems for labour inspectorates is cross-border labour relations. it is difficult for national authorities to obtain relevant information from the authorities of the country of origin and to understand the employment relationship. it is proposed to introduce a european social security card, which would record all the necessary data, such as working hours and social security. this would enable the labour inspector to review all the necessary data immediately. sweden has already introduced such a card in the construction sector. the inspectors receive detectors that allow them to read the information on the cards very quickly and easily. in january 2013, luxembourg introduced a similar scheme.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. it is worth noting that undeclared work, the shadow economy, labour law and the lack of respect for workers' rights in the eu have damaging consequences for the whole economy, society and businesses. it is therefore essential to give high priority to the role of labour inspection systems in combating undeclared work in the eu. it is necessary to establish guidelines for cross-border cooperation between national authorities and for new legal initiatives. the regulation of new forms of work and non-standard work by establishing a clear and binding definition of worker at eu level is another effective means of combating fictitious self-employment. i believe that labour inspections should cover all categories of workers, with particular attention to the protection of exploited workers. in addition, innovative systems for cooperation with other public authorities and systems for the registration of mobile workers should be established. it is noted that there is no enforcement of the social anti-dumping rules at eu level. i support the proposal to set up a european agency to deal with all types of crossborder issues, and it is also appropriate to introduce the european social security card.
in writing. - i voted for this motion. employee financial participation (efp) in company management is not a popular measure in eu companies, although it does involve employees more in the decision-making process in the companies where they work, helps to strengthen good governance and ensures the sharing of the benefits of a financially successful company. it is much more popular in the us, but in the eu it is difficult to implement due to the disparity in tax incentives, as well as the lack of regulatory incentives and clear practical implementation guidelines. i agree that this measure could be further developed and applied in the eu, especially by small and medium-sized enterprises, which would encourage their development. the eu should provide a framework concept and common guidelines on key principles and best practices to inform national and company-level decision-making on dfd systems.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it seeks to highlight the positive role that employee financial participation systems can play in developing employee participation in the management and in contributing to the success of the financial undertakings in which they work. the strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth europe 2020 highlights the need for inclusive growth, which empowers citizens through, inter alia, employment, investment in skills, the fight against poverty and the modernisation of labour markets and social protection. employee financial participation (efp) is a concrete tool for developing these issues, involving employees more closely in the decision-making process in the companies where they work, helping to strengthen good governance and ensure the sharing of the financial benefits of a successful company. employee financial participation through innovative financing mechanisms can also strengthen smes, encourage employees to invest in the shares of the company where they work and, at the same time, capitalise on growth. developing long-term employee investment in one's own company can also provide stability and certainty, strengthening smes and protecting jobs.
in writing. - i voted for this statement. employee financial participation is an effective tool to increase employee involvement in decision-making and to develop new forms of corporate financing. the measure also contributes to strengthening good governance and ensuring the sharing of the benefits of a financially successful company. although the benefits of financial employee involvement are clear, participation in the implementation of the measure is still low. this requires greater emphasis on the positive role of the system in developing employee participation in the management and in contributing to the success of the financial undertakings in which they work. the measure should also be sustainable in the long term and based on the principle of voluntary participation. i believe that the commission should provide a framework for this system and common guidelines on the basic principles and best practices that would apply across the eu. in addition, guidelines should be established to help businesses, workers, social partners and national authorities to better design and implement this measure.
in writing. - i voted for this motion. europe has always been characterised by a high level of social protection and is an integral part of the european social model. however, the ongoing crisis has also affected this sector, with cuts in social benefits and a reduction in the number of people on social assistance. the economic and financial crisis has brought a number of changes and is forcing us to look for new ways of increasing employment while maintaining the stability and sustainability of social protection systems. people who are out of work or have lost their jobs should be encouraged to take up new forms of work, such as self-employment, which provides greater flexibility. however, in promoting self-sufficiency, we must ensure the social protection of the people involved, particularly in terms of protection against disability and old age, maternity and paternity, unemployment, access to healthcare services, which would allow the people involved to feel secure and encourage this very important form of employment.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report, which focuses on the social protection of the selfemployed, because there is a risk that, as the nature of employment changes and situations become more frequent, new groups of workers are not and will not be adequately protected. more than 30 million people are selfemployed in the european union, or about 15% of all those in employment. most people become self-employed because they cannot find another job or because they cannot find flexible working conditions. unfortunately, we do not have a uniform and universally accepted situation in the european union, which raises a number of problems in relation to the labour rights and social protection of self-employed persons. for example, in many countries, self-employed persons are only partially involved in the pension system, and as a result, they are at high risk of poverty in old age (low contributions mean low pensions). the same applies to invalidity pensions. self-employed persons are also less protected in the case of maternity/paternity. even fewer selfemployed persons are protected in the event of unemployment. in my report, i therefore urge member states to ensure that the situation is not used as a means of preventing workers from benefiting from social and labour guarantees or as a means for employers to circumvent labour and social security law. i also propose that member states provide all citizens who want to work for themselves with information on their rights in relation to social protection.
in writing. − i supported the need to review social protection systems in the eu and to ensure social protection for all, including the self-employed. social protection is the cornerstone of the european social model, with the main function of promoting social inclusion, social justice and ensuring income and access to quality education and health care for all. the situation has been rapidly expanding and taking on new forms, but there is no universally accepted definition of the situation in the eu. the situation must be recognised as a form of work that helps to create jobs and reduce unemployment. member states must develop social protection in the event of old age, disability, maternity (fatherhood) and unemployment in order to make it more appropriate to the needs of the self-employed and to bring it up to the standard of the wage-earning population. the commission and the member states should link social protection and related rights not to an employment contract but to a person, thus ensuring adequate social protection for all, including self-employed persons and employees, regardless of their contract type or employment status.
in writing. − the european union is facing unemployment problems. one way to reduce unemployment and dependence on social benefits is through self-employment (individual activity, situation). although many professionals in different fields work in this way, they very often face a lack of social protection. although social protection has traditionally been a member state competence, i believe that it is necessary to promote cooperation and the dissemination of good practice in this field between member states and to seek a standard that ensures an adequate level of social protection. this will protect the social interests of those who take up individual activities, while encouraging them to take up individual activities and thus contribute to reducing unemployment.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to analyse the readiness of the member states for the next phase of cohesion policy funding. in the current economic climate, national, local and regional budgets are increasingly burdened. thus, for many member states and regions, cohesion policy funding is becoming increasingly important. it is therefore necessary that member states and regions take the necessary steps to draw up partnership agreements and action programmes in an efficient and timely manner so that funding can be mobilised as soon as possible. member states are at very different stages of preparation for the next programming period. however, many of them are making efforts to analyse what has worked and what has not in the 2007-2013 programme in order to develop new strategies to ensure the effective use of cohesion policy funds. i support the proposals put forward to give greater emphasis to the involvement of local and regional authorities and to give the regions greater flexibility in setting priorities in accordance with their territorial needs.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it provides parliament with an overview of the eu member states' readiness to start the new programming period for cohesion policy in an effective and timely manner. in the current economic climate, national, local and regional budgets are increasingly burdened and, as a result, cohesion policy funding is becoming increasingly important for many member states and regions. this highlights the increased need to ensure that money is spent efficiently so that citizens can enjoy all the benefits of european funding. in this context, it is essential that member states and regions take the necessary steps to prepare partnership agreements and action programmes in an efficient and timely manner, so that funding can be mobilised as soon as possible once agreement is reached on the common provisions regulation. the communication notes that member states have reached very different stages of preparation for the next programming period, partly for objective reasons, such as member states making certain changes in their preparation for the next programming period compared to the previous funding stage, such as structural changes to the operational programmes; new administrative structures are in place; discussions are underway on focusing thematically on several specific objectives.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal to analyse the readiness of the member states for the next phase of funding of cohesion policy. the aim is to conclude as soon as possible the negotiations on the cohesion policy legislative package, the partnership agreements and the action programmes. two thirds of the outstanding commitments accumulated at the end of the 2007-2013 mff relate to the financing of cohesion policy, and the aim is to find a credible solution to reduce the risk of the implementation of eu programmes being blocked by late payments. i also agree with the need to focus more on the involvement of local and regional authorities, giving the regions more flexibility in setting priorities according to their territorial needs.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. in order to ensure an effective and timely start to the new programming period of the fp, it is important that member states and regions take the necessary steps to prepare partnership agreements and operational programmes in an effective and timely manner. the implementation of these measures would further reduce existing disparities between eu regions, promote growth and strengthen economic, social and territorial cohesion. it should be noted that the principle of multi-level governance is essential to ensure the effective management of the new cohesion policy. for many member states and regions, cohesion policy funding is becoming increasingly important. to achieve a greater impact of eu assistance, it is therefore necessary to adopt an integrated approach and to coordinate the various sources of funding available, as well as to ensure policy and regulatory coherence. in addition, the management of union funds, access to support procedures, procurement rules and the supervision procedure should be simplified in order to increase transparency. clear and accessible information on the beneficiaries of funds and funding opportunities must be made available to all interested parties. we must ensure that money is spent efficiently and that citizens can enjoy all the benefits of european funding.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on plastic waste in the environment. the european plastics industry has an annual turnover of around eur 300 billion and employs 1.54 million people, but the data on waste from this industry is still not consolidated and ranges from 25 million tonnes of waste (european commission data in 2008) to 13 million tonnes (european environment agency data in 2010). in this context, we call for the elimination of the most hazardous plastic materials from the market by 2020 and for a reduction in the use of plastic bags. i believe that the plastic waste in the environment has a direct negative impact on both human health and the environment itself. the world is accumulating huge amounts of plastic that have been around for centuries and are damaging the environment. in addition, the eu has no specific rules for plastic waste and common waste legislation is poorly implemented in eu countries. it is therefore essential that at least 80% of plastic waste is collected and sorted. it should be noted that the economic potential of recycling plastics is not fully exploited, i.e. only a quarter of plastic waste is recycled.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to establish a european strategy to reduce plastic waste in the environment. in 2010, some 95 billion plastic bags were placed on the market in the european union. today, the eu plastics industry employs 1.6 million people and global plastics production could triple by 2050. however, data on waste from this industry are still not precise and uniform from 25 million tonnes of waste to 13 million tonnes. in the absence of reliable and comparable data on the production, collection, sorting, recycling, energy use and disposal of plastics, it is difficult to develop targeted and effective policies, in particular actions, against illicit waste streams. the proposal aims to remove the most hazardous plastics from the market by 2020 and to reduce the use of plastic bags. also reduce the use of single-use, non-recyclable, non-biodegradable and non-compostable plastic bags and ensure that no waste is sent to landfill that can be recycled and reused by 2020. i support the proposals put forward to provide for rules that would allow the characteristics of products placed on the market to be clearly defined: consumers need to know whether the plastic they buy is recycled, compostable, biodegradable or recyclable to facilitate sorting. it is also important to raise public awareness through public information campaigns.
in writing. − i voted for this report because it is a way for parliament to draw attention to the problems of plastic waste in the environment. the european plastics industry has an annual turnover of around eur 300 billion and employs 1,54 million people, but data on waste from this industry are still not consolidated and properly assessed. in the absence of reliable and comparable data on the production, collection, sorting, recycling, energy use and disposal of plastics, it is difficult to develop targeted and effective policies, in particular actions, against illicit waste streams. clearly, the environmental impact of plastics is still underestimated. in this report, parliament also calls for eu legislation to regulate the management and recycling of plastic waste, to provide for relevant targets and to set stricter implementation of existing rules. currently, 40% of waste is made up of packaging, although the only eu legislation currently in force since 1994 stipulates that only 22.5% of plastic must be collected. updates and additions to the legislation are therefore necessary.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal as it proposes to remove the most hazardous plastics from the market by 2020 and to reduce the use of plastic bags, to reduce the use of single-use, non-recyclable, non-biodegradable and non-compostable plastic bags, and to ensure that no waste is sent to landfills by 2020 that can be recycled and reused. i agree that more efforts are needed to ensure transparency of information, to clearly define the characteristics of products placed on the market: consumers need to know whether the plastic they buy is recycled, compostable, biodegradable or recyclable to facilitate sorting. it is important to raise public awareness through public information campaigns to reduce the amount of plastic in the environment.
in writing. - plastic waste one of the longest-lived in the environment. we need to take action as soon as possible, both to reduce their production and to increase reuse and recycling. this requires not only a review of existing eu legislation but also the effective functioning of plastic waste collection systems in the member states. in supporting this resolution, i therefore call on the commission to take more stringent measures to monitor and ensure the proper functioning of member states' plastic waste collection systems.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to establish regional quality labels. regional quality labels indicate that products and services belong to a specific single region in which those products are produced. they are important for the regions concerned and for the rural economy, and promote sustainable tourism development and help to increase the competitiveness of the regions. i support the proposals made to continue to organise cooperation and partnerships between all the actors concerned in the development of regional quality labels. it is also important to establish common conditions for the award of the label and criteria with which the apartments are accompanied by tailor-made programmes (financing, training, etc.) in order to provide the necessary incentives for local authorities and businesses to implement them effectively.
in writing. − i voted for this report because it highlights the growing importance of rural development policy. the report notes that the urban/rural divide is increasingly blurred and that suburban agriculture is becoming more popular. it is therefore important that regional policy, as an annex to rural development policy, also covers rural areas in order to support innovative and structural projects in these areas. the communication also highlights that the rural development programming period 2014-2020 will offer member states a wider range of measures, such as support for the production of quality food, support for cooperation between territorial entities to exploit all the resources of quality goods and services, strengthening of producer organisations, and encouraging innovation and economic diversification in rural areas.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. regional quality labels are of particular importance for the regions concerned and for the rural economy. these signs promote sustainable tourism development and help to increase the competitiveness of regions. they are also a comprehensive tool used to better involve operators, organise their activities and bring products to market. it is important to note that these signs not only promote the economic development of productive regions, but also improve the competitiveness and attractiveness of rural areas. it is therefore essential that adequate funding is provided for its establishment. cooperation and partnerships between all actors concerned should be continuously promoted in order to develop and promote regional quality labels. regional quality labels should provide essential information on local and regional identity. they would also contribute to the preservation, transmission and promotion of local and regional traditions, history and regional characteristics. in order to help maintain the image of europe as a destination for high-quality tourism, common conditions and criteria for the award of the label should apply. local authorities and enterprises should be given the necessary incentives and support to implement the programmes effectively.
draft opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy. − first of all, i would like to congratulate my colleague, mr marco tarabella, on the great work he has done in the imco committee and in the negotiations with the council to preserve the principled aspects of public procurement endorsed by the itre committee. with regard specifically to the directive on the procurement by entities operating in the water, energy, transport and postal services sectors, it should be noted that the separate regulation of the provision of municipal services has been maintained. these sectors still have a high degree of market concentration and low level of competition and, therefore, given the importance of these public services, it is appropriate to apply specific rules that reflect the specific nature of these services and ensure the conditions for the provision of high quality social services. the revision of these directives has provided a new and fairer framework for more transparent procurement procedures in the future. one of the most important achievements could be the promotion of electronic public procurement. the proposal already provides for the mandatory transmission of notices and the availability of procurement documents in electronic form and an obligation for member states to move to full electronic correspondence within two years. i believe that in the future all public procurement must be moved to the digital space, which will allow for transparent and more efficient public procurement systems in the member states. the european parliament has expressed a clear commitment to reform and amend the public procurement rules, and the commission will therefore have a special task in monitoring the way in which member states transpose and implement the provisions of these directives in the future.
madam president, we fully acknowledge that there is an increasing mismatch between the legal openness of the eu’s public procurement markets, the eu’s ambitions and interests in this area and, on the other hand, restrictive practices by major trading partners. the eu’s on-going efforts to open up public procurement markets for eu companies in third countries are to be welcomed, and that is exactly what the commission is trying to do. the commission’s proposal aims to create a new instrument which seeks to redress the lack of leverage in the eu’s international trade negotiations and to gain substantial market access commitments for the benefit of eu business. the amended proposal, suggested by our rapporteur daniel caspary and voted in the committee on international trade (inta), is a further step in improving the original text of the commission, which gives the commission a major role in determining the exclusion of foreign bidders and introducing more legal certainties. at the same time, the amended proposal is a real alternative to the original one. i will vote in favour of the amended proposal and i suggest to my colleagues that they also support it.
i would also like to congratulate my colleague, monica macovei, on her really good work on the hercule iii programme for the next seven years. but i would like to mention very briefly that we have actually been using this programme for 10 years, and not all countries are taking full advantage of the opportunities that are trying to be absorbed or take advantage of the opportunities of this programme. i mean even lithuania itself, that not all lithuanian politicians know that such a program exists. and in the baltic states in particular, cigarette smuggling is very evident in some of our regions up to 40% of the cigarettes used are contraband. and i think the commissioner knows this very well, which is why i am proposing that in future this programme be promoted more and even coordinated, as my colleague mr liberadzki has said, so that the same equipment is purchased in each region, so that it is not possible to go around the borders, etc.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it replaces the powers and responsibilities of the committees set out in parliament's rules of procedure, taking account of the changes brought about by the treaty of lisbon. these amendments aim to clarify and narrow the powers of parliamentary committees and to eliminate any duplication of powers. the proposed changes include the transfer of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs to deal with the establishment and operation of the eppo, the more explicit assignment of the union's foreign policy coordination to the committee on foreign affairs, and the further strengthening of the role of the internal market committee in the implementation of the internal market and consumer rights. the amendments shall enter into force at the beginning of the next parliamentary term.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to replace the programme prevention, preparedness and response to terrorism and other security-related risks (cips) with the national security fund. the current cips special programme is set for the period 2007-2013. it aims at preventing, preparing for and protecting persons and critical infrastructure against terrorist acts and other security incidents. the programme will be replaced by the internal security fund for the period 2014-2020.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it supports the abolition of the programme 'prevention, preparedness and consequence management of terrorism and other security related risks' which was in force from 2007 to 2013. it was designed to prevent, prepare for and protect persons and critical infrastructure against terrorist acts and other security incidents. the programme will be replaced by the internal security fund (isf police measure) for the period 2014-2020. given that the cips special programme was adopted on the basis of a dual legal basis (ec, euratom), its abolition requires a separate legal act.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal to change the programme 'prevention, preparedness and consequence management of terrorism and other security-related risks' to 'the internal security fund'. the current specific programme 'prevention, preparedness and consequence management of terrorism and other security related risks' (cips) covers the period 2007-2013. it aims at preventing, preparing for and protecting persons and critical infrastructure against terrorist acts and other security incidents. for the period 2014-2020, this programme will be replaced by the 'internal security fund'. given that the cips was approved on the basis of a dual legal basis (ec, euratom), its repeal requires a separate legal act.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to renew the eu-russia agreement on scientific and technological cooperation for five years. science and technology is one of the sectors in which the eu and russia cooperate most dynamically, given their common interests in promoting innovation and economic competitiveness. the legal framework for cooperation is set out in the eu-russia agreement on scientific and technological cooperation, which was concluded in 2000 and renewed for five years in 2009. this decision renews the agreement for a further period of five years. the content of the renewed agreement would remain identical to that of the agreement which expired on 20 february 2014.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it expresses parliament's support for the renewal of the eu-russia agreement on scientific and technological cooperation for another five years. this eu-russia agreement, which is renewed every five years, was first concluded in 2000. intensive cooperation in research and technological development, including a large number of joint projects and other cooperation actions, is a crucial element of the eu-russia strategic partnership, contributing to the objectives of the partnership for modernisation. the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation is also important in the context of the ongoing negotiations on an eu-russia visa facilitation agreement. visa facilitation could have a positive impact on research and academic mobility and facilitate the effective implementation of the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation, as well as contributing to the broader objective of strengthening political, economic and cultural links between the eu and russia.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal to renew the eu-russia agreement on scientific and technological cooperation for five years, as science and technology is one of the sectors in which the eu and russia cooperate most dynamically, in the light of the common interest in promoting innovation and economic competitiveness. the legal framework for cooperation is set out in the eu-russia agreement on scientific and technological cooperation, which was concluded in 2000 and renewed for five years in 2009. this decision renews the agreement for a further period of five years. the content of the renewed agreement would remain identical to that of the agreement which expires on 20 february 2014.
in writing. − in 2000, an eu-russia agreement on scientific and technological cooperation was concluded, which was to be renewed every five years. the agreement has been renewed twice so far. the european parliament has therefore decided to extend the agreement for a further five years, considering that the scientific and technological field is one of the most intensive areas of bilateral cooperation between the eu and russia. i hope that this agreement will contribute, above all, to russia's efforts to move closer to international and european standards in the fields of environment and nuclear safety, and to cooperate in the search for scientific and technological solutions to problems that have an impact on the eu.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it gives parliament its support for the new version of the regulation on the denominations and technical specifications of euro coins intended for circulation. in 1987, the commission decided that all acts which had been amended no more than ten times should be codified, and stressed that this requirement was minimal and that the commission departments should endeavour to produce codified versions of the texts for which they were responsible within a shorter timeframe in order to ensure that their provisions were clear and easily understandable. the commission initiated this proposal for codification, however, in the legislative process the european central bank (ecb), in its opinion on the proposal for codification, recommended incorporating actual amendments to the technical specifications. since the proposals to amend the annex would indeed imply the need to make substantial changes, and would therefore go beyond the limits of simple codification, it was decided that the codified version of the regulation should be replaced by the new wording.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal because, in the opinion of the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission, the proposal does not contain any substantive changes other than those mentioned and because, as regards the codification of the unchanged provisions of the earlier acts and of the amendments mentioned, the proposal seeks only to codify the existing texts without changing their substance.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. the association of southeast asian nations (asean) is now one of the strongest regional organizations in the world, both in terms of economic development and geopolitical dynamics. promoting prosperity, cooperation and peace is a key political objective of eu-asean cooperation, and trade issues are the main focus of this relationship. i agree with the rapporteur that while trade and investment are very important, cooperation must also cover areas such as human rights and the environment. in other words, asean member states need to focus more on human, social, labour and economic rights.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to strengthen the eu's relations with asean. asean is the association of southeast asian nations, established by the 1967 bangkok agreement. it is a political, economic, and cultural union of countries that includes the philippines, indonesia, malaysia, singapore, thailand, brunei, vietnam, laos, myanmar, and cambodia. asean's purchasing power and economic size are already on par with china's, and it is therefore essential to develop stronger economic ties with it, combined with a more appropriate social, political and institutional framework. it is very important that the eu negotiates seven partnership and cooperation agreements between the eu and individual asean member states. the establishment of a formal european-asean parliamentary assembly would further improve relations between eu and asean member states. i support the proposals set out to encourage national and foreign companies operating in asean countries to adhere to the core labour standards of the ilo and the un basic principles on business and human rights. i also agree that the eu should provide more aid and cooperate more in the fight against corruption.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it is a way of drawing attention to the need to strengthen relations between the eu and the association of southeast asian nations (asean), which are often unduly relegated to the background by the eu's relations with china, japan and india. this situation persists despite the fact that asean's purchasing power and economic size are already equal to china's purchasing power and economic size and despite the fact that asean's political influence is increasing. the eu and asean share many similarities, which open up many opportunities for interaction and mutual learning. the report examines how stronger economic links could be combined with a more appropriate social, political and institutional framework and relationships. it also sets out how bilateral relations between the regions could be improved. the evaluations and recommendations are presented in the context of the ongoing process of ambitious intra-asean integration, new political forces and the challenges of democracy.
in writing. - i voted in favour because the report seeks to give due weight to eu-asean relations, which are being pushed into the background by the eu's relations with china, japan and india. asean is the association of southeast asian nations, established by the 1967 bangkok treaty. it is a political, economic, and cultural union of these countries, including the philippines, indonesia, malaysia, singapore, thailand, brunei, vietnam, laos, myanmar, and cambodia. asean's purchasing power and economic size are already matching china's purchasing power and economy, and asean's political influence is growing. the eu is also looking at ways of combining stronger economic ties with a more appropriate social, political and institutional framework and opportunities for the eu to contribute more to the asean integration process. the commission has also received comments from the goc and the goc's representatives on the implementation of the wto agreement on trade-related aspects of intellectual property rights (trips) and the wto agreement on trade-related aspects of intellectual property rights (trips). i welcome the negotiation of seven partnership and cooperation agreements between the eu and individual asean member states. the parliamentary dimension of the relationship needs to be strengthened. the establishment of a formal european-asean parliamentary assembly would further improve relations between eu and asean member states. i think the eu should provide more aid and cooperate more in the fight against corruption.
in writing. − asean is an emerging international political and economic actor. the asean economic community aims to create an internal market of 600 million people by 2015, on par with other major world markets. the rapidly developing asean countries, which have been relatively successful in coping with the global economic crisis, face a variety of challenges, including the consequences of extreme natural disasters, high levels of air pollution, which can become an unconventional security problem. i believe that rapid economic growth must reach all segments of society, and that a strong focus on poverty reduction and improving the situation of the most vulnerable segments of society is necessary. as the eu and asean share common interests and a common political objective to promote prosperity, cooperation and peace in their respective regions and throughout the world, parliament calls for closer cooperation with the organisation and for a more comprehensive framework for political and economic cooperation with asean.
in writing. − i voted against the proposal to reject the council's position adopted at first reading. the council supports the objective of achieving better implementation of the social rules relating to road transport and reducing administrative burdens by making full use of new technologies and new regulatory instruments. tachographs are used in road transport to monitor compliance with driving and resting time rules in order to ensure road safety, appropriate working conditions for drivers and fair competition between transport undertakings. i support the proposals for the introduction of smart tachographs, which would help to reduce the administrative burden associated with the obligations imposed on transport undertakings using the tachograph. the smart tachograph will have two new functions: a remote communication function for control and a location data recording function. at the same time, it is necessary to provide for enhanced data protection and privacy guarantees.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it gives parliament its support for the regulation replacing previously adopted eu legislation in the field of road safety. tachographs are used in road transport to monitor compliance with driving and resting time rules in order to ensure road safety, appropriate working conditions for drivers and fair competition between transport undertakings. the proposed regulation, which will replace the current regulation adopted in 1985, aims to make fraud more difficult, to improve the implementation of social rules and to reduce administrative burdens by making full use of new technologies and introducing certain new regulatory measures. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of electronic data-processing techniques, such as the use of electronic data-processing machines, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of electronic data-processing techniques.
in writing. − smart tachographs will help to improve the implementation of legislation and reduce administrative burden. therefore, in order to prevent fraud and to improve the implementation of social rules, it is necessary to ensure that the tachograph is effective and accessible to all interested parties. the free access to intellectual property rights should be open to all, and the control mechanism should be strengthened. in order to ensure road safety, appropriate working conditions for drivers and fair competition between transport undertakings, it is appropriate to extend the functionality of tachographs. i support the proposal to gradually introduce such innovative tachographs with the aim that, 15 years after the smart tachograph has been placed on the market, it should be installed in all vehicles. it should be noted that these tachographs will allow the vehicle's speed and position to be recorded using satellite navigation systems and will enable the real-time transmission of this data to control authorities so that they can control the vehicles from a distance. the new tachographs would also record the weight of the car by being linked to the sensors that record it.
in writing. - i voted for this motion. public procurement accounts for a very large proportion of economic activity in the eu. public procurement and concessions are the most common forms of public procurement. concessions are a very important area, since infrastructure projects are financed with private capital and state resources. there are very clear rules on public procurement. however, works concessions are subject only to certain public procurement provisions, while services concessions are subject only to the general principles of the treaty and to a large number of separate national laws, which creates legal uncertainty and complicated regulation of concessions. i agree that clear principles and rules on works and service concessions need to be established at eu level to help public authorities wishing to take advantage of additional means to develop and modernise public services. this would enhance competition within the eu. increasing the transparency of procedures would thus allow for a more effective fight against favouritism in the award of public contracts and for the purpose of ensuring an effective, consistent and pragmatic legal framework.
in writing. − i voted for this report because it is the first time that parliament has supported the regulation of concessions at eu level. public procurement accounts for a very large proportion of economic activity in the eu. public procurement and concessions are the most common forms of public procurement. public procurement is governed by very clear rules, whereas works concessions are governed by the main provisions of the existing directives on public procurement and service concessions by the general principles of the treaty and a wealth of case law. the advantage of the legislation on concessions is that it clarifies the current legal framework in relation to the ecj case-law and enhances legal stability and certainty in the light of legal differences in the eu regarding the non-application of uniform treaty principles. clear rules on works and service concessions will help public authorities wishing to have additional means to develop and modernise public services. this will enhance competition within the eu. finally, greater transparency in procedures will make it possible to combat favouritism in public procurement more effectively.
in writing. − i supported the proposal because a legislative initiative at eu level on concessions is necessary. the lack of legal certainty, the continuous conclusion of contracts under private law, the fundamental principles on which the eu internal market was founded, and the legal differences between the various member states in this area are reasons why a legal framework should be established at european level. however, this system must not be a substitute for a 'lighter' approach, which sets clear, consistent, understandable and effective rules.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the amendment of the public procurement rules. it is important to note that public sector spending on goods, services and works accounts for around 19% of the eu's gross domestic product (gdp). i support this reform in the hope that public procurement tenders will be more transparent and that the administrative burden on small and medium-sized enterprises will be reduced. the current 'minimum price dictatorship' has been replaced by the 'minimum price dictatorship' under the public procurement reform, but the need for quality assurance has arisen. in other words, contracting authorities will have to take account not only of the price of the bid but also of the economic, environmental and social benefits. it is also important that the new procurement rules restrict the participation of companies that have violated labour laws. they also provide for the possibility for contracting entities to require suppliers to disclose subcontractors in advance. the directives also allow for the rejection of tenders from suppliers who have poorly performed previous contracts. i also voted in favour of this resolution because experts estimate that the implementation of the reform will reduce the administrative burden on companies participating in public procurement by up to 80%.
in writing. - i voted for this motion. public procurement in the eu represents a relatively large part of the economy, about 19% of the union's gdp, and it is therefore necessary to establish clear and transparent procurement principles at eu level and to maximise the potential of public procurement. the new version of the directive introduces certain innovations aimed at ensuring efficient and socially sustainable procurement procedures, such as the exclusion of any economic operator from participation in a procurement procedure who has not fulfilled the obligations under social, labour and environmental law laid down in national and eu legislation and in collective agreements concluded in compliance with union law. contracting authorities will not be able to award the contract to the highest bidder if the economic operator is unable to provide up-to-date information on the payment of social security contributions. the concept of the lowest price is removed from the directive and replaced by the concept of the most economically advantageous tender. this will allow the most economically advantageous tender to be identified, taking into account both the price and the tender best suited to the specific needs of the contracting authority. the new rules will also benefit smes, which will have more opportunities to participate in public procurement on a subcontracting basis, allowing them to become more active at eu level.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it supports the modernisation of the current public procurement directives. the aim of this legislation is to strike a balance between simplified public procurement rules and sound and efficient procedures based on innovation and sustainability criteria for the award of contracts, while ensuring greater participation by smes and procurement procedures conducted online. public procurement represents a relatively large part of the economy (around 19% of union gdp), and the successful revision and implementation of the rules on the organisation of public procurement will make a significant contribution to the recovery of investment in the real economy and to overcoming the crisis in europe.
in writing. − i supported the proposal as the reformed eu public procurement rules package will allow the public sector to choose not only the cheapest bid when purchasing goods or services, but to assess its overall economic, environmental and social viability. public authorities spend up to 19% of the eu's gross domestic product on public procurement, making it an important tool for achieving certain public objectives. the preliminary agreement reached with the eu council in july 2013 on three public procurement directives (the 'classical directive', the 'utilities directive' and the 'concessions directive') will allow public authorities to assess the environmental and social benefits and costs of the proposals. for example, a customer may want to ensure that a nursery or hospital is supplied with high-quality food and that the supplier employs people with disabilities. the new rules will also reduce administrative burdens, facilitate participation of small enterprises in public procurement and strengthen the rules on the examination of abnormally low-priced tenders and the transparency of subcontractors in order to ensure compliance with labour laws and collective agreements. in view of the importance of water as a public good, the concession directive will not apply to this sector. the new rules on international public procurement will aim to open up foreign procurement markets to eu companies, while giving foreign companies access to the eu's analogue market.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. i was the shadow rapporteur on this matter in the committee on industry, research and energy. the new version of the directive clarifies the basic definitions in the light of the relevant case law of the european court of justice, such as the concept of procurement, a public entity, etc., removes the traditional distinction between priority and non-priority services, and provides for the possibility of choosing the form of procedures, the use of an innovative procurement form in certain cases, and the use of a six-way procurement technique, which will allow contracting entities to carry out e-procurement more easily. one of the most important achievements in the modernisation of public procurement is, in my view, the promotion of electronic procurement. the introduction of mandatory electronic procurement systems will lead to considerable savings, improve procurement outcomes and provide all stakeholders, in particular smes, with much more transparent access to public procurement not only in their own member states but also in other member states. the proposal already provides for the mandatory transmission of notices in electronic form, the mandatory availability of procurement documents in electronic form and a transitional period of two years for member states to switch to fully electronic correspondence, in particular e-tendering, in all procurement procedures.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document because it is necessary to modernise the public procurement directives, but this would require a balance between simplifying the rules on the one hand and fair and efficient procedures based on award criteria linked to innovation and sustainability on the other, as well as ensuring greater participation by smes and generalising public procurement online. efforts should be made to exploit the full potential of public procurement in the single market to promote sustainable growth, job creation and social inclusion. given that public procurement represents a significant part of the economy (around 19% of union gdp), the reform and successful implementation of procurement rules would make a significant contribution to the resumption of investment in the real economy and to overcoming the european economic crisis.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on access to the public procurement markets for goods and services. the eu's main external trade partners are the united states, canada, japan, india and china. until now, the eu public procurement market has been fully open to them. at the same time, europeans faced various artificial obstacles when they wanted to participate in their public procurement tenders. we encourage other countries to open their procurement markets to our business. the european commission will have the right to exclude from european competitions those countries which are acting unfairly towards the european union.
in writing. − i voted in favour of postponing the vote on this proposal in order to agree a tripartite agreement. this proposal aims to strengthen the eu's negotiating position on access for eu companies to third country procurement markets and to clarify the legal position of foreign tenderers, goods and services on the eu procurement market. this proposal establishes a comprehensive eu external procurement policy governing access to the eu procurement market for foreign goods and services and provides mechanisms to encourage eu trading partners to enter into negotiations on market access. eu law establishes the principle that goods and services subject to market access obligations are subject to the same conditions as eu goods and services in the eu internal procurement market. i support the proposals made to introduce a review clause obliging the commission to assess the impact of the regulation after it has been in force and applied for two years and to adjust it accordingly.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it supports the commission's proposal for a regulation restricting access to the eu's public procurement market to third countries which do not provide reciprocal access to their markets. this regulation also lays down procedures to support negotiations on access for union goods and services to third country procurement markets. the objective of the proposal is to encourage bilateral trade negotiations with third countries on the opening of public procurement markets. many third countries are reluctant to open their procurement markets to international competition or are not opening them more than they have done so far. as a result, eu operators are faced with restrictive practices in public procurement in many of the union's trading partners.
in writing. − the european union, as a free market participant, has created favourable conditions for foreign business entities to participate in public procurement. unfortunately, eu businesses do not always have equal access to public procurement in third countries because of the restrictions that apply, sometimes of a protectionist nature. for these reasons, business operators suffer considerable losses and market distortions occur. i believe that these amendments create a more favourable environment for negotiations with third countries, while at the same time ensuring more favourable conditions for trade. only by ensuring mutual commitments between the eu and third countries in the field of public procurement will free trade be promoted, creating a competitive market in third countries.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the motion to postpone the vote by referring the matter back to committee. the purpose of the proposal is to provide for rules to clarify the status of pollen in honey. the proposal aims to provide an accurate and correct description of pollen, to amend the rules applicable to honey and to bring the honey directive 2001/110/ec into line with the lisbon treaty. the eu produces 13% of the world's honey. for the purpose of this proposal, pollen is defined as a natural component rather than an added ingredient. the fact that the label of honey would indicate that the added ingredient is gm pollen would undoubtedly have a negative impact on the reputation of honey as a natural product. if pollen were to be referred to as an added ingredient, consumers might think that it is a separate product added to honey, when it is not, because pollen enters the hive through the activity of bees and therefore appears in honey without any intervention by beekeepers. i agree with that position.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it supports the parliament's proposed amendment to the eu honey directive. those amendments are necessary in order to adapt that directive to the new procedures provided for in the treaty of lisbon. also to ensure that the labelling of honey products clearly indicates that pollen in honey is an ingredient of honey and not an added ingredient. this is because honey is a natural substance produced by bees, and no nutritional ingredients can be added to it.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims at protecting the financial interests of the european union. in the context of the global financial crisis, it is crucial to protect the european union's revenues and ensure that citizens can make the most of eu funds. the european commission adopted two proposals for the hercule iii and pericles 2020 programmes at the end of 2011. the programmes will be implemented for seven years from january 2014. hercule iii is designed to combat fraud, corruption and any other illegal activities detrimental to the eu's financial interests. the main focus will be on cooperation between the commission, acting through olaf, the competent authorities of the member states and other european institutions and bodies. this programme provides technical and operational support to member states' law enforcement authorities in the fight against illegal cross-border activities and in the field of vocational training. the pericles 2020 programme is an exchange, assistance and training programme to ensure the protection of euro banknotes and coins in europe and worldwide. it will also finance a seminar on 'a community strategy to protect the euro in the mediterranean', training courses on counterfeiting in latin america and staff exchanges between eu and non-eu public authorities.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document because the protection of the european union's financial interests is of particular importance at this time. at the end of 2011, the commission adopted two proposals for the hercule iii and pericles 2020 programmes. the programmes will be implemented for seven years from january 2014. hercule iii is designed to combat fraud, corruption and any other illegal activities detrimental to the eu's financial interests. the main focus is on cooperation between the commission, acting through olaf, the competent authorities of the member states and other european institutions and bodies. the programme aims to ensure equivalent protection in the member states and in all eu institutions, bodies and agencies. the hercule iii programme provides technical and operational support to law enforcement authorities in the member states in their fight against illegal cross-border activities and vocational training. the previous hercule programme had significant results, including the implementation of 70 technical assistance projects, which financed the purchase of sophisticated technical equipment for law enforcement agencies to combat fraud, and anti-fraud training for over 5 300 law enforcement personnel. pericles 2020, meanwhile, is an exchange, assistance and training programme designed to ensure the protection of euro banknotes and coins in europe and worldwide.
in writing. − the amendments proposed by the s&ds concerning tax avoidance were not included, but as i would not like the whole proposal to be suspended, i voted to refer the proposal back to the committee on economic and monetary affairs for reconsideration. simplified customs clearance systems shall not collect statistical information at customs level on goods for which customs clearance is carried out. in order to ensure the quality of intra-eu trade statistics, this proposal aims to collect information on the transport of these goods through the intrastat system. moreover, the exchange of confidential data between the relevant authorities of the member states could benefit the quality of eu statistics.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution, which aims to combat wildlife crime. wildlife crime is an international organized crime business with an annual turnover of 19 billion usd. it is the fourth most serious crime in the world, after drug trafficking, counterfeiting and human trafficking. i support the proposals put forward to the commission to draw up an eu action plan to combat wildlife crime and the illegal trade in wild fauna and flora, including clear targets. it is important to declare a moratorium on the import and export of ivory until poachers no longer pose a threat to wild elephant populations. it is also important that the eu prioritise the fight against wildlife crime in its development aid programming. i support calls for both the eu and the member states to support the international consortium on wildlife crime, which is made up of cites, interpol, the un office on drugs and crime, the world bank and the world customs organization.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it calls on the commission to draw up an eu action plan to combat wildlife crime and the illegal trade in wild fauna and flora without delay. wildlife crime, including poaching and illegal extraction, in consumer countries constitutes a major international organised crime business with an annual turnover of at least usd 19 billion, and is the fourth largest criminal activity in the world after drug trafficking, counterfeiting and human trafficking. these crimes not only threaten the welfare of individual animals and the conservation of the animal and plant species concerned, but also the illegal trade in wild fauna and flora is often linked to international organised crime networks and used as a source of income for such networks and militant rebel groups. unfortunately, the eu is the most important destination market for such illicit trade in the world. if demand for wildlife products remains high and law enforcement efforts are weak, legal trade will continue to be a cover for illicit trade and will encourage poaching, and i therefore fully support the need for a coordinated global response at the highest political level, the strengthening of law enforcement authorities and effective law enforcement and criminal justice systems.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal because wildlife crime is a major international organised crime business with an annual turnover of 19 billion usd and is the fourth largest crime in the world after drug trafficking, counterfeiting and human trafficking. it is therefore necessary to establish an eu action plan to combat wildlife crime and the illegal trade in wild fauna and flora, including clear targets, and to declare moratoriums on the import, export, domestic trade and acquisition of ivory until poachers no longer pose a threat to wild elephant populations. in the programming of development assistance, financial instruments shall include the fight against wildlife crime as a priority. strong support is needed for the international consortium on wildlife crime, which comprises cites, interpol, the un office on drugs and crime, the world bank and the world customs organization, as well as financial resources and expertise.
in writing. − the conservation of biodiversity is one of the key objectives of eu environmental policy. i therefore support this document, which calls for stronger measures to combat poaching and illegal trade in protected or endangered species. i call not only on the eu institutions but also on the member states to review the legislation on liability for such crimes and to ensure that it is properly implemented.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. it should be noted that the eu is also a major market and transit route for illegal wildlife trade. the illegal trade in endangered species generates between eur 18 and 26 billion a year. it is therefore essential that the eu is subject to the eu action plan to combat wildlife crime and the illegal trade in wild fauna and flora. currently, high profitability and low fines for trafficking create favourable conditions for organised crime groups to commit crimes. in this context, it is necessary to use all existing relevant eu and domestic instruments to combat organised crime, corruption and money laundering. wildlife crime should be punishable by penalties commensurate with the seriousness of the crime. i believe that the fight against wildlife crime should be included as a priority in the programming of development finance. in addition, there is a need to strengthen international policies and legal systems, increase law enforcement capacity, meet intelligence technology needs and develop effective judicial systems to better combat wildlife crime at local, national and regional levels.
mr president, the issue we are now debating is difficult to understand and define in correct terms. the practice whereby european citizenship is sold and bought for money entirely compromises the whole eu and is one more blow against the union and more fuel for the eurosceptics. a union of values is what we used to say. we should stop kidding ourselves in such a situation, where citizenship of the union is offered to anybody from any non-democratic or anti-democratic country who has money for a bribe. what if, as some say, it is nothing to do with the responsibilities of the member state? i do not think so. we should at least kindly ask malta to denounce this step; to denounce such citizenship as a moral mistake of anti-european content and give the money received as a bribe back to such a client.
for the efd group not long ago, on 10 december last year, when the parliament voted on the resolution proposed by my colleague mrs edita estrellas, i tabled another motion on behalf of the group of the european people's party, in which i stressed that the right of parents to educate their children in accordance with their religious or non-religious beliefs includes their right to refuse any undue interference by state or non-state actors in the education of their children. i was sincerely glad that the parliament did not then vote in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled by mrs estrella and that the majority of members voted in favour of a different motion for a resolution than the one she had tabled. despite the fact that parliament did not vote in favour of the draft resolution, we are again faced with an attempt to re-spell an old document, wrapped in a new statement by the european commission on non-discrimination in sexual and reproductive health and rights. i would ask my colleagues to respect the position of the european parliament. (the president agreed to answer the question after the blue card had been raised (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to the question posed by the blue card. i am glad that you live in the country you like to live in. my statement was made on 10 december and it is still valid. it is directed against the resolution of edith estrella, the resolution of december 10, on the interference of the state institutions in the education of children.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to strengthen eu industry by encouraging investment in new technologies, improving the business environment and access to markets and facilitating access to finance. the crisis had a major impact on the economies of european countries. it has caused 3.8 million people to lose their jobs in the industrial sector. the eu therefore needs a comprehensive growth strategy to meet these challenges. in 2012, the commission presented a communication on industrial empowerment, which proposes to create the right conditions to stimulate investment and focus on six priority areas: clean manufacturing technologies, markets for biological products, sustainable industrial policy, construction and raw materials, clean vehicles and smart electricity grids. improving the functioning of the internal market for goods, promoting entrepreneurship in the digital single market, protecting intellectual property rights and further promoting the internationalisation of eu smes worldwide are important. it also provides for an increase in the capacity of lending to the real economy through a more efficient mobilisation and allocation of public resources, including from the structural funds and the european investment bank. human capital and skills are also important. it is important to better anticipate the capabilities of human capital and to adapt them to market needs.
in writing. − i supported the proposal because of the need to strengthen eu industry by encouraging investment in new technologies, improving the business environment and access to markets and facilitating access to finance. the right conditions need to be created to encourage investment and to focus on six priority areas with huge potential for economic growth and job creation in europe: smart, clean manufacturing technologies, markets for biological products, sustainable industrial policy, construction and raw materials, clean transport including ships and smart electricity grids. the commission should focus on those actions where significant progress can be achieved quickly: improving the functioning of the internal market for goods, promoting entrepreneurship in the digital single market (which is expected to grow by 10% per year by 2016), protecting intellectual property rights and further promoting the internationalisation of eu smes worldwide. the capacity to lend to the real economy needs to be increased through a more efficient mobilisation and allocation of public resources, including from the structural funds and the european investment bank. in the future, it is important to better anticipate skills needs and matching so that workers can better adapt to industrial change.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. the eu needs a strategy to overcome the economic and financial crisis and to accelerate the new dynamism of the economy. european industry has a crucial role to play and is an important part of the solution to this crisis. the future of europe as an industrial area depends on a modernisation drive that will strengthen innovation centres and close the development gap in industrially and structurally weak regions. european industrial policy therefore needs a strong financial structure to stimulate investment. a more active anti-dumping policy should be pursued to prevent unfair export subsidies in certain third countries. moreover, a real exchange rate policy is needed to protect the eu's commercial interests. it is of particular importance that the social and solidarity-based economy, as well as the circular, recycling and processing economy, be developed. reasonable targets and precise timetables for their implementation should be set. the development of sustainable business models should in particular support smes and the traditional manufacturing sectors. the principle of fair trade, based on mutual respect for social, environmental and cultural norms and standards relating to respect for human rights, must be strictly respected throughout the eu in international trade.
in writing. − i have approved the proposal because the purpose of this measure is to compensate producers in the french overseas departments for the competitive disadvantages caused by their remoteness, isolation, small size, difficult topographical and climatic conditions and economic dependence on several products, in particular the value chains of sugar, cane and rum, since the stability and combination of these factors severely limit the development of these regions. the commission proposes to allow france to apply reduced rates of excise duty and gst for up to 50% of the corresponding standard rates for the period 2014-2020, but the total reduction in excise duty and gst should not exceed 50% of the total rate of duty for alcohol set in article 3 of directive 92/84/eec. this is intended to stimulate the economy of the outermost regions.
in writing. − i have agreed to the proposal as it proposes to recast the relevant articles of the rules of procedure in order to make their structure more consistent and their content more in line with recent case law and the practice of the committee responsible. the immunity of a member is not his personal privilege but a guarantee of the independence and immunity of parliament as a whole and of its members. the rules of procedure should therefore cover this matter without legal loopholes and in sufficient detail to protect the importance of the institutions directly representing union citizens.
in writing. − i have endorsed the proposal as it calls on the commission not to propose authorisations for any new gmo species or renewals of old authorisations until risk assessment methods have been significantly improved and calls on the council to reject this commission proposal. no gmo has been authorised for cultivation in the eu since 2010, when the potato variety 'amflora' was authorised. this authorisation was annulled by the general court of the european union on 13 december 2013. it is widely recognised that the long-term effects of gmo cultivation and the impact on non-target organisms have not been adequately addressed in risk assessments to date. the council and the european parliament recognise the need to strengthen the long-term impact assessment of gmos, to carry out an independent study of the potential risks associated with the deliberate release or placing on the market of gmos and to ensure that independent investigators have access to all relevant material. in the 2010 special report 354 of the eurobarometer, a majority of consumers are concerned about food produced from genetically modified organisms. i agree that genetically modified maize line 1507 does not provide any benefit to consumers.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. in my view, the free movement of persons is one of the fundamental and most important freedoms in the eu today, as more than 14 million eu citizens study, work and live in other countries. i see the free movement of workers as a positive social and economic phenomenon, as it ensures eu integration, economic development of countries, social cohesion, increased personal development in the professional field and more. respect for labour rights is particularly important to ensure a level playing field for all eu workers and fair competition between companies. the proposal to limit the number of eu migrants must be rejected as it is contrary to the principle of free movement of persons enshrined in the eu treaty. labour mobility is one of the factors driving the competitiveness of the eu economy.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal because the right to free movement is one of the four fundamental freedoms of the eu, enshrined in the treaty on the functioning of the european union as a cornerstone of european integration and as directly linked to eu citizenship. free movement is one of the eu's core values, as it gives its citizens the choice of where to live and work, and promotes mobility and development in the labour market, education and other areas. eu citizens see free movement as the right most closely linked to eu citizenship and as a positive achievement of the eu that brings economic benefits to their country's economy. the benefits of free movement of eu mobile workers in the host country's development are seen across europe, particularly in the fields of health, agriculture and construction. the free movement of workers is a positive social and economic example for the eu and its member states: it is a cornerstone of eu integration, economic development, social cohesion, personal professional development, tackling the negative effects of the economic crisis and of the union as a stronger economic power ready to face the challenges of global change. calls on the member states to respect the treaty provisions on free movement and the eu rules on free movement and to ensure that the principles of equality and the fundamental right to free movement are respected in all member states; member states must not discriminate against eu mobile workers by falsely linking the right to free movement for work purposes to alleged abuse of social protection systems.
in writing. − freedom of movement is a fundamental eu value on which the eu treaties are based. this is one of the most essential and attractive guarantees of eu citizenship. the parties should cooperate more closely with each other and with the european institutions to address emerging problems and effectively prevent abuses. at the same time, however, politicians and governments must refrain from linking generalised and irregular labour migration to the abuse of social benefits systems, anti-immigration rhetoric, and the shifting of responsibility for the economic hardships of countries onto the shoulders of immigrants, who undoubtedly contribute to the host country's economy. populism based on the problems of this area is particularly dangerous because, among other things, it undermines the mutual respect and solidarity of people united by eu citizenship.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. i am very concerned about the programmes in malta and in some countries of the european union which allow third-country nationals, directly or indirectly, to buy their citizenship and at the same time their eu citizenship. the maltese parliament is seeking to sell citizenship for €650,000, thus issuing a passport. in other words, foreign nationals will have the opportunity to purchase a maltese passport under a special 'investor programme' and under specific conditions which do not require permanent residence. under the eu treaties, residence and citizenship are matters of exclusive competence of the member states, and i therefore expect each eu member state to respect and seek to preserve the common values and achievements of the eu. these values, one of which is citizenship, are invaluable and cannot be priced. eu citizenship entails not only rights but also obligations. i also hope that member states will act wisely in their competence in this area and take into account possible undesirable side effects. the european commission, for its part, should clearly assess whether these programmes comply with the provisions of the eu treaty, the schengen and non-discrimination rules.
in writing. − on 12 november 2013, the maltese parliament adopted amendments to the maltese citizenship act which will allow maltese and therefore eu citizenship to be sold to third-country nationals for €650,000. the amendments provide that the names of third-country nationals acquiring citizenship will not be published and that they will not be required to live, work or invest in malta or to enter malta or any other member state. several other member states offer citizenship by investment, unlike malta, where money is paid directly to the government. the maltese government will receive approximately eur 30 million for the sale of 45 citizenship in the first year. it is estimated that between 200 and 300 applications for citizenship will be received each year. malta is a member of the eu and the schengen area. eu citizens have the right to move freely within the community. in addition, there are no border controls in the schengen area. the opposition has strongly criticised these plans, complaining that candidates do not have to live and invest in malta. the nationalist party is therefore afraid that malta will soon be compared to a tax haven in the caribbean. it does not rule out the possibility of holding a referendum against the sale of citizenship. i voted in favour of the obligation to clearly indicate whether these citizenship sales schemes are in conformity with the eu treaties. the rights granted by eu citizenship are based on human dignity and should not be bought or sold, and money should not be the main criterion for granting eu citizenship to third-country nationals.
in writing. − it is important that serbia is moving towards normalisation of relations with kosovo, which has declared independence. progress on this one of the most important issues is visible and welcome. the implementation of the agreements reached, the corresponding changes and approaches, and in the legal area, such as the constitution, which still declares kosovo to be an integral part of serbia, are now important. we have long been concerned about the business environment and the protection of foreign investment. i trust that the problems that arise will be properly addressed. there is still much work to be done in many other areas, including the fight against corruption and economic strengthening. the eu's accession partners need not simply transpose the acquis into national law, but often the challenge is much greater in terms of its proper implementation and capacity building. i agree that the accession negotiations are a very strong and comprehensive monitoring instrument. at the same time, it is necessary to involve and inform both parliament and the widest possible public in a timely and appropriate manner. i want to highlight the aspects of justice and historical memory as essential to further democratization and reconciliation. the research and analysis of the archives of the special services of the socialist republic of yugoslavia must be facilitated and encouraged, ensuring free access to these archives and, where necessary, their sharing with interested parties.
in writing. − the european parliament supports the stabilisation and association negotiations with the republic of kosovo. however, not all eu countries have established diplomatic relations with the country. for kosovo, the rapprochement with the eu is one of the strongest drivers of normalisation, internal reforms and political and economic consolidation in relations with its neighbours.
in writing. − iceland fulfils the copenhagen criteria and accession negotiations with iceland were opened on 27 july 2010, following the council's approval. negotiations were opened on 27 chapters, and 11 of them were provisionally closed. the newly elected icelandic government has suspended the eu accession process and an assessment of the accession negotiations and developments in the european union is currently being prepared in the light of the discussions in the icelandic parliament (altinge) on these issues. the icelandic government has stated that accession negotiations will only resume after a referendum has been held. i support the prospect of a new member state with a long-standing tradition of democracy and strong institutions and civil society. iceland has a good overall capacity to assume the obligations of membership, in particular as a result of its participation in the european economic area. the european union remains fully committed to continuing and completing the accession negotiation process. the latest opinion polls show that a majority of icelanders want to conclude the accession negotiations. i hope that a referendum will be held soon.
in writing. − the newly elected icelandic government has suspended the eu accession process and announced its intention to hold a referendum on eu membership. the european union, for its part, remains fully committed to continuing and completing the accession negotiation process. iceland is undoubtedly an exceptional candidate, with a deep democratic tradition and strong institutions and civil society, as well as a long-standing involvement in the european economic area, with good overall capacity and capacity to assume the obligations of membership.
in writing. - i support the resolution expressing grave concern at the outbreak of violence in south sudan. this nascent state, which declared independence in 2011, faces enormous challenges due to its high illiteracy rate, high levels of poverty, rampant corruption, difficult relations with its neighbours and decades of conflict. the situation is already very fragile, and the recent resurgence of conflict between two political actors, each controlling certain military elements, is hampering peace negotiations, fuelling ethnic discord, further atrocities and gross human rights violations. we must have an immediate ceasefire and an agreement. strengthening the young state, fulfilling the aspirations of its people and peace must be the top priority.
in writing. − i supported the proposal because all human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights and because it is the responsibility of the member states to support and ensure the realisation of these rights. homelessness is a violation of human dignity and human rights. housing is a basic human need and a prerequisite for a decent life and social inclusion. under the europe 2020 strategy and its flagship initiative, the european roadmap against poverty and social exclusion, as well as the eu social investment packet, unemployment has become a priority for the eu's poverty reduction policy. however, the current levels of poverty and social exclusion risk undermining the europe 2020 target of reducing the number of people living in poverty and social exclusion or at risk of poverty and social exclusion by at least 20 million. unemployment is one of the most extreme forms of poverty and deprivation and has increased in recent years in almost all member states. i agree that there should be an eu homelessness strategy or something like that. the eu homelessness strategy should be implemented in full compliance with the treaty, which affirms 'a significant role for national, regional and local authorities and a wide margin of manoeuvre in the provision, commissioning or organisation of services of general economic interest that are as responsive as possible to the needs of consumers'. the eu homelessness strategy should help member states to assume this responsibility as effectively as possible, in full respect of the principle of subsidiarity.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. i think that we should have an eu strategy on homelessness as soon as possible. this strategy should help member states to take responsibility for tackling homelessness in full respect of the principle of subsidiarity. it should be noted that homelessness should be integrated into all relevant eu policies. particular attention should be paid to youth, cross-border homelessness and the prevention of homelessness. the european homelessness field needs to be monitored regularly. in addition, the eu should promote social innovation in homelessness policies and services, and research and cooperation are being developed to enhance mutual learning and exchange of best practice and to develop a common policy approach. it is essential that member states organise regular round tables in this area. it should be noted that effective prevention policies should reduce evictions and effectively combat all forms of discrimination against homeless people and the exclusion of entire communities. i believe that the use of the fund for european aid to the most deprived and other programmes should be further encouraged to improve the situation of homeless people and to develop a plan for social inclusion and integration into the labour market.
mr president, on 5 december 2013 i hosted a ppe public hearing entitled ‘bangladesh: towards free and fair national elections’, with the awami league and bangladesh nationalist party representatives taking part. today we are all well aware of the outcome of the elections and of the post-election situation in the country. we call on the government of the country to immediately halt all repressive methods used by the security forces and to release arbitrarily-arrested opposition politicians. in order to get out of the political crisis, i believe that all options should be considered, including an early election if all legitimate political parties are willing to stand and offer voters a choice. of course, the eu should use all means at its disposal to assist such a process.
in writing. one of the eu's founding principles subsidiarity. however, ms lunacek's report is in fundamental breach of the principle of the division of competences between the eu and the national states. questions such as life, marriage and the family are the exclusive competence of the national states. however, the report contains provisions which require member states to recognise the civil status of different marriages, to adapt to changing family patterns and to interpret reproductive rights. all these and similar provisions presuppose special conditions and privileges for one group of people. although the new text proposed by the various political groups is much more moderate, it still contains provisions which allow the member states to impose certain provisions. no one is questioning the fundamental human rights enshrined in many documents, but we must leave the member states to decide on the issues of value.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 2368/2002 as regards greenland's participation in the kimberley process certification scheme, as it is closely linked to the proposal for a council decision laying down the rules and procedures for greenland's participation in the kimberley process certification scheme. both proposals seek to allow greenland to participate in the kimberley process certification scheme (kpcs) for rough diamonds in cooperation with the european union. the scheme proposed would allow the import and export of rough diamonds from greenland to and from the union and to other countries participating in the certification scheme only if all imports and exports of rough diamonds are subject to verification by the union authorities and, in the case of exports, to the issue of a certificate in accordance with the requirements of regulation (ec) no 2368/2002 implementing the kimberley process certification scheme for international trade in rough diamonds. this is an important, innovative measure to stop the flow of conflict diamonds (crude diamonds) used by rebel movements to finance wars with legitimate authorities. the european union is actively involved in this process and seeks to play an even more effective role.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this proposal for a council decision laying down the rules and procedures for the participation of greenland in the kimberley process certification scheme, as it is closely linked to the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 2368/2002 as regards greenland's participation in the kimberley process certification scheme. both proposals seek to allow greenland to participate in the kimberley process certification scheme (kpcs) for rough diamonds in cooperation with the european union. the scheme proposed would allow the import and export of rough diamonds from greenland to and from the union and to other countries participating in the certification scheme only if all imports and exports of rough diamonds are subject to verification by the union authorities and, in the case of exports, to the issue of a certificate in accordance with the requirements of regulation (ec) no 2368/2002 implementing the kimberley process certification scheme for international trade in rough diamonds. this is an important, innovative measure to stop the flow of conflict diamonds (crude diamonds) used by rebel movements to finance wars with legitimate authorities. the european union is actively involved in this process and seeks to play an even more effective role.
in writing. - i have supported the proposal to move from national credit transfer and direct debit schemes to harmonised sepa credit transfer (hereinafter referred to as 'sct') and sepa direct debit (hereinafter referred to as 'sdd') schemes, inter alia by providing union citizens with a unique international bank account number (iban) which can be used for all euro sct and sdd transactions. the regulation provided for the transition to sepa by 1 february 2014, but a large group of member states lags far behind the planned transition rates. therefore, it is unlikely that all market participants will be in compliance with the sepa rules by 1 february 2014. a transitional period should therefore be provided for to allow for the continued parallelisation of the different payment formats. the only additional transitional period of six months is considered appropriate. during the transitional period, member states should not impose penalties on payment service providers who execute non-compliant payments and on payment service users who have not yet switched to sepa.
in writing. - i voted for this motion. it should be noted that the regulation setting technical and commercial requirements for credit transfers and direct debit operations in euro is an important element in the implementation of the single euro payments area (sepa). however, the deadline it sets for national and intra-european credit transfers and direct debits in euro to become sepa credit transfers and sepa direct debits is questionable. in some member states, the transition to this system is too slow. furthermore, until the full transition to sepa is completed, there is a risk of payment incidents leading to late payments or market disruptions. in view of this legal problem and the possible consequences for citizens and businesses, i consider it appropriate to extend the sepa transition period by at least six months.
in writing. - i voted for this report. the number of new infringement procedures has decreased in recent years, which is to be welcomed. however, there is cause for concern that in the last few years there has been an increase in cases of late transposition into national law, in particular in the areas of fundamental rights, the environment, the internal market and property rights in the areas of the environment, the internal market, transport and taxation. i think the commission should do more to ensure that petitions to parliament and complaints to the commission are treated with the same care. parliament shall have the right to receive detailed information on specific acts or provisions which raise problems of transposition into national law, as well as on the number of complaints against specific acts or provisions. particular attention should be paid to the 'eu pilot' system. it is a platform for bilateral discussions between the commission and the member states. it is necessary to strengthen its implementation in order to ensure transparency for complainants, to provide citizens with more information about the system.
in writing. - immunity is a special guarantee and privilege. this guarantee ensures the uninterrupted execution of the mandate and, at the same time, the effective functioning of the institutions. a member must be protected against unjustified persecution, while ensuring the continuity of his or her work and that of parliament, their autonomy and independence. the waiver of immunity is a highly sensitive issue, as a member of parliament is often the target of political intrigue, rumours, settling of accounts and, ultimately, potential unfounded criminal charges. but on the other hand, it's not a personal privilege. in each case, the rule of law and the separation of powers must be respected in the decision-making process.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal because it is of great benefit to eu citizens. it removes bureaucratic obstacles and implements the principle of mutual trust. it reduces taxes for the benefit of citizens and companies, while at the same time creating a system of administrative assistance that can better protect against fraud. this proposal does not in any way harmonise the fundamental law of the member states in the relevant areas. no indication that a member state is obliged to recognise a certificate issued in another member state. this is the abolition of additional crossborder formalities. the formalities for legalising and apostillating documents should be abolished. in case of doubt, the authorities may either request administrative assistance or require the original or certified copy of the document to be produced. in this case, a copy certified in another member state must also be accepted. the exemption applies to entries in registers for which the state is financially responsible for the accuracy. for certified translations: it is proposed to accept jointly uncertified translations. in case of doubt, an official or certified translation may be required. a copy certified in one member state must be valid in all other member states. multilingual standard eu forms ten additional multilingual eu forms are being developed to cover as widely as possible all problem cases.
in writing. - one of the eu's characteristics is the free movement of persons, which is essential to ensure the proper functioning of the eu. however, the field still faces a variety of administrative formalities that make it difficult for eu citizens to benefit from the opportunities offered by the free movement of persons, such as the requirement for certified translations or copies, the non-recognition of certified translations carried out in another eu country, etc. the proposals put forward simplify the administrative burden for eu citizens in relation to the recognition of public documents, and i therefore support this report. i believe that the proposal to use multilingual forms when justifying legal facts (date of birth, divorce, etc.) would simplify administrative procedures and reduce the discrepancies between different eu countries, while at the same time facilitating the use of the opportunities offered by the free movement of persons.
in writing. - i voted for this report. we need to do more to promote the free movement of citizens and businesses. the proposal to simplify the recognition of certain public documents throughout the eu is welcome. it is worth noting that the new order will make life and freedom of movement easier for millions of europeans living outside their home countries and for thousands of businesses. it should be noted that the current eu regime is flawed and creates an unnecessary bureaucratic burden. both natural and legal persons are experiencing enormous difficulties, wasting time and incurring financial losses. in this context, i believe it is appropriate to legalise simplified document recognition throughout the eu. it is to be welcomed that the proposed amendment to the regulation also provides for a safeguard mechanism to help prevent possible counterfeiting. i agree with the commission's proposal that if doubts arise about the authenticity of a document, the internal market information system should be used to clarify the matter. in addition, common multilingual key document formats should be used to simplify the recognition of public documents.
in writing. - i voted for this proposed rule change. the introduction of new regulatory measures is necessary to ensure better protection of workers' health and safety. however, the new provisions should not restrict the potential for the creation and development of smes and their job creation. good health and safety standards should not be seen as constraints. these are fundamental rights and must apply without exception to all sectors of the labour market and to all types of enterprises, irrespective of their size. it is essential to maintain a high level of protection in the eu. in the light of technological progress, existing provisions should be kept under review and adapted to changing conditions, while ensuring the necessary level of health and safety protection in the case of exposure to hazardous substances and mixtures in the working environment. particular attention should be paid to workers in certain professions who frequently work in environments where dangerous chemicals and mixtures are present. it is essential that the commission properly and timely implement the functions entrusted to it and develop interpretative guidelines, in particular for smes.
in writing. - intellectual property and its opportunities are considered to be an under-exploited area in the eu. the management of collective copyright and related rights covered by the communication is often subject to a well-earned criticism for its lack of efficiency and transparency. i therefore support the gallo report, which proposes greater transparency, better management and implementation (by reducing the cost of procedures, simplifying the licensing process in some cases, etc.). i support the proposal to create a new instrument to ensure a better functioning of the online music sector in europe, including the provision of multi-territorial licences for the use of musical works online. i believe it is important that the eu becomes a leader in collective rights management, that the administrative burden on users and rights holders is reduced and that a mechanism is put in place to ensure that artists' rights are properly protected.
in writing. - i voted for this report. in particular, the new copyright rules for musical works will make it easier for businesses selling music online to obtain a licence to use these works in several eu countries at once. this will encourage a wider availability of music works online and ensure better protection of copyright. it is to be welcomed that the european parliament has succeeded in ensuring that the requested organisation is obliged to administer the repertoire represented by the applicant organisation under the same conditions as it administers its own repertoire. this will allow rightholders to freely choose the organisation that best represents their rights. all organisations will have to ensure that, in the exercise of their functions, authors receive adequate remuneration for the use of their works in a timely manner. in this context, it is essential that these organisations are subject to appropriate requirements for transparency, accountability, governance and transparent use of revenues. high standards of governance, transparency and reporting must be established across the eu.
in writing. - i voted in favour of a report on rules to simplify the licensing of music and to ensure better protection of the interests of rights holders. this will facilitate the online distribution of music across the european union, and allow creators to participate directly in the management of their rights and to receive payment more quickly. an independent study has shown that, if the copyright tax system were to be solved, the digital single market would bring an additional €500 billion or 4% of gdp to europe. the eu online music market is currently fragmented due to a complex and uncoordinated regulatory framework, which is hampering the entry of new providers. it is therefore proposed to simplify the provision of multi-territorial licences for the use of musical works online. it is important that the new arrangements benefit music composers and lyricists. their royalties will be collected more fairly and distributed more equitably.
in writing. - i voted in favour, as the aim is to establish criminal sanctions for the most serious market abuse offences in the european union. the current sanctions against market abuse are not effective and sufficiently dissuasive, and therefore the directive is not implemented effectively. the offences of insider dealing or market manipulation which constitute criminal offences vary considerably between member states. in this crucial area, the commission has for the first time used the powers conferred by the treaty of lisbon to harmonise criminal law provisions in order to implement harmonisation measures effectively.
in writing. - i voted for this report. in order to prevent market manipulation offences, the same criminal sanctions should apply throughout the eu. this will restore confidence in financial markets and protect investors. it should be noted that the lack of a union-wide criminal sanction regime currently allows market abusers to benefit from leniency in some member states and avoid liability. it is therefore necessary to provide for more severe penalties, including imprisonment, for such serious offences. i therefore support the proposal to harmonise maximum sentencing periods for these offences at eu level. furthermore, the introduction of criminal sanctions for market abuse offences will act as a deterrent for potential offenders. it is important to note that market manipulation can cause serious harm to the lives of millions of people. the current problems and gaps have a major impact on market confidence and can cause significant losses for investors and distort the real economy.
in writing. - i voted for this proposal because it aims to make the relationship between demand and supply more transparent. member states are required to report to the commission every two years data and information on investment projects relating to the construction, modernisation or decommissioning of oil, natural gas, electricity production and transmission and storage capacities. this information shall include oil, natural gas, electricity, biofuels and carbon dioxide emissions from the use of these resources. under the regulation, energy companies are required to provide their member state with the necessary data. the commission would be kept accurately and regularly informed of investment projects in eu energy infrastructure in order to fulfil its energy tasks. it will carry out every two years a study of the evolution and prospects of the structure of the eu energy system in the various sectors, as well as any other special studies required. this will allow identifying possible future supply and demand gaps and barriers to investment.
in writing. - i agree. this regulation provides that member states agree to provide the commission with information on their investments in energy infrastructure every two years in order to achieve the objectives of the eu energy policy and the establishment of the eu internal energy market. the ep also stresses that the information should be provided on infrastructure investments involving third countries. the information procedure established and the commission's commitment to provide an inquiry will help to ensure that funds are invested in projects that meet priority objectives, to assess the real situation, to identify potential obstacles to investment, to promote transparency for market participants, to better balance supply and demand, and to avoid production and transmission infrastructure shortfalls in the future.
in writing. - i voted for this report. i think it is appropriate to receive information from the member states on a systematic basis on certain types of investment projects relating to the creation, modernisation or decommissioning of generation, transmission and storage capacities. this will make the forecasted demand and the current supply more transparent. i do not think that the new requirements will impose an additional administrative or financial burden on energy companies. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of personal data. it is also appropriate to extend the scope of this regulation to include coal as an important element in the energy mix with implications for eu energy policy. it is also essential to provide information not only on projects within the eu but also on infrastructure investments in third countries that have an impact on the european energy market. it is worth noting that the production of energy by smaller entities will become an important part of the eu's energy production, and it is therefore appropriate to reduce the threshold related to the capacity of onshore wind power plants.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this proposal because the legislation proposed and adopted at european union level should be simple, effective and efficient, should provide clear added value, should be easily understandable and accessible in all the official languages of the member states, and should provide full benefits at the lowest cost. the eu institutions must respect the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality when adopting legislation. better legislation the principle thinking of the little ones first should be the most important part of the whole process.
in writing. - the eu is working to reduce administrative burdens and increase the involvement of eu citizens in decision-making, but the eu is still criticised for its lack of democracy. there are several reasons for this. one of them is the insufficiently flexible application of the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality, which are inherent in the area of shared competence and involve national parliaments in decision-making. secondly, the time limits for national parliaments to submit comments and proposals are often too short, leading to criticism that the eu institutions do not hear the voice of the member states. that is why i voted in favour of this report, which makes proposals and suggests taking measures such as the 2003 interinstitutional agreement on better law-making, because i believe that this will facilitate legislative procedures in the area of shared competence, make them clearer to eu citizens and, at the same time, contribute to the spread of democracy in the eu.
in writing. - i voted against this document which aggressively attempts to impose the ideological dictates of homosexuals on the citizens of european countries. i think we cannot allow this to be imposed on all citizens of european countries. the report calls for the granting of special rights to homosexuals and people with gender identity problems, giving them privileges over all other citizens of european countries. i cannot agree with the substance of the provisions of this report, and the assertion that 'member states which have adopted legislation on de facto cohabitation, registered partnership or marriage between same-sex couples should recognise similar provisions adopted by other member states' is an unacceptable ideological imposition. i think that this aspect of relations between member states is unacceptable. the requirements of this document are certainly not going to help protect the rights of all eu citizens, and its content is inexcusably contrary to the principle of equality. we must respect the rights of all citizens, not just those of a select group.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the document because consumption is one of the main drivers of growth in the european union, consumers have the greatest influence on the eu economy and consumer protection and their rights are one of the eu's core values. i agree that the aim must be to ensure a high level of consumer protection throughout the european union and to strengthen consumer confidence in the single market, while guaranteeing a high level of legal certainty for businesses and reducing barriers to cross-border trade. the development of the digital economy and technological devices has fundamentally changed the way companies buy and advertise and sell their goods and services. some businesses, especially smaller ones, and many consumers are still not sufficiently aware of their rights in europe. the role of consumer associations needs to be strengthened and they need to be given the opportunity to strengthen their capacity. i believe that the objective must be to ensure that all economic operators in the union, in particular consumers and smes, are adequately protected against fraudulent or dishonest practices, thereby enhancing confidence in the single market.
in writing. - i support the speaker's position. the independence of the judiciary is considered an integral and necessary feature of democracy, but at the same time we must strive to ensure that the judiciary not only remains independent but also functions effectively and with quality, and that the judiciary is stable and predictable, as this is the only way for citizens and businesses to have confidence in the institutions of the judiciary. in order to achieve these objectives and to ensure the proper application of eu law, it is necessary to ensure common standards and effective judicial remedies. i also believe that it is important to promote alternative dispute resolution mechanisms which would ensure faster resolution of disputes and partly reduce the burden on the courts.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this proposal because, with rising energy prices, climate change and new social and economic challenges, all eu regions will have to find ways to ensure a stable and secure supply of energy that is affordable for all citizens, while respecting environmental and sustainability criteria. in addition to ensuring security of electricity supply and reducing dependence on fossil fuels, advanced networks provide a range of other benefits to local communities, such as increased employment and the creation of green jobs. the renewable energy sector has weathered the current economic crisis and can continue to create jobs in regions where they are most needed, such as in coastal and rural areas. the success of leading regions and communities is often determined by openness and transparency on the part of local authorities, businesses, industry, local communities and citizens. member states and local and regional authorities are therefore encouraged to invest in smart local networks as early as possible.
in writing. - the development of smart grids is essential not only for the development and promotion of renewable energy sources across the eu, but also at local and regional levels. good practice shows that energy independence of individual settlements is possible through the use of smart grids. on the other hand, an individual consumer, by being connected to such a network, can freely switch from being a consumer to being an electricity producer and reduce his electricity bills. that is why i support the efforts to develop smart grids not only at the macro level but also at the micro level.
in writing. - the european union must continue to expand and make better use of existing renewable energy sources in order to become independent of foreign energy suppliers. however, in many regions, the most feasible indicators have already been achieved and we are approaching the limit of the capacity of the existing infrastructure to incorporate green energy into the electricity transmission grids. i voted for this report because it shows the way forward for eu countries and regions to tackle this problem. the report shows how eu regions can become energy exporters rather than energy importers. this will boost the regional economy and create new jobs. i agree that the regions should make the most of eu funds to modernise existing electricity networks. the development and improvement of advanced networks is an inevitable next step. but this process cannot be done from the top down, it must be discussed in depth and coordinated with local communities so that all the people in the regions feel the real benefits of change.
in writing. - i supported the proposal because small farms are not only productive but also provide for the livelihoods of millions of people in europe, prevent poverty, and preserve traditions and customs, but they are given little attention in the eu's common agricultural policy. member states and the european commission are therefore invited to take into account the specific needs of small, family-run farms, which are an important part of the european agricultural model and the basis for multifunctional rural development: to strengthen the competitiveness of small farms, to create jobs and to slow down the process of rural depopulation. measures to halt the process of rural depopulation and depopulation are urgently needed to create the right conditions and long-term prospects for small farms in their current location. whether this will be achieved will depend not only on the documents adopted in brussels, on national legislation, but also on concrete actions, which i believe must be taken immediately here in lithuania.
in writing. - support for small-scale agricultural producers is a particularly important part of support for rural areas. however, measures must be taken not only in the context of the distribution of eu support, but above all at national level. member states shall, by means of their laws, regulations and administrative provisions, facilitate the activities of small farmers in the growing, production and marketing of their products. protection against unfair competition by large market players must also be ensured.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal because the eu is the second largest steel producer in the world, producing over 177 million tonnes of steel a year, or 11% of world steel production. trade policy can play an important role in promoting the development of the steel industry. maintaining a competitive steel production in europe is of strategic importance for european economic growth and job creation. over the last few years, more than 65 000 jobs have been lost in the european steel industry as a result of plant closures. the recovery of domestic demand is unlikely to recover in the near future and the share of european companies in the global market is declining. the survival of the european steel industry is threatened by a decline in competitiveness. it is therefore necessary to support the strategic development of key steel-using sectors by improving investment conditions (including in research and innovation and skills development), by creating incentives for efficient and fair production processes (e.g. through standardisation and public procurement policies), by strengthening the internal market and by pursuing european infrastructure development projects. as steel will continue to be a key material in european industrial value chains, it is proposed to increase its demand in the key steel-using sectors, including new industries with high growth potential. better market monitoring, measures to reduce the social impact of industrial restructuring, including the use of eu funds.
first of all, i would like to thank mr fjellner, the author of this important report, for his cooperation and efforts to reach a compromise acceptable to the majority. as the lithuanian representative, i note that lithuanian producers strongly support the european commission's legal initiative to modernise the community's trade defence instruments. i am fully convinced that active and open trade requires effective measures to combat unfair trade practices, harmful dumping or subsidising practices. i will note that the main causes of unfair trade are artificially distorted prices of raw materials and energy resources. in this context, the removal of the advantage of the lesser duty rule is of particular importance. this is also the case for lithuanian producers in the chemical, fertiliser, plastics and other sectors, which suffer from, for example, russian export duties on raw materials or double pricing of gas. the shortening of the duration of anti-dumping and anti-subsidy investigations is also important. it is clear that unfair trading prevents all market participants from being able to ensure a level playing field and thus directly affects the competitiveness of european union enterprises. i fully support the inta committee's position on this matter, as expressed in the vote of 21 january, and i urge my colleague to reject all the new amendments.
in writing. mr president, the regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a community control system to ensure compliance with the rules of the common fisheries policy is a good step towards better protection of this economic sector, which is of particular importance to the baltic sea countries such as lithuania. unfair competition, which has wiped out many small and medium-sized enterprises, is a persistent problem in the new community countries. and this could very quickly become a global problem, because today, almost 12% of the world's population lives off of fishing, processing and trade. this number is a call to action. we must do everything we can to keep our jobs. we need to have thoughtful fishing regulations. this will improve the management of this sector within the european union. we cannot focus on the european union's territorial seas alone, because the restrictions will have an even greater impact on european fishermen. this needs to be discussed internationally as soon as possible. it is not small boats in the baltic sea that are a threat to fish, but giant trawlers. their activities should be restricted rather than dismantled, and the family fishing business should be strengthened and developed. they are a guarantee of rational fishing decisions. the elimination of these in the new member states, even at eu money, benefits only the big companies. it's an attempt to eliminate competition in this market. therefore, a good plan for the future will be to support small-scale fishing rather than to eliminate it.
in writing. it is welcome that lithuania, during its presidency, has concluded negotiations and reached agreement on a directive laying down the conditions for the entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purpose of seasonal work in the european union. this proposal for a directive sets out the conditions under which seasonal workers would be granted the right to reside and work for a maximum of six months in any calendar year and also defines the rights of seasonal workers. the directive should apply to the agricultural, horticultural and tourism sectors, as the activities related to these sectors are seasonal and increase the demand for labour during the season. this directive aims to prevent the exploitation of seasonal workers, by reducing their remuneration and working conditions. the directive also aims to prevent illegal immigration and illegal work in the european union. the european parliament proposes to include information for seasonal workers in the directive to reduce the risk of exploitation. it is proposed that prospective seasonal workers and employers should be provided with information to enable them to make a decision on whether to become seasonal workers or to hire seasonal workers. the european parliament also proposes to include in the proposal monitoring and verification systems in the member states to ensure that the rights of seasonal workers are fully respected and that the provisions of this directive are enforced.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to establish a common procedure for the entry and residence of seasonal workers from third countries in the european union and the rights of such workers. about 100 000 seasonal workers arrive in the eu each year. the proposal aims to prevent the exploitation of these workers and the conversion of short-term work into permanent employment. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules. member states will be able to take them on for between 5 and 9 months, during which they will be able to renew their employment contract or change employers at least once. i agree that each member state should have the right to decide on the number of seasonal workers it will take on. i agree with the proposals that the application for seasonal work in the eu should be accompanied by an employment contract specifying the salary and working hours. it is also important that the application be accompanied by appropriate documentation proving the accommodation conditions. it is important that seasonal workers have the same rights as eu citizens in areas such as minimum working age, pay, dismissal, working hours, holidays and health and safety requirements at work.
in writing. - over 100 000 seasonal workers from third countries arrive in the european union each year. i voted in favour of rules that will make their working and living conditions easier. for the first time, seasonal workers will be able to benefit from the right to adequate accommodation, as well as the right to extend their stay and change employers. in addition, provisions on non-discrimination, protection against dismissal and labour inspection have been strengthened. this would help to ensure that third-country seasonal workers are not exploited. although many people in europe are out of work, certain areas of the eu need workers from third countries. we therefore need to ensure that this process is carried out in a wise and appropriate manner. if these standards are not met, we will face social dumping and exploitation of workers. then dishonest employers will likely resort to illegal employment, leading to increased illegal immigration and human trafficking. so while these rules may not solve all problems overnight, they are an important step in the right direction.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to repeal regulation (ec) no 827/2004 prohibiting the importation of bigeye tuna originating in bolivia, cambodia, equatorial guinea, georgia and sierra leone. iccat (an international organisation of which the european union is a contracting party) has decided to lift the ban on imports of atlantic bigeye tuna and products thereof from bolivia and georgia. in accordance with its international obligations, the eu should transpose that decision into union law and consequently repeal that regulation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of repealing regulation (ec) no 827/2004 banning the import of bigeye tuna originating in bolivia, cambodia, equatorial guinea, georgia and sierra leone. the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (iccat) has decided to lift the ban on imports of atlantic bigeye tuna and products thereof from bolivia and georgia. in accordance with its international obligations, the eu should transpose that decision into union law and consequently repeal that regulation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims at the renewal of the protocol to the fisheries partnership agreement between the european community and the gabonese republic. as a result of the lack of updating of the protocol, eu fishing vessels have not been active since 2011. the eu will pay gaon eur 1 350 000 per year for fishing rights: eur 900 000 for access to fishery resources and eur 450 000 for the development of gabon's fisheries policy. i agree with the suggestions that the european union should make greater efforts to check that the principles necessary for the use of aid are respected. it is important to improve the regular monitoring of catches by european union vessels in the gabonese fishing zone and to collect up-to-date and more accurate scientific data on fish stocks and total fishing effort in gabonese waters.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to establish cooperation between the european union and greenland and denmark for the period 2014-2020. it will replace the agreement covering the period 2006-2013. the agreement covers the main areas of cooperation: education and training, minerals, energy, tourism and culture, research and food supply. the financial contribution from the european union to greenland for the period 2014-2020 shall be eur 217,8 million. i support the proposals set out below to remove some references to exploration and exploitation of natural resources from the text of the agreement in order to ensure the neutrality of the agreement and the right of the greenlandic authorities to freely decide which sector of cooperation will receive eu financial support. it is important that natural resources are used in accordance with strict environmental sustainability criteria. i also believe that eu financial support should be allocated on a pro gramme basis to programmes aimed at the social development of the people of greenland.
in writing. - i have endorsed the proposal on relations between the european union and greenland and the kingdom of denmark, which sets out the framework for cooperation between the two countries for the period 2014-2020. this decision will replace council decision 2006/526/ec covering the period 2006-2013. the decision builds substantially on the provisions and achievements of the previous decision and will contribute to strengthening the excellent relations which the european union currently enjoys with greenland and the kingdom of denmark. the areas of cooperation covered by the agreement are: education and training, minerals, energy, tourism and culture, research and food supply. eu financial assistance should be directed to programmes aimed at the social development of the people of greenland, giving priority to the economic development of the territory, as the significant potential for the exploration and exploitation of natural resources, including gas and oil, will undoubtedly attract the necessary private investment or european investment bank loans and will not require a contribution of state capital. however, it is necessary to take all precautionary measures to ensure that greenland's natural resources are used in accordance with strict environmental sustainability criteria in order to protect the fragile ecosystem of the region.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to improve preparedness for natural and man-made disasters. over the past decade, europe's land temperatures have risen by an average of 1.3 degrees celsius compared to pre-industrial temperatures, while the global climate has warmed by 0.8 degrees celsius. we've had some extreme weather. it is estimated that each euro spent on flood protection will save six euros, as losses will be avoided accordingly. without adaptation, the eu will suffer annual losses of €100 billion in 2020 and €250 billion in 2050 due to the impacts of climate change. the european commission has put forward a two-part package to tackle this problem: an eu strategy for adaptation to climate change and a green paper on the prevention of natural and man-made disasters. the documents set out the framework and measures for implementing the eu's preparedness for the current and future impacts of climate change, and open a wide-ranging public debate on the adequacy and sufficiency of existing safeguards. i support the proposals set out to encourage all member states to develop comprehensive climate change adaptation strategies and to provide financial support to strengthen climate change adaptation capacity. it is important to integrate climate change adaptation into policies in vulnerable sectors such as agriculture, fisheries and cohesion. it is also necessary to increase the resilience of eu infrastructure and to promote protection against natural and man-made disasters.
in writing. - i supported the proposal because the situation on the eu insurance market is not uniform, because member states face different risks and different natural and man-made disasters, and the predictability of these disasters depends on different factors, and natural and man-made disasters are financial risks, no matter where they occur. natural disasters are affected by climatic and geographical factors, while man-made disasters are caused by misconduct or poor risk management. the consequences of certain natural disasters are sometimes greater because governments, local authorities and citizens do not take adequate precautions. in the case of man-made disasters, compliance with and optimisation of safety rules are of crucial importance for disaster prevention purposes. prevention is the most important factor in protecting people and avoiding losses caused by unforeseen events. the eu therefore has a crucial role to play in creating a more responsible society with a sufficient focus on precautions and a culture of prevention that would help raise citizens' awareness of both natural and man-made disaster risks. member states should share best practices and experience to protect citizens from unforeseen events and establish a network for the exchange of information and agree on cross-border coordination and management.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the delegated regulation as it is important to ensure that the delegated regulation on the european partnership code of conduct for the european structural and investment funds enters into force as soon as possible, given the urgent need to apply this code of conduct to the ongoing preparation of the partnership agreements and programmes for the period 2014-2020.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims at an agreement between the european union and the swiss confederation to ensure more effective enforcement of competition law. switzerland is the eu's third largest economic partner and the second largest recipient of foreign direct investment. the two economies are closely interlinked and cross-border trade is affected by a number of distortions of competition. following the conclusion of cooperation agreements with the usa, canada, japan and south korea on competition issues, the european commission agreed on the first so-called second generation agreement with switzerland. unlike previous agreements, this agreement also provides for the exchange of evidence obtained by competition authorities in the course of the same case, which will help to ensure more effective enforcement of competition law.
in writing. - i agreed to the proposal as it provides for the exchange of evidence obtained by competition authorities investigating the same case and will help to ensure more effective enforcement of competition law. this is a ground-breaking eu-swiss agreement. switzerland is the eu's third largest economic partner and the second largest recipient of foreign direct investment. the two economies are closely interlinked and cross-border trade is affected by a number of distortions of competition. the establishment of similar practical rules in the eu and switzerland will facilitate the implementation of the agreement. in a world of globalised companies and global value chains, distortions of competition, such as the abuse of a dominant market position or cartel activity, are also considered to be non-tariff barriers to trade. in this context, it is essential that greater efforts are made to promote international cooperation and to combat these distortions of competition in the regulation of trade and foreign investment. wto competition rules are no longer enough.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution, which aims to assess the benefits of european union cooperation agreements in the field of competition policy. the purpose of the cooperation agreements is to implement the competition rules in an increasingly globalised economic activity in which cartels operate on a cross-border basis. the prosecution and punishment of serious transnational crime by international cartels under these agreements is more effective. i support calls for the establishment of secure mechanisms for the use and transmission of confidential information. the commission should promote more actively the implementation of competition policy at international level, in particular in multilateral fora such as the wto, the international competition network (icn) and the organisation for economic cooperation and development (oecd). i also welcome the 2013 memorandum of understanding with india on cooperation in the field of competition policy implementation activities and the ongoing negotiations on the second generation agreement with canada and the free trade agreement with japan on cooperation in the field of competition.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this proposal, cooperation agreements aimed at implementing competition rules in an increasingly globalised economic activity where cartels operate on a cross-border scale and mergers often involve several jurisdictions are very important and i hope that the prosecution and punishment of international cartels for serious cross-border crime will be more effective under this agreement. the commission should actively promote the implementation of competition policy at international level, in particular in multilateral fora such as the world trade organisation (wto), the international competition network (ict) and the organisation for economic cooperation and development (oecd). this would be the most effective form of cooperation, as investigations often have to be carried out in a number of jurisdictions where not all parties have bilateral agreements or where the terms of those agreements differ. the oecd and the octs should develop instruments to promote international cooperation and keep guidelines of good practice up to date.
in writing. - i voted for this motion, which seeks to ratify the arms trade treaty. unlike wmd and mines, the trade in conventional weapons is not subject to any legally binding global measure. the arms trade treaty is intended to fill this gap. the arms trade treaty was adopted in 2013 by a un assembly resolution. three countries voted against the adoption of the treaty (north korea, iran and syria) and 22 abstained (including china, india and russia). the treaty sets the standard for regulating international trade in conventional arms and, to some extent, ammunition, parts and components. i support calls on the commission to develop codes of conduct for private entities involved in the trade in military goods in line with the un guiding principles on business and human rights. at the same time, member states should commit themselves to ensuring transparency and public disclosure of their annual arms trade reports. it is essential that the eu and the member states provide support to third countries that need it to fulfil their obligations under the treaty.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal because, unlike wmd and landmines, the trade in conventional weapons is not covered by any legally binding global measure. the arms trade treaty is intended to fill this gap. after lengthy negotiations, the arms trade treaty was adopted on 2 april 2013 by a resolution of the united nations general assembly. while the existing export regulations in europe for conventional arms are used as a basis for un negotiations as best practice, the existing regulations in europe set much higher standards and have a wider scope than the att. rapid ratification of the treaty in all eu member states will send a signal to third countries that have not yet ratified the treaty, such as the united states. in order to ensure the swift and effective implementation of the treaty, the full-fledged arms trade treaty secretariat should facilitate cooperation between states in the areas of institutional capacity building, legal advice, technical, material and financial assistance. the european union cannot sign and ratify the arms trade treaty, as only member states can be parties to the united nations treaties. however, the council has authorised the commission to negotiate certain provisions of the att which fall within the exclusive competence of the union, i.e. fall within the scope of trade policy. the purpose of this proposal for a council decision is therefore to authorise the member states to ratify the treaty in respect of matters falling within the exclusive competence of the union.
in writing. - i voted for this motion, which seeks to ratify the arms trade treaty. unlike wmd and mines, the trade in conventional weapons is not subject to any legally binding global measure. the arms trade treaty is intended to fill this gap. the arms trade treaty was adopted in 2013 by a un assembly resolution. three countries voted against the adoption of the treaty (north korea, iran and syria) and 22 abstained (including china, india and russia). the treaty sets the standard for regulating international trade in conventional arms and, to some extent, ammunition, parts and components. i support calls on the commission to develop codes of conduct for private entities involved in the trade in military goods in line with the un guiding principles on business and human rights. at the same time, member states should commit themselves to ensuring transparency and public disclosure of their annual arms trade reports. it is essential that the eu and the member states provide support to third countries that need it to fulfil their obligations under the treaty.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i agree that the european union needs effective anti-dumping measures. this issue is also of great relevance to lithuania, as it is about ensuring fair competition on the eu market. at present, eu producers often have to compete with much cheaper products imported from countries with much lower energy prices and labour standards. international trade brings many benefits, but it should not encourage a race to save more at the expense of labor or conservation. i believe that the anti-subsidy and anti-dumping regulation adopted by parliament will help to defend eu industrial policy and eu workers' rights and will allow for a quick and effective response to complaints from eu companies about unfair competition from third countries. the european parliament has also called for the eu to be more transparent in its approach to the issue of asylum. the wto provisions must be implemented, but additional, stricter commitments must be undertaken with great caution in the face of a crisis.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to bring regulation no 1224/2009 establishing a community control system for ensuring compliance with the rules of the common fisheries policy into line with the treaty of lisbon.
in writing. - i voted in favour, as the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon on 1 december 2009 and the re-allocation of powers under it require legal harmonisation of eu legislation and therefore a redistribution of powers granted to the commission under the former comitology procedure is necessary.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to align the nine product directives with the new legal framework of the ntas. the new legislative framework creates a simplified regulatory environment for products and facilitates a more consistent implementation of technical standards this will help improve the functioning of the single market by ensuring a level playing field between non-compliant products and economic operators. the alignment of the nine product directives with the nacs will increase confidence among both producers and consumers. the obligations of economic operators will be more clearly defined and the authorities of the member states will be given more effective means to carry out market surveillance, thus reducing the number of non-compliant and unsafe products on the market. i agree with the proposals made to ensure that instructions, safety information and labelling are reliable, understandable and transparent. it is essential to modernise the current procedures by allowing the submission of eu declarations of conformity not only in paper format but also in electronic form and it is also proposed to reduce the bureaucratic burden on economic operators in relation to their identification. it is important to establish an obligation for member states to provide the ec with annual information on their market surveillance activities and to encourage them to allocate sufficient funds to their market surveillance authorities.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to align the nine product directives with the new legal framework of the ntas. the new legislative framework creates a simplified regulatory environment for products and facilitates a more consistent implementation of technical standards this will help improve the functioning of the single market by ensuring a level playing field between non-compliant products and economic operators. the alignment of the nine product directives with the nacs will increase confidence among both producers and consumers. the obligations of economic operators will be more clearly defined and the authorities of the member states will be given more effective means to carry out market surveillance, thus reducing the number of non-compliant and unsafe products on the market. i agree with the proposals made to ensure that instructions, safety information and labelling are reliable, understandable and transparent. it is essential to modernise the current procedures by allowing the submission of eu declarations of conformity not only in paper format but also in electronic form and it is also proposed to reduce the bureaucratic burden on economic operators in relation to their identification. it is important to establish an obligation for member states to provide the ec with annual information on their market surveillance activities and to encourage them to allocate sufficient funds to their market surveillance authorities.
in writing. - i supported the amendment of the harmonisation of the laws of the member states relating to equipment and protective systems in potentially explosive atmospheres, as the harmonisation of the nine product directives with the new regulatory framework (ner) is an important step towards completing the eu single market. the new legal framework creates a simplified regulatory environment for products and facilitates a more consistent implementation of technical standards this will help to improve the functioning of the single market by ensuring a uniform approach to non-compliant products and economic operators, as well as a uniform assessment of notified bodies across the eu market. the harmonisation of the nine product directives with the nsis will increase confidence among both producers and consumers by clarifying the obligations of economic operators and providing member states' authorities with more effective means of market surveillance, thus reducing the number of non-compliant and unsafe products on the market. the commission's proposals in the harmonisation package are based on extensive consultation with stakeholders, including several hundred smes, and their experience with the commodity package.
in writing. - ensuring consumer rights is one of the eu's key priorities. the 2004 air passenger rights regulation was one of the successful examples of eu legislation. however, in recent years, with the increase in passenger traffic and the liberalisation of the european air market, the shortcomings of the 2004 regulation have become apparent. they relate to the uneven application of the rules in the various member states, which arises from the 'grey areas' contained in the regulation. i believe that the new text adopted by parliament will help to define more clearly the rights and obligations of passengers and airlines. from now on, airlines will only be able to refuse compensation to passengers for delayed or cancelled flights in the cases specified in the regulation. the law also aims to ensure that airlines provide clearer information to passengers about the price of tickets, rather than adding additional services such as customer service at the last moment. the new rules will also harmonise the hand luggage requirements of airlines and prevent passengers from being denied re-entry on return flights if they have missed a flight ahead.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to modernise the european rules on the insolvency of crossborder companies. each year, 50,000 eu companies become liable in crossborder bankruptcy cases. the provisions of european bankruptcy law are laid down in regulation (ec) no 1346/2000 on bankruptcy proceedings. the regulation lays down rules on jurisdiction, recognition and the determination of the applicable law and provides for the coordination of the examination of bankruptcy cases brought in several member states. the adoption of the new rules will make cross-border bankruptcy proceedings more efficient and effective. the proposal aims to restructure firms in difficulty and to create a favourable business environment. clear rules on jurisdiction will be established and close cooperation between the courts dealing with bankruptcy cases in different member states will be ensured where the debtor is subject to several bankruptcy proceedings. creditors will be better informed as member states are obliged to publish key decisions, such as those on the opening of bankruptcy proceedings. i support the proposals for a european union register to enable creditors and courts to determine whether bankruptcy proceedings have been opened in another member state. the register should be integrated into the european e-justice portal. it is also important to designate a coordinator who will not only identify and develop recommendations for a flexible bankruptcy coordination procedure but also provide a group coordination plan that identifies, describes and recommends the implementation of a comprehensive set of measures necessary to address the difficulties in the event of bankruptcy of group members.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal because it aims to modernise eu bankruptcy law, focusing not only on liquidation but also on giving companies a second chance. this is an important initiative on insolvency proceedings under eu company law. the report also notes that the list of areas of insolvency law where it is worthwhile and possible to harmonise legislationis still relevant today. it cannot be ignored that 'differences in national insolvency laws give rise to competitive advantages or disadvantages and difficulties for undertakings operating in more than one country and may impede the successful restructuring of insolvent companies'. the idea of creating an eu register to enable creditors and courts to identify whether bankruptcy proceedings have been opened in another member state is welcomed. the register should be integrated into the european e-justice portal. the register should contain all relevant information on cross-border insolvency proceedings opened. such a register is particularly important in order to increase publicity and transparency. it also lays down the minimum criteria that an undertaking given by the insolvency practitioner to local creditors must meet in order to be enforceable and binding. it is also clarified that local creditors may challenge any decision to postpone or refuse to bring a secondary action.
the situation in ukraine, madam president, ladies and gentlemen, requires that we take the problem seriously and that we assess it properly. first of all, it is worth saying that we, the european union, have contributed to the tense situation in this country by not doing all the homework properly. it should also be acknowledged that ukraine itself did not do its homework in such a way that the partnership discussions ended with the signing of the agreement. today, neither sanctions nor visits to kiev by politicians will solve this problem. the european union is committed to the principle of subsidiarity and the principle of subsidiarity must be respected. but the primary objective today is to convince all parties to the conflict to stop provocations and violence, arrests of persons and seizures of buildings. this should be an indisputable condition, the implementation of which would allow the preparation of the referendum and the new elections, in which the osce could carry out an observer mission.
mr president, what is it that needs to be proposed for ukraine by the more efficient european bodies, including this house? an interim government should be established until elections can be held at the earliest possible date, and the first change should be to replace the current minister for the interior with a person able to undertake the restructuring and reinstructing of the berkut special unit to end its hostility towards, and fascist-type hatred of, civilian protesters against the current government. a list of berkut senior officers responsible for atrocities such as torture and killings should be in preparation now, in readiness for targeted european sanctions. also, if possible, agreements with moldova and georgia must be reached during the sochi games – and not after them when mr putin will have his hands free for even greater destruction.
we are re-examining the situation in ukraine, because we can no longer be blind and create for what is happening in our neighbour. it was a long time, though. they may not be blind and deaf, but they're not inherently indifferent. it took the sacrifices of the vilnius summit and euromaidan, the sos signals from ukraine, for the whole of the european union and ourselves, the european parliament, to fully appreciate both the essence of russian policy and objectives, and the complexity of the economic situation in ukraine, and the high price that eastern europeans have to pay for their rapprochement with the european union, with the democratic world. in this context, the slogan of a strategic partnership between russia and the eu based on shared values sounds like a joke. if the eu and russia were to pursue a strategic partnership, there would be no need for euromaidan and ukrainian mothers would be crying for their dead children. ukraine is europe, my friends.
in writing. - i voted for this bill to strengthen the rights of airline passengers. today, only 2 percent of airline passengers who file complaints with airlines receive compensation. stronger consumer protection is necessary in this area. it is important that passenger rights do not exist only on paper. the new rules will improve complaints procedures and enforcement measures to ensure that passengers can effectively exercise their rights and obtain compensation. passengers stranded at airports will have better opportunities to receive information, assistance and be diverted to other routes. if the passenger's complaint is not answered within 2 months, it means that the air carrier accepts the compensation requested. baggage restrictions must be clearly indicated at ticket purchase and boarding. the aim is also to oblige carriers to take out insurance or to hold funds in special funds from which, in the event of bankruptcy, they would be reimbursed for tickets or paid for the return of passengers. at the same time, the supervision of air carriers by national and european authorities is being strengthened.
in writing. - the aviation industry has undergone major changes in recent years, with the increase in passenger numbers and flights in a liberalised european market. however, this broadly positive change is accompanied to some extent by unfair practices and a deterioration in the quality of services. carriers and national authorities are not fully and uniformly implementing the current regulation, creating confusion for both passengers and industry. in addition, passengers are not informed about their rights and are dissatisfied with the circumstances and costs involved in enforcing those rights. the figures show that in reality only a small proportion of passengers who would theoretically be entitled to benefits and compensation apply for or receive benefits. the most important factor is that the air carriers operating the flights do not automatically recognise the relevant passenger rights. customers feel insecure about the complexity of the process. many passengers are reluctant to take legal action because of the high costs involved. i supported the proposals which, taken as a whole, aim to strengthen passenger rights.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the future development of european climate and energy policy. i agree with the rapporteurs that the greatest challenge will be to achieve a successful balance between climate protection, affordable energy prices, security of supply and industrial competition. a recent impact assessment of the strategy published by the european commission shows that its implementation would create one million new jobs and significantly reduce the eu's dependence on imported energy sources. the €573 billion paid by eu states in 2011 for the import of fossil fuel resources could be used to stimulate the production of green energy and energy saving mechanisms. it is important to note that the lithuanian population, like the rest of europe, has clearly expressed its support for renewable energy sources and energy efficiency. in the latest eurobarometer survey in lithuania, 53% of respondents believe that renewable energy sources should be given priority, with 25% giving priority to improving energy efficiency. only 15% would prefer nuclear energy and 10% would prefer fossil fuels.
in writing. - i voted for the resolution on ukraine, which calls on the authorities to restore the 2004 constitution, restoring a semi-presidential or parliamentary republic, reforming the electoral law, prosecuting those responsible for the violence in the maidan, and continuing to consider sanctions against ukrainian officials who used force against peaceful protesters. ukraine is a deeply divided country - ethnically, linguistically, and economically. the only way to reduce unrest is through effective dialogue between the authorities, the opposition and civil society. ukraine must resolve this conflict on its own, its fate will not be decided in brussels, moscow or even more so in washington. i agree with the view that the european union can help to bring the situation in kiev under control more quickly only by working together, not by confronting russia. europe should not put ukraine in a position of either the eu or russia.
in writing. - this is an unusual summit in eu-russia relations, lasting only 3 hours. russia is a difficult strategic partner for the eu, but we see the direction we need to go. president putin's proposal to negotiate a new cooperation agreement and a free trade area from lisbon to vladivostok is to be welcomed. the first step is to build trust between brussels and moscow. i voted in favour of this resolution, which stresses that moscow's political and economic pressure on the eu's and russia's neighbours is unacceptable. russia joined the wto in 2012, but it has not fulfilled all its obligations. russia has adopted a number of protectionist measures in the eurasian customs union. the resolution also highlights the persistent gaps in human rights. i agree that it is important to promote dialogue between the eu and russia in the areas of culture, heritage and history, and to promote exchanges and mobility of students, teachers, lecturers and researchers in order to facilitate people-to-people contacts. this would create a visible, tangible and sustainable partnership, which is a community of values created in the long term.
as we look to the new term, we should take a closer look at the past term, and we can celebrate the achievements, but it wasn't as good as we hoped, and we have to admit that. many of the good things written in directives, resolutions and proposals have remained there, unfulfilled in real life. we have an agreement on growth and jobs, but unemployment has not gone up very much, especially among young people. i think the european commission has not done enough to turn this agreement from words into flesh. investment, growth - that's the way of the future. on the other hand, when we talk about the new ep semester, we must fundamentally decide on the future of europe itself: how and which way europe should turn. i believe that only democratic, free, equal and strong national states are the foundation of a strong european union. on the economic side, poverty and social exclusion must be reduced, and i would suggest that we consider establishing a uniform minimum income in the eu countries, which should be in line with the current average of the community countries. although that is what should be recommended to the states.
unemployment in the european union remains high, especially among young people, and we need to take action as soon as possible, for example by concluding a european pact for youth employment, which would start implementing the measures long agreed. in addition, additional funds and new measures should be allocated to tackle youth unemployment by reducing the number of young people who are not in employment, education or work. i would also like to urge the member states to implement the youth guarantee as soon as possible, which must be translated from words into action. alongside the problems of youth unemployment, we cannot forget the elderly, especially when we raise the retirement age, and member states must therefore ensure that older workers also have access to employment, by providing lifelong learning, working conditions and adequate wages. the commission and the member states must ensure that people have access to necessary and adequate social protection, health and social services, and should increase the participation of vulnerable groups in the labour market and reduce poverty, especially child poverty.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. since 2009, the financial crisis and the economic downturn have seriously undermined financial stability and economic growth in the european union as a whole, and in particular in the member states receiving external assistance. macroeconomic adjustment programmes have been developed for these countries in coordination with the european commission, initially implemented in seven member states (cyprus, greece, hungary, ireland, latvia, portugal and romania) and currently still providing financial assistance to cyprus, greece, ireland and portugal. the capacity of these member states to invest in both the public and private sectors has declined and it has become more difficult to use the resources available for growth and competitiveness. for these reasons, it is necessary to promote the facilitation of simplified management of european union funds in order to stimulate and accelerate investment in the member states receiving financial support and the implementation of projects necessary for social and economic recovery and the development of the sector. the aim of this commission proposal to amend regulation (ec) no 1198/2006 is to help those member states currently receiving financial support and those that could benefit from adjustment programmes to continue to benefit from financial instruments for the implementation of their projects under the fisheries sector policy.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it supports the amendments needed to ensure that eu funds can continue to reach countries in financial and economic difficulty. these member states are still subject to strict budgetary constraints, which create liquidity problems and make it more difficult to implement the operational programmes, in this case the operational programmes to absorb the european fisheries fund. the activity of the fisheries sector may therefore be affected and there may be a risk of a downturn. the main amendment made by this document is to extend the continuity of the increased funding provided for during the crisis without changing the appropriations allocated.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it gives parliament its consent to the necessary procedural changes in the european union's legislation relating to the use of the regulatory procedure with scrutiny. the regulatory procedure with scrutiny has been replaced by the so-called delegated acts in the treaty of lisbon, which amend or supplement non-essential acts in the case of delegated acts, the legislator empowers the commission to adopt acts of a legislative nature. however, the regulatory procedure with scrutiny shall continue to apply for the adoption of measures based on the legislation in force. the document adopted today examined whether the previously existing regulatory procedure with scrutiny was justified in specific cases.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. the objective of this proposal is to reduce co2 emissions from new vehicles. the emissions target for the new car fleet is 160 g co2/km from 2006, 130 g co2/km from 2015 and 95 g co2/km from 2020. i believe that it was necessary to provide clarity and predictability for the transport sector by setting specific and defined objectives, giving the sector greater certainty and clear legal regulation in planning long-term investment in sustainable technologies and ensuring competitiveness. in order to allow the automotive industry to make long-term investments and innovate, a target for 2025 should be set. it should be based on the emissions that need to be reduced in line with the union's long-term climate change objectives and should accelerate the development of cost-effective technologies for reducing co2 emissions from passenger cars. i welcome the commission's report and its proposal for standards that are consistent with the union's long-term climate change objectives for 2050 in a cost-effective manner and that ensure continued leadership of the european union in fuel efficiency and co2 emissions.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it supports the regulation setting out the ways in which the target of reducing co2 emissions from new passenger cars by 2020 can be achieved. this objective will be achieved by the application of modern drive concepts. these measures will result in higher costs for the larger premium car manufacturers than for the smaller car manufacturers. however, as the most advanced technologies are generally first introduced in larger cars, this regulation proposes a realistic incentive framework to encourage the development and use of new, environmentally friendly drive concepts.
in writing. - i am pleased that the european parliament has finally adopted a coordinated position on co2 emissions from new cars. it is, of course, regrettable that the negotiations on this agreement have taken too long, have not always been very transparent and have resulted in certain concessions that are not in the interests of the environment. however, i welcome the agreement itself, as the new standards, which will come into force in less than 10 years, will allow for further reductions in air pollution from passenger cars.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution, which aims to simplify the conditions for obtaining trade marks and to ensure more effective protection of them. eu trade mark registration systems should become cheaper, faster, more reliable and more predictable. this would improve the conditions for companies to innovate and benefit from more effective protection of trademarks against counterfeiting, including counterfeit goods transported across the eu. the community trade mark system and the office for harmonization in the internal market (ohim) have been in operation for more than 15 years and it is therefore appropriate to review the existing rules and improve the system in the light of today's realities.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it supports the improvement of the european trade mark system. the community trade mark system and the office for harmonization in the internal market have been in place for more than 15 years, and it is therefore appropriate to review the existing rules in order to improve the very successful system. the current review implies that changes in the governance of the office for harmonization in the internal market will be necessary in order to continue to ensure independence, user-friendliness and competence. some aspects of the management of the agency will be improved, with clarifications on definitions, cooperation with member states, fees for the eu trade mark system and the use of revenue generated by them.
in writing. - i agree with the position that the development of the internal market requires the improvement of the legislation relating to it. uniform and uniform protection of intellectual property throughout the eu is an important element of such improvement. however, i would point out that the new regulatory provisions must also ensure a balance between the protection of intellectual property and access to it.
in writing. - the role of trademarks in terms of market success and commercial value is enormous; the importance of trademarks to competition and eu business is crucial. with the increase in the role of the community trademark, eu legislation should be improved as well. in order to make eu businesses even more competitive, and foster innovation and economic growth all over the eu, the community trademark system should be modernised while the inconsistencies within the existing regulatory framework have to be reduced. a set of measures proposed in the mentioned proposal for a regulation aim to lower costs and increase the speed, predictability and security of the legal system. such improvements in the trademark system can not only create many benefits for eu businesses but will make the functioning of the euʼs internal market more efficient. i welcome this proposal aimed at making the legal framework for the community trademark more harmonised and the trademark system itself more efficient and accessible for eu businesses. i believe that when all the sets of measures have been applied, each member state, including lithuania, will be able to benefit from this modernised legal framework.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution, which aims to strengthen the fight against the proceeds of crime and to introduce new measures to that end. the eu is making huge profits from organised crime. for example, it is estimated that the eu generates €100 billion a year from the sale of illicit drugs. while a large proportion of this illicitly obtained money is legalised and reinvested in the legal economy, less than 1% of the proceeds of crime are currently frozen and confiscated. the commission has proposed new rules to make the large-scale confiscation of proceeds of crime and other property more effective the nca will be able to confiscate assets transferred to third parties more effectively, criminal assets will be easier to confiscate even in cases where the suspect is in hiding, and the possibility for competent authorities to temporarily freeze assets that may disappear if no action is taken will be ensured.
in writing. - i voted for this report because it was the report parliament adopted in favour of the directive on the freezing and confiscation of the proceeds of crime in the european union. the directive lays down minimum rules for member states on the freezing and confiscation of criminal assets, by means of direct seizure, confiscation of property of appropriate value, extended seizure, seizure not based on an indictment and seizure from third parties. the adoption of such minimum rules will harmonise the freezing and confiscation procedures in the member states, thus contributing to the strengthening of mutual trust and facilitating cross-border cooperation. it will also be a step forward in strengthening the mutual recognition of freezing and confiscation orders, which is an important aspect of the fight against transnational serious and organised crime in the european union.
in writing. - the eu has had some success in fighting organised crime, but there are a number of problems with the transfer of illicitly acquired assets to third parties, i.e. most of the proceeds of crime that are frozen or confiscated are not passed on to third parties and are reused for organised crime. in supporting this report, i hope that the proposals it contains will not only contribute to the fight against organised crime, but also facilitate cooperation between member states. the communication also provides for measures to enable member states to apply freezing and confiscation procedures to proceeds of crime also in cases where assets are acquired illegally in third countries and attempts are made to conceal or legalise those assets in member states.
in writing. - the main objective of the proposal to amend directive 2008/95/ec of the european parliament and of the council of 22 october 2008 on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to trade marks and of the related regulation, which forms part of the same package, is to harmonise trade mark registration systems in all eu member states so that they are more efficient, cheaper, simpler, faster, more predictable and provide greater legal certainty. this could greatly accelerate innovation and economic growth. the directive, which harmonises certain aspects of the trade mark law of the member states of the european union, has been in force for more than 20 years. the current review is an opportunity to learn from best practice and further strengthen the harmonisation of the substantive trade mark law and procedures applied by national trade mark offices.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it supports the improvement of the directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to trade marks. this directive has been in force for more than 20 years. the current review is an opportunity to learn from best practice and further strengthen the harmonisation of the substantive trade mark law and procedures applied by national trade mark offices.
in writing. - as the european union develops its legal framework for the protection of intellectual property, it is inevitable that we will have to adapt the substantive law applicable in the member states. however, such improvements in the harmonisation of the law must be proportionate and must not be used as a pretext for restricting citizens' access to intellectual property.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, which aims to increase the efficiency of the eu law enforcement agency europol in collecting and analysing information and sharing the results of that analysis with the un. the proposal also provides for increased accountability of europol to the european and national parliaments and for stricter protection of personal data, for mandatory reporting to europol by the nsa and for targeted financial support for investigations. europol shall provide annual reports on the quantity and quality of data provided by the nsas. the data processing structure will be fundamentally changed. the european data protection supervisor shall be responsible for the external data protection supervision of the data processed by europol. this regulation merges europol and cepol into a single agency, to be located at europol's headquarters in the hague, in order to avoid duplication of the support activities of the two agencies.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it supports the improvement of the european police office (europol) and resolves the debate in the eu over the merger of europol and the european police college by leaving them as separate agencies. the european police office was established in 1995, but since 2009 the council, representing the member states, has been asking for its powers to be extended to enable it to perform more effectively the tasks assigned to it in the prevention of cross-border crime and the fight against transnational organised crime, which is on the increase in the eu. a 2013 europol assessment found that serious and organised crime is an increasingly dynamic and complex phenomenon in the eu, that the impact of globalisation on society and business is creating favourable conditions for the emergence of various new forms of criminal activity, that criminal networks are exploiting loopholes in the law, the internet and the conditions created by the economic crisis to obtain illicit profits with little risk. terrorism also remains one of the greatest threats to the security of the european union, as european society continues to suffer from terrorist attacks. for all these reasons, the improvement and expansion of the european police office was almost unanimously approved by the european parliament this week.
in writing. - europol is making a significant contribution to reducing organised crime, but the ways and means of organised crime are changing and improving, and we need to strengthen europol's powers to ensure the safety of eu citizens and to fight crime effectively. i support the measures envisaged in the communication to improve the governance of europol, to strengthen data protection standards, and to encourage member states to provide information to europol more effectively, while implementing the provisions of the lisbon treaty. the implementation of these changes will make europol more effective in the fight against organised crime.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, which aims to make the eu more attractive to foreign students and researchers. more than 200 000 foreign students and researchers take advantage of the opportunity to come to the eu on a temporary basis every year. the current rules for issuing student visas or residence permits are too complex and unclear, the process is long and uneven. the commission has proposed to facilitate the entry of students, researchers and other professionals from third countries to the eu to work there for more than three months. the new legislation will clearly set the time frame for national authorities to process applications, provide new opportunities for access to the labour market and facilitate movement between eu countries and procedural safeguards, in particular by setting a 60-day period for the authorities of the vt to take a decision on an application for a visa or residence permit. simpler and more flexible rules will increase the mobility of researchers, students and paid trainees within the eu. it will also facilitate access to the labour market by allowing students to work at least 20 hours a week to earn a living. both researchers and students will be allowed to stay in the country for an additional 12 months after the end of their studies or research period, under certain conditions, in order to find a job or set up their own business.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it gives parliament its support for the newly drawn up directive which will henceforth regulate the conditions and procedures for admitting third-country nationals for the purposes of research, studies, pupil exchanges, unpaid traineeships or voluntary service. this new wording of the directive also adds two new categories: paid trainees and au pair nannies. these two categories have not been included in the system governing their situation until now. their inclusion in this directive will help to prevent exploitation and work without documents.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution establishing the european voluntary humanitarian aid corps (eu aid volunteers). the objective of this corps is to express the union's humanitarian values and solidarity with people in need by promoting an effective and recognised european voluntary humanitarian aid corps, which contributes to strengthening the union's capacity to respond to humanitarian crises and helps to build the capacity and resilience of vulnerable or disaster-affected communities in third countries.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it supports the establishment of a european voluntary humanitarian aid corps. the objective of the establishment of this corps is to express the union's humanitarian values and solidarity with people in need by promoting an effective and recognisable european voluntary humanitarian aid corps, which contributes to strengthening the union's capacity to respond to humanitarian crises and helps to build the capacity and resilience of vulnerable or disaster-affected communities in third countries. eu aid volunteers will be deployed in humanitarian aid operations in third countries in the event of man-made crises or natural disasters, except in cases of armed conflict and internal disturbances.
in writing. - the eu has for many years been the world's largest humanitarian aid donor, contributing almost 50% of all humanitarian aid. i think that unpaid volunteer work in humanitarian missions is a very encouraging thing. this not only contributes to the resolution of humanitarian problems at crisis points, but also promotes solidarity among eu citizens with victims of disasters in third countries, based on humanity, common human compassion and a willingness to help through personal, real action.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. the eu fund for the poorest eu citizens will be extended until 2020 and will amount to €3.5 billion. the new programme, which will run from 2014 to 2020, will replace the food distribution programme, which has allowed the redistribution of surplus food stocks generated by agriculture. the new fund will support food and material assistance and also finance social inclusion measures to provide increased assistance to the eu's poorest citizens.
in writing. - the european union has set itself the target of reducing the number of people at risk of poverty and social exclusion by at least 20 million by 2020. however, the economic and financial crisis has led to an increase in poverty and social exclusion across the union. in 2011, almost 120 million europeans - an increase of six million in two years - were at risk of poverty or social exclusion, and now account for almost a quarter of the total population. one of the main signs of material deprivation is the inability to obtain sufficient food of adequate quality. children are particularly sensitive to malnutrition and poor nutrition patterns can negatively affect brain development and learning ability and their future health. the fund will focus on people at risk of material deprivation and food shortages, in particular the homeless, children and households with children, as well as supporting social inclusion measures, tackling the most severe and severe forms of deprivation, and strengthening existing and planned eu efforts in these areas.
in writing. - i agree with this report and i am glad that we have managed to reach a unanimous agreement to increase the operating budget of the fund by a full billion, i.e. to 3.5 billion for the years 2014-2020. this will help to combat poverty, and in particular child poverty. statistics from the world health organization show that as many as 43 million europeans cannot afford to eat meat, chicken or fish or even vegetarian substitutes every other day. this shows that the eu needs to tackle the problems of poverty in society by supporting vulnerable social groups with food, basic goods such as hygiene products, clothing, etc., and thus reduce social exclusion. i would also like to stress the importance of involving ngos in the work of the foundation, as they work indirectly with people who are suffering from poverty and social exclusion. the procedures for receiving food from the food fund will also be facilitated in the next financial period. i very much hope that the new programme will achieve its objectives.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution, which seeks to amend the technical regulation on the placing on the market and use of biocidal products. on 22 may 2012, the european parliament and the council adopted regulation (eu) no 528/2012 concerning the making available on the market and use of biocidal products. the regulation represented a major revision of the existing legislation on biocidal products by harmonising the rules for the placing on the market and use of biocidal products, while ensuring a high level of protection of human and animal health and the environment. since the adoption of the regulation, the ec has identified a number of technical errors and i therefore support the commission's proposal to make the necessary corrections to ensure the necessary legal clarity and certainty for the ngos, industry and the general public.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it supports the correction of technical errors and unintended consequences of the regulation on the placing of biocidal products on the market and their use adopted in 2012. the biocidal products regulation has represented an important and fundamental revision of the existing legislation on biocidal products by harmonising the rules for the placing on the market and use of biocidal products, while ensuring a high level of protection of human and animal health and the environment. it is therefore important to adopt this amending regulation in order to make the necessary corrections and adjustments as soon as possible, taking into account that it has been applicable since 1 september 2013.
in writing. - accurate scientific data on the environmental impact of regulated products and technologies is one of the key factors determining the development of eu environmental policy. legislation adopted by the eu institutions must be based on scientific evidence and any errors in this must be regarded as a threat to the environment and human health. i therefore support the clarification of the legislation governing the use of biocides to correct the errors that have occurred.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it calls on the member states not to sacrifice the fight against and prevention of gender-based violence, at the expense of balanced budgets in the wake of the economic crisis. violence against women is a widespread violation of human rights and a form of gender discrimination. it is a major cause of gender equality, as it prevents women from participating fully in economic, social, political and cultural life. women who experience violence suffer from severe psychological and physical trauma over a long period of time. in this report, parliament called on the commission to submit a proposal for a regulation on measures to promote and support action by member states in the field of prevention of gender-based violence and also called on the member states to develop measures to prevent and combat gender-based violence against women and girls.
in writing. - every day, women and girls are beaten, sexually abused, just because they are girls, women. this is not only happening outside the european union, but unfortunately also in the eu countries. statistics show that 45 percent of women report having experienced physical violence, 10 percent sexual violence, and 15 percent domestic violence. seven women die every day because of it. this is unacceptable. the european parliament has repeatedly asked the european commission to develop an eu-wide strategy to prevent and combat violence against women. no such strategy has been developed so far. i voted in favour of this report because it calls for the eu to establish a legal basis on this issue. i also agree that member states need to exchange information, to take action on the prevention plan. the commission could set up a service for the prevention of gender-based violence, declare a year for the elimination of violence against women. we call on the commission to submit a report on violence against women by the end of this year.
in writing. - women must not be beaten, violence against women must not be perpetrated - this is a violation of human rights. i agree with this report. as many as 25% of women in the eu suffer from physical violence. we should not leave the hands of the violent until all the countries have ratified the istanbul convention. we must fight this terrible phenomenon in our lives. unfortunately, violence against women is not considered a problem in some parts of society. it is therefore necessary to change the mentality of society to turn to women and their families who suffer violence. the victims of trafficking in human beings should also be kept in mind they are also subject to violence. we need to invest in prevention measures that can help curb violence. i would like to congratulate my colleague, mrs parvanov, on her excellent report.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. it aims to summarise the work done in the eu institutions at administrative and political level over the past four years on delegated and implementing acts, with particular attention to the activities of the legislative institutions and the commission, and to prepare for the inclusion of these issues in the forthcoming review of the interinstitutional agreement on better law-making in 2003.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it seeks to review the application in practice of the new legislative procedures introduced by the treaty of lisbon and to provide practical guidance on the use of delegated and implementing acts. the high expectations expressed in the previous reports on the delegation of legislative powers and the implementing regulation have not been met to the extent expected. these measures were designed to further improve the scrutiny of secondary legislation by the legislative authorities and thus to increase the democratic legitimacy of such acts. they also aimed to ensure greater efficiency of legislation at the european union level and further simplification of the legislative process. the main objective of this report is to summarise the work done at administrative and political level in the eu institutions over the last four years on delegated and implementing acts, with particular attention to the activities of the legislative institutions and the commission, and to prepare for the future review of the interinstitutional agreement on better law-making.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution, which aims to assess the 2014 annual growth survey. real gdp growth in the euro area is gradually picking up again and is expected to reach 1,1% in 2014, with unemployment expected to decline and inflation to remain well below 2%. despite the optimistic forecasts, the commission acknowledges that even under the most optimistic scenario, most of the europe 2020 targets will not be achieved. i therefore support the european parliament's request to include in the specific recommendations for the eu and the eu as a whole, including the recommendations for economic adjustment programmes, the issue of not only fiscal consolidation but also structural reforms to promote real, sustainable and socially balanced growth, employment, increased competitiveness and increased convergence. the adoption of legislation on 'convergence guidelines' which would set a very limited number of targets for the most urgent reform measures for a given period is necessary, and parliament reiterates its call on the member states to ensure that national reform programmes are drawn up on the basis of the said convergence guidelines and verified by the commission.
in writing. - a year ago, some people thought that the euro would collapse and eventually the european union. today's situation proves those prophets wrong. eu countries are showing signs of economic recovery. latvia joined the euro area. without eu aid, greece, cyprus, ireland and portugal would have gone bankrupt and faced their greatest social challenges. however, national budgets should not be boosted at the expense of increasing social inequalities. the situation of unemployment, especially among young people, remains difficult in some eu countries. 35% of people in the eu live below the poverty line. this is primarily a consequence of austerity policies. it has recently emerged that 20 member states have reduced their expenditure on education. i voted in favour of this report because it calls for more than just austerity policies, but for investments that will ensure the economic growth of the eu countries and the implementation of sustainable reforms.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution, which assesses the employment and social aspects of the 2014 annual growth survey. i support the european parliament's demands to hold a meeting of euro group employment and social affairs ministers before the euro area summits, to make the submission of national employment and youth plans mandatory in the 2014 country-specific recommendations, to tackle poverty among the working population and to implement labour market policy measures aimed at ensuring fair wages for workers.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, in which we expressed our position on the need to strengthen the social dimension of the economic and monetary union of the european union. 26.2 million europeans are currently unemployed, and almost one in four is at risk of poverty and social exclusion. on the other hand, social investment also has a positive impact on economic growth by helping people to adapt better to changes in the labour market, to work more productively, to ensure a healthy demand, etc. it was social protection policies, in particular unemployment benefits, support for the minimum income and progressive taxation, that helped to reduce the recession and stabilise labour markets and consumption during the economic crisis. it is therefore necessary to integrate employment and social policies more closely into the european economic semester, which culminates in country-specific recommendations. the european parliament welcomed the fact that the commission had for the first time presented a summary of the eu's employment and social policy performance in the context of the annual growth survey. we have called for the inclusion of additional indicators, in particular the level of child poverty, access to health care, homelessness and the decent work index, which would allow a more appropriate assessment of the social situation in the countries. the european parliament also called for more investment to promote sustainable growth and the creation of quality and sustainable jobs. and they must be used first and foremost to reduce youth unemployment.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, which aims to launch a thorough discussion and study of the situation of plant breeding in european and world agriculture. food demand is projected to increase by 70% over the next 30-40 years, posing major challenges for eu agriculture. i did not agree with the provisions that genetically modified varieties should be increased in agriculture and that the agricultural sector should be transformed by technology. i believe that traditional farming should be encouraged and that people should be encouraged to work in agriculture, exploiting the potential of this sector.
in writing. - i voted for this report because it contains parliament's recommendations on plant breeding. the plant breeding industry is one of the most important elements in the productivity, diversity, health and quality of agriculture, horticulture, food and feed production and our environment. in the future, high population growth will place tremendous demands on agriculture, particularly in terms of increasing productivity to meet the high growth in demand for food. the parliament therefore stressed the crucial importance of an efficient and competitive plant breeding industry to respond to future challenges such as future food needs and climate change. it is also important to develop species that are resilient to conditions likely to be encountered in the future, such as higher rainfall and estimated higher prevalence of plant diseases.
in writing. - meeting the world's and the eu's food needs is an important challenge. i agree with the provisions in the adopted document on the possibility of preserving the biodiversity of crops and on the need to devote more attention and resources to the selection of new varieties of peas. i also support the view that legal protection of plant species should not disproportionately restrict the distribution of breeding material to small and medium-sized farmers. i would also like to point out that the problem of food shortages should be tackled, wherever possible, by selecting plants and not by artificially modifying their genetic material.
for the efd group i would like to draw your attention to the fact that there is no consensus among member states on the 4th package proposed by the european commission, in particular on the scission of railway companies. i am convinced that the forced divestment of well-functioning integrated companies will reduce the efficiency of the railway sector, increase costs, increase the sector's dependence on the state budget and cause other negative consequences. i would like to emphasise that our region, which includes lithuania, is characterised by fierce competition for the transit of european union and cis freight between railway companies, freight terminals and seaports in estonia, latvia, lithuania, belarus, ukraine, russia and elsewhere. i believe that the institutions of the european union must concentrate on the essential issues of ensuring transparent, fair competition in the railway sector, increasing the efficiency of railway operations. it is very important to remember that european railway undertakings are not only competing with each other but also with railway undertakings in eastern third countries, which are, i stress, very strong economically and large integrated undertakings. unfortunately, some colleagues - representatives of the european commission and members of the european parliament - believe that the dismantling of integrated rail systems in the european union countries is not related to the interests of third countries and the threats they pose. we, the lithuanian representatives, see that the dismantling of the national railway company under the 4th package would open up wide possibilities for the cis countries to take control of the essential freight flows of the national railway company into their own hands and transfer the effect currently obtained by the national company profits from the provision of transport services to third countries.
in writing. in pursuing the integrated single market in the european union, we cannot bypass the transport sector, which has a particularly high potential to stimulate economic growth. i therefore support the commission's initiative to complete the removal of the remaining obstacles to improving the quality and efficiency of rail services. however, the principle of subsidiarity remains equally important for all of us, and it is therefore essential to maintain a balance between common rules, common regulation and what the member states can set for themselves in order to achieve the best model for their markets. the commission and parliament have a clear desire to establish a common regulatory framework, to ensure transparency in the allocation and use of funds and to maintain a high level of security. however, some of the proposed amendments to the 4th railway package go beyond the regulatory threshold. a single model of management of railway undertakings should not be imposed, as markets are different in size and each region has its own characteristics in terms of passenger and freight transport. we must create an international railway market, but we cannot violate the principle of subsidiarity, which is to allow the member states to decide for themselves what they can best do.
in writing. i am pleased that member states, including lithuania, have taken an active approach to implementing the youth guarantee adopted last year. at a time when up to 14 million young people under 29 are not in employment, education or training in europe, the swift and smooth implementation of the youth guarantee is more important than ever. the youth guarantee initiative is a set of measures, jointly funded by the eu and the member states, to help young people get into the labour market. this initiative will aim to ensure that the young person is offered a job, industrial placement, traineeship or further training within four months of graduation or registration in the labour market, taking into account individual needs and experience. i would like to support the call by my colleague for member states to pay particular attention to those young people who are economically and socially disadvantaged. this is the only way to prevent the transmission of poverty from generation to generation. i am pleased that the implementation plans prepared by lithuania for the youth guarantee initiative mainly include measures to provide vocational guidance for young people, partnerships between academic institutions and business organisations and employers, both in the formulation of training programmes and in the search for cooperation opportunities for young people to undertake industrial placements, internships, and a great deal of attention is paid to promoting youth entrepreneurship. i believe that all these measures will have concrete and tangible benefits and that we will avoid losing the opportunities that our young people provide.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution, which aims to maintain due regard for the functioning of the eu single market and to comment on the updated position on the content of the next annual growth review, on the priority actions at national and eu level, and on the recent efforts of the commission on a number of single market governance measures. the commission communication of 8 june 2012 on better governance of the single market calls for a renewed commitment to ensure that the single market contributes effectively to economic growth and that the tangible results are felt by eu citizens, consumers and businesses. this call was reiterated in the 2013 annual growth survey and the accompanying 2013 state of single market integration report. the coordination of the priorities of the single market in the european semester should be achieved through a deeper democratic process, with greater involvement of national parliaments, respect for the eu's exclusive rights and sufficient scope for the social partners and all other stakeholders. better protection of citizens' rights - both for consumers and workers - is essential to enhance confidence in the single market and to promote responsible consumer behaviour.
in writing. - i voted for this report because it sets out parliament's recommendations on the governance of the single market in the context of the european semester 2014. parliament called on the commission to strengthen the governance of the single market by establishing an annual cycle of governance of the single market, which would include a summary of the internal market performance, an annual report on the integration of the single market as part of the annual growth review, recommendations from the european council to the member states, national action plans to implement the single market guidelines and country-specific recommendations. parliament agreed with the commission that the services, financial services, transport, energy and digital market sectors remained crucial to the full integration of the single market. however, it considers that a renewed implementation of a coherent and integrated industrial policy is necessary to restore growth. parliament also noted that these actions should include strengthening the promotion of citizens' rights, including consumer and workers' rights, protection and a competitive model based on knowledge and innovation. at eu level, investment, research and technological development and support for higher education should be promoted more effectively.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to assess the 7th and 8th progress reports on economic, social and territorial cohesion. the reports from the member states provide an overview of the social and economic challenges they face and the implementation of programmes financed by the european union. some member states are lagging far behind in areas such as innovation, research and technological development, it services and broadband, energy and capacity building. the 2007-13 programmes have robust mechanisms for controlling cash flow and use, but the instruments for setting, monitoring and evaluating targets are weaker. the use of funds is therefore a strong point in the reports, but they have difficulty in presenting quantitative information on progress towards the objectives in a convincing way. i agree with the suggestions made that the european commission and the member states should make more full use of monitoring and evaluation tools (increased focus on results, selection of performance indicators specific to programmes and a clear performance framework) in order to increase transparency of reporting, quality of programming and its implementation.
in writing. - i voted for this report because it is a contribution by parliament to the evaluation of cohesion policy in the past. cohesion policy is the main mechanism for implementing the eu strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth europe 2020 and it is therefore necessary to assess the achievement of the objectives of the previous programming period (2007-2013). this is particularly important as this period coincided with the economic, financial and social crisis, and it is therefore necessary to analyse how cohesion policy and the funds have helped to combat the crisis and how they have so far contributed to boosting economic growth. the role of cohesion policy continues to grow as a result of fiscal consolidation in many less developed member states and regions, cohesion funding accounts for more than half of their public investment. this is why the new cohesion policy framework 2014-2020[n] must focus on the need to focus investment at regional and local level on key areas such as job creation, smes, employment (in particular youth employment), labour mobility, training and education, research, technological development and innovation.
in writing. - eu cohesion policy 2007-13 and the lessons learned from past mistakes must serve as a basis for the implementation of the cohesion policy in the new financial perspective. we have to use the funds as efficiently as possible, because the problems are increasing and the funds, unfortunately, are not. i therefore call for funds to be directed first and foremost to our own future: to developing the skills of young people and reducing unemployment by creating and promoting new jobs for young people. it is the younger generation that will have to ensure that eu social policy is implemented in the future.
in writing. - the 7th and 8th progress reports on the eu cohesion policy and the strategic report 2013 on programme implementation 2007-2013 tackle the issue of regional development and the best ways for it to increase cohesion and economic growth within europe and achieve sustainability. these reports also seek ways to improve cohesion policy while creating more jobs and generating growth opportunities at local and regional level. one such means of improvement is investment at regional and local level in areas such as job creation, smes, training and education. another way, as is stated in the reports, is by ensuring efficiency and synergies between the eu budget and the national budgets and the reinforcement of the territorial dimension of the governance system of cohesion policy. i welcome the importance of this report for the future of cohesion policy and i believe that all these steps are vital for achieving its best application. i also believe that lithuania can contribute to these objectives by improving reporting systems, better introduction of indicators and better use of the monitoring and evaluation tools available in the context of the current legislative framework.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to promote the development of the outermost regions. the proposal aims to open up new areas of investment policy in the outermost regions and to create opportunities for their sustainable development. the aim is to facilitate the access of the outermost regions to the various union funds. i agree that the european union's policy, inter alia, through specific fiscal and customs measures, should contribute to the economic development of the outermost regions and to job creation. in the context of the implementation of the 'horizon 2020' programme, the 'energy 2020' strategy, the life+ and erasmus programmes, the trans-european energy, transport and telecommunications networks, the outermost regions should no longer be separated from the priorities and objectives of the programmes. it is important to take into account the geographical, economic and climatic particularities of the outermost regions when implementing the common agricultural policy, the common fisheries policy and the internal market and when laying down the rules for their functioning. in the implementation of the union's trade, external and development policies, the overseas regions should be as important as the rest of the eu.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it is a contribution by parliament to the debate on the renewal of regional cohesion policy. the aim of this parliament's report is to propose a different approach to the vision that has been set out and is now coming to fruition, so that investment in the outermost regions can be extended to new areas and can be developed in a sustainable way. the communication calls not only for the benefits of the union's overseas regions to be welcomed and recognised, but also for them to be exploited in practice. in the context of the implementation of the 'horizon 2020' programme, the 'energy 2020' strategy, the life+ and erasmus programmes, the trans-european energy, transport and telecommunications networks, it is proposed that the outermost regions should no longer be separated from priorities and objectives. it is noted that the geographical, economic and climatic particularities of the outermost regions will have to be taken into account in the future in the implementation of the common agricultural policy, the common fisheries policy, the internal market and the rules for their functioning. without the cap, the cap and the internal market, the outermost regions will not be able to integrate sustainably and in a coherent manner into the european union.
in writing. - the outermost regions are a strong asset for the eu. the support of the outermost regions by the eu can be beneficial for the whole eu as it can create a basis for overcoming the challenges that the eu is facing now in terms of sustainability and regional development. the outermost regions open many perspectives to the eu and contain a lot of potential for increasing cohesion and economic growth throughout the eu. that is why the proposed set of measures aimed at creating synergies between the european structural and investment and other european union programmes is needed. such synergies can unveil the potential of the outermost regions and can open up many opportunities for them. i welcome this report and its importance for the development of the outermost regions. many issues mentioned in the report are also relevant for lithuania. synergies and international cooperation have to be promoted in order to diminish the substantial economic and social disparities between the regions. long-term investment should be encouraged and investment promoted in order to ensure that the outermost regions become regions of excellence. in that case the eu will be able to benefit from it as a whole.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to present an evaluation of the union's financial performance. the budgetary discharge instrument has been supplemented by a new instrument, the performance-based evaluation of the union's finances. the commission shall prepare an annual report in this respect. this evaluation report focuses on the financial results. this change will facilitate the transition from activity-based to results-based budgeting. the 2011 communication only summarises the evaluations of the various programmes and periods and does not provide a comprehensive assessment of the results achieved by the commission in implementing the policy in 2011. the evaluation carried out by the ec should be a source of information for the court of auditors. i agree that the court should carry out an annual audit of the evaluation process by the ec. it is also important that the commission defines in its management plan a range of objectives and indicators that meet the requirements of the court of auditors in terms of relevance, comparability and reliability of information, thus creating a new organisational culture based on results.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it is a contribution by parliament to the development of a new instrument for the discharge of the eu budget: the performance-based evaluation of the union's finances. in its communication, parliament stresses that activity-based budgeting remains the fundamental principle to be followed in drawing up the union budget. regrets, therefore, that, for example, the proposals for the 2014-2020 programming period on agriculture and cohesion are still largely cost-based and therefore still prioritise compliance with the rules over performance; reiterates its call on the commission to use specific information on the achievements of the member states in its assessment of the union's financial achievements; only in this way will the budgetary authority be able to obtain a clear picture each year of the actual extent to which the union's fundamental objectives have been achieved.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it was the report in which parliament gave its support to the introduction of a european emergency call system in all vehicles, operating on the basis of common european standards using the 112 telephone number. under today's decision, the 'ecall' will be activated automatically when the vehicle's sensors detect a serious collision. the activated system will automatically dial the european emergency number 112, establish a telephone link with the relevant emergency centres and transmit the accident data, including the time of the accident, the exact location of the vehicle involved and the direction of travel, to the rescue services. the ecall system can also be activated manually by pressing a button in the car, for example by a witness to a serious accident.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this proposal for the signing of a political dialogue and cooperation agreement between the european community and costa rica, el salvador, guatemala, honduras, nicaragua and panama. the text aims to strengthen political dialogue and the process of economic cooperation, and to promote sustainable development in both regions, by promoting a development partnership involving all stakeholders, including civil society and the private sector. the agreement also seeks to improve cooperation in the field of migration and to pave the way for new initiatives with common objectives and a common framework in areas such as regional integration, poverty reduction and social cohesion, sustainable development, regional security and stability, conflict prevention and resolution, human rights, democracy, good governance, migration and the fight against corruption, illegal immigration, the fight against terrorism, drugs, small arms and light weapons.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it gives parliament its support for the conclusion of the political dialogue and cooperation agreement between the ec and costa rica, el salvador, guatemala, honduras, nicaragua and panama. the eu-central america political dialogue and cooperation agreement aims to develop the previous cooperation established under the 1993 eu-central america framework cooperation agreement. it commits the parties to seek the conclusion of an association agreement, which was signed in june 2012[n] after five years of negotiations. however, the association agreement currently applies only to the trade sector. the remaining sectors require the agreement of all eu member states and are still awaiting approval.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this proposal for the signing of a political dialogue and cooperation agreement between the european community and costa rica, el salvador, guatemala, honduras, nicaragua and panama. the text aims to strengthen political dialogue and the process of economic cooperation, and to promote sustainable development in both regions, by promoting a development partnership involving all stakeholders, including civil society and the private sector. the agreement also seeks to improve cooperation in the field of migration and to pave the way for new initiatives with common objectives and a common framework in areas such as regional integration, poverty reduction and social cohesion, sustainable development, regional security and stability, conflict prevention and resolution, human rights, democracy, good governance, migration and the fight against corruption, illegal immigration, the fight against terrorism, drugs, small arms and light weapons.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it gives parliament its support for the conclusion of the political dialogue and cooperation agreement between the ec and costa rica, el salvador, guatemala, honduras, nicaragua and panama. although the cooperation agreement is broader in scope, covering various aspects such as political dialogue, social and economic cooperation, cultural exchanges, cooperation in education and training, consumer protection, health protection, data protection, scientific and technological cooperation, cooperation in the fields of environment and biodiversity, participation of civil society in cooperation, cooperation on gender equality, cooperation involving indigenous peoples and other central american ethnic groups, this document is aimed at obtaining parliament's consent only on the issues mentioned in article 49 (3) of this agreement the mutual readmission of illegal migrants.
in writing. - i voted for this report because it was the report parliament adopted in favour of the commission's proposal for guidelines for the employment policies of the member states. article 145 of the eu treaty states that the member states and the union shall develop a coordinated strategy for employment, in particular by developing a skilled, professionally prepared and adaptable workforce and labour markets that are responsive to economic change. the commission proposal states that member states should continue to make every effort in the following priority areas: increasing labour market participation and reducing structural unemployment; developing a skilled workforce adapted to labour market needs and promoting good quality work and lifelong learning; improving the functioning of education and training systems at all levels and increasing participation in tertiary education; fostering social inclusion and combating poverty.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to establish a common system of value added tax. the european commission estimates that vat accounts for around 21% of the national tax revenues of the eu member states and, given that 12% of vat is not collected annually, a more efficient vat system is needed to adequately prevent fraud. the introduction of the standard vat return will reduce the administrative burden of vat collection by up to eur 15 billion per year. i welcome the fact that the commission's proposal aims to increase the efficiency of vat collection and at the same time to reduce bureaucratic obstacles and the related costs for member states' tax authorities and taxable persons. i agree that the information requirements should be limited to the information strictly necessary for the control and collection of vat. by allowing undertakings to submit to the tax authorities of the member states in which they operate a maximum of twenty-six completed standard information boxes using a common, preferably electronic, vat return format, the completion of the vat return could save time for all those involved and help to avoid errors.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it supports the introduction of a standard vat return form. according to european commission estimates, vat represents about 21% of the national tax revenues of the eu member states and, given that 12% of vat is not collected annually, a more efficient vat system is needed to adequately prevent and eliminate the diversity of vat fraud. the introduction of the standard vat return is expected to reduce the administrative burden of vat collection by a maximum of eur 15 billion per calendar year.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to extend the preferential rate of excise duty applied to portugal in the autonomous region of madeira. the 2009 decision authorises portugal to apply until the end of 2013 a reduced rate of excise duty to rum and liqueurs produced and consumed locally in the autonomous region of madeira and to liqueurs and spirits produced and consumed locally in the autonomous region of the azores. the reasons for adopting this measure were the small size of the agricultural holdings, their fragmentation and the low degree of mechanization. in addition, the introduction of certain raw materials and packaging materials into the islands, which are not produced locally, generates additional costs that are not incurred by the introduction of the final product only. i am in favour of extending this authorisation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it supports the extension of the period of the decision on the application of a reduced rate of excise duty to rum, liqueurs and spirits produced and consumed locally in the autonomous region of madeira and the autonomous region of the azores. the reasons for the reduced rate are the small size, fragmentation and low level of mechanization of agricultural holdings. the 75% preferential tariff does not provide for anything that is not necessary to compensate for the additional costs incurred by economic operators as a result of the specific characteristics of the outermost regions of madeira and the azores.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to introduce a dock levy and apply a differentiated tax regime to france until 1 july 2014 by allowing the exemption from dock levy for certain local products produced in the french overseas departments of guadeloupe, guyana, martinique, mayotte and réunion. the reasons for the special measures are: remoteness, isolation, small market and low exports, difficult topography and climate, economic dependence on a few products and sometimes even natural phenomena such as cyclones, volcanic eruptions and earthquakes. i support the differentiated tax regime in mayo.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it supports the amendment to decision 2004/16/ec authorising france to exempt from dock dues or to reduce them until 1 july 2014 for the local products listed in the annex to that decision produced in the french overseas departments of guadeloupe, guyana, martinique, mayotte and réunion. the reasons for these special measures are remoteness, isolation, a small market and low exports, difficult topography and climate, economic dependence on a few products and sometimes even natural phenomena such as cyclones, volcanic eruptions and earthquakes. the remoteness of these regions and their dependence on air and sea transport, as well as on raw materials and energy, has a so-called domino effect on production costs. all these inconveniences add up to a net increase in the price of locally produced goods, which would not be able to compete with goods produced elsewhere without the special measure. if local products could not compete, it would be impossible to support local production, which would have a negative impact on the employment of the population of those areas.
in writing. - indonesia's economy is the largest in southeast asia. it is also the fourth most populous country in the world and one of the poorest countries in southeast asia. in 2009, the eu and indonesia signed a framework agreement on comprehensive partnership and cooperation (cpc), the eu ratification of which is currently being finalised. the ppp aims to strengthen eu-indonesia relations by developing political and economic cooperation in the fields of trade, industrial policy, energy, science, tourism, migration, counter-terrorism, etc. i support calls for eu member states to extend mutual legal assistance in their anti-corruption relations with indonesia and for indonesia to develop its own national plan for the implementation of the un basic principles on business and human rights. it is also important that the eu and indonesia consider opening negotiations on a free trade agreement with a view to gradually eliminating the main barriers to trade, as well as strengthening consultations on wto compliance, promoting the application of international standards on technical barriers to trade, improving the protection of intellectual property rights, increasing the transparency of trade rules, developing customs cooperation and promoting non-discriminatory investment treatment.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it supports the conclusion of a framework agreement between the ec and indonesia on comprehensive partnership and cooperation, except for readmission issues. the comprehensive partnership and cooperation agreement is the first of its kind between the european union and indonesia and aims to strengthen political, economic and sectoral cooperation of mutual interest, as well as to further strengthen bilateral and regional cooperation on global issues.
in writing. - indonesia's economy is the largest in southeast asia. it is also the fourth most populous country in the world and one of the poorest countries in southeast asia. in 2009, the eu and indonesia signed a framework agreement on comprehensive partnership and cooperation (cpc), the eu ratification of which is currently being finalised. the ppp aims to strengthen eu-indonesia relations by developing political and economic cooperation in the fields of trade, industrial policy, energy, science, tourism, migration, counter-terrorism, etc. the readmission provision establishes a mutual obligation between the eu and indonesia to take back their nationals, which means that their respective national authorities must first establish their identity. i support the suggestions that the commission should provide regular information to the ep at all stages of the preparation, negotiation, conclusion and implementation of eu readmission agreements. the commission should ensure that persons who are persecuted, tortured or punished in indonesia are not returned. it is also important to have control mechanisms in place to ensure that the fundamental rights of returnees are not violated when they return and settle in indonesia.
in writing. - indonesia's economy is the largest in southeast asia. it is also the fourth most populous country in the world and one of the poorest countries in southeast asia. in 2009, the eu and indonesia signed a framework agreement on comprehensive partnership and cooperation (cpc), the eu ratification of which is currently being finalised. the ppp aims to strengthen eu-indonesia relations by developing political and economic cooperation in the fields of trade, industrial policy, energy, science, tourism, migration, counter-terrorism, etc. the readmission provision establishes a mutual obligation between the eu and indonesia to take back their nationals, which means that their respective national authorities must first establish their identity. i support the suggestions that the commission should provide regular information to the ep at all stages of the preparation, negotiation, conclusion and implementation of eu readmission agreements. the commission should ensure that persons who are persecuted, tortured or punished in indonesia are not returned. it is also important to have control mechanisms in place to ensure that the fundamental rights of returnees are not violated when they return and settle in indonesia.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims at an agreement between the european union and turkey on the readmission of persons residing without authorisation. turkey is considered to be the main transit country for illegal refugees travelling to the eu. in order to return migrants who have entered the eu illegally, the eu and turkey began negotiating a readmission agreement in 2002. this agreement obliges its parties to take back their nationals and, where appropriate, third-country nationals residing without authorisation in the country concerned, as well as stateless persons. turkey has only initialled the agreement so far, as the turkish side unexpectedly linked the signing of the agreement to the requirement for the eu to develop an action plan on visa liberalisation. the commission's action plan on the gradual liberalisation of the visa regime linked such liberalisation to legal and administrative reforms in turkey related to the protection of personal documents, cooperation with eu border protection authorities and the safeguarding of fundamental rights. i support calls on turkey (after the eu has presented an action plan on visa liberalisation) to keep its promise and sign the agreement without delay. it is also important to link the preparation of the visa liberalisation action plan to strict criteria.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it supports the conclusion of an eu-turkey agreement on the readmission of persons residing without authorisation. the agreement would make a significant contribution to reducing illegal immigration to the european union via turkey. at the same time, it would contribute to the fight against cross-border crime, in particular trafficking in human beings, and relieve a large part of the burden on greece and, at the same time, on the european union as a whole. a readmission agreement obliges its parties to take back their own nationals and, where appropriate, third-country nationals residing without authorisation in the country concerned, as well as stateless persons.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it is a report in which parliament makes use of the possibility, provided for in its rules of procedure, of extending the transitional periods for the use of irish, maltese and croatian in parliamentary activities and for ensuring the translation of parliament's documents into these languages. such an extension of the transitional periods until the end of the next term of office is necessary because, despite all the appropriate prior measures, the irish, croatian and maltese translation capacities are not expected to be such as to enable the provision of full interpretation services into these languages from 1 july this year.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it supports the more frequent use of roll-call voting in parliament. following a study commissioned by the committee on constitutional affairs entitled 'democratic control, transparency and voting procedures in national parliaments and in the european parliament', it is proposed to amend the rules of procedure in order to align parliament's methods with the best practices envyed by other european union parliaments. the proposed amendment will also increase transparency and democratic accountability of members to the electorate and citizens. voters have the right to know how their elected representatives vote and to ask them to account for this.
in writing. - i approved this report, but with certain reservations. i supported the alternative proposal, which would allow for the organisation of integrated railway management in a holding company without requiring full decommissioning or unreasonably strict requirements for the interaction between the holding companies. the european parliament supported this alternative, thus giving the member states of the european union the right to decide for themselves on the model of management of railway undertakings, taking into account the specificities of the railways of a particular country, and recognising that the efficiency of railways is determined not by their fragmentation but by the efficiency of work organisation, geographical, technical and technological and other relevant circumstances.
in writing. - unfortunately, some representatives of the european commission and members of the european parliament consider that the dismantling of integrated rail systems in the countries of the european union is not related to the interests of third countries and the threats they pose. i believe that the dismantling of the national railway undertaking in accordance with the provisions of the fourth railway package would open up a wide range of possibilities for the countries of the union of independent states to take over control of the essential freight flows of the national railway undertaking and to transfer the effect currently obtained by the national companies in providing transport services to third countries. this is unacceptable. it is very important to note and point out that, apart from the economic losses in the eu, the transfer of control of the operation of the transport system to third countries would give them a good opportunity to influence the political processes and crisis management in the eu countries.
in writing. - i voted for this report. the cross-border rail passenger market has been open since 1 july 2010. however, domestic passenger transport markets in many member states are still largely closed. public passenger rail transport, like other passenger transport: bus, tram and metro services cannot usually be provided on a commercial basis. instead, they are provided under public service contracts. these service contracts include compensation for public service obligations. the most important element of the commission's proposal is the abolition of the possibility of directly awarding public service contracts for rail transport, as provided for in article 5 (6) of regulation (ec) no 1370/2007/eu. i supported the european parliament's position that the possibility of directly awarding very small-scale rail passenger services contracts should be maintained. in order to ensure fair competition and to avoid the misuse of compensation, the principle of reciprocity should also apply. that principle should apply not only to undertakings established in the member states and in the union but also to undertakings from third countries wishing to participate in public procurement procedures in the union.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this proposal in favour of the exception for the baltic railways, which is dominated by the 1520 mm wide crayfish. this will allow the authorisation of rolling stock and the certification of railway undertakings by the national safety authorities of these states, which have the capacity to assess this specificity and to take decisions contributing to the safety of rail transport.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, which aims to improve rail safety in the eu. the european union agency for railways (era) should develop guidelines which, inter alia, provide best practices in member states and examples of cross-border activities. in order to protect human life (staff, passengers, persons living near the line, third parties), public health and the environment, specific solutions to the issues related to the risks of dangerous or polluting goods are necessary on the basis of a proper and consistent interpretation of the relevant directives (1996/49/ec and 2008/68/ec). it is necessary to set clear time limits for the execution of the procedural steps (decisions to be taken within 3 months from the date of the request at the latest) in order to ensure predictability and efficiency on the basis of the agreement reached on the first railway legislative package (directive 2012/34/eu). the agency should also establish a system for the easy and anonymous communication of potential safety risks, thereby drawing the attention of the agency and the national safety authorities.
in writing. - i agree with the ep's position, as i believe that the reform of the railway sector must be completed as soon as possible. however, i do not think that it is necessary to delegate all powers to the european railway agency in order to regulate certain railway matters (e.g. the operation of rolling stock only in the territories of the member states). this could be in breach of the principle of subsidiarity.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to strengthen and improve the active system of aviation accident prevention by rapid analysis and exchange of information. the substantial increase in air traffic by 2030 requires the strengthening of preventive aviation safety measures to avoid an increase in aircraft accidents in line with the increase in traffic. in some member states where whistleblowers are not adequately protected, aviation workers still fear legal action or penalties from their employers. the enhanced protection of the reporting person will allow for the strengthening of this trust. it is envisaged that staff tasked with collecting, assessing, processing, analysing and storing reports will work separately and independently from other parts of the organisation to ensure confidentiality of data and anonymity of the reporting person. the appeal mechanism will now be available to employees who have been penalised for information disclosure. the member states and the european aviation safety agency will be able to better exchange the information collected through the use of an anonymous and secure database european central repository. it is important to enable member states to know the precise circumstances of an incident in national airspace.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it supports the strengthening of preventive aviation safety measures. the increase in air traffic is projected to continue until 2030[n], and therefore the strengthening of preventive aviation safety measures is necessary to avoid an increase in aircraft accidents in line with the increase in traffic. this regulation extends in principle the protection of the whistleblower, as in some member states where whistleblowers are not sufficiently protected, workers in the aviation sector still fear legal action or penalties from their employers. this regulation also strengthens the rules on confidentiality, so that by ensuring the anonymity of staff, for example by limiting the number of experts with access to personal data, the information collected will be used for the sole purpose of enhancing aviation security.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to introduce new rules requiring car manufacturers to install an ecall automated emergency call system in new car models from october 2015. in the event of a serious accident, this system would automatically collect the single european emergency telephone number 112 and transmit the incident information to the emergency services. this would allow rescuers to reach the scene of an accident faster, save lives, and reduce the severity of injuries. each year, emergency services have to respond to traffic accidents, which in 2012 killed 28 000 people and injured 1.5 million. since this system is a public service, i agree that it should be provided free of charge. i also agreed to other rules requiring the european union countries to have the infrastructure ready to receive ecall signals by october 2015.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it is the report by which parliament endorses the mandatory introduction of ecall in new vehicles from 2015[n 1]. ecall will be used to ensure that the communication system of the vehicle involved in an accident establishes a connection with the emergency services. in the event of an accident, the system will automatically collect the single european emergency telephone number 112 and transmit the vehicle's location to the emergency services. in order to ensure efficient transmission of ecalls, member states and mobile network operators will need to modernise their infrastructure. it is estimated that installing ecall in a new car will cost less than €100, but will save around 2500 lives a year.
in writing. - i voted to postpone this report in order to refer it back to the committee on economic and monetary affairs. the purpose of the notification is to enhance consumer protection in financial services. it is proposed to introduce new consumer-friendly investment information standards, stricter standards for advice and certain rules for investment funds to make funds safer. more than 70% of insurance products are sold without proper advice. the aim of this proposal is to improve the quality of information provided to consumers intending to invest. the aim is to inform consumers in an easily understandable form by setting a new innovative product information standard information will have to be presented in short and simple words, thus making it more understandable to the consumer. information will be provided on the main features of the product and the risks and costs of investing in that product. it is proposed that the obligations and liabilities of the depositary (the entity that safeguards assets) be clear and uniform across the eu. it is important to harmonise the requirements for the sale of insurance across the eu and to prevent the provision of incorrect and misleading information.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to introduce new ambitious health and consumer programmes. the new programmes will be implemented in the period 2014-2020. the health programme is allocated eur 446 million and the consumer programme eur 197 million. the aim of the proposed programmes is to develop healthy, active, informed and self-aware european citizens who can contribute to economic growth. the objective of the 'health for growth' programme is to develop innovative and sustainable health systems, to increase citizens' access to better healthcare and to improve health and prevent disease. the consumer programme will be supported by eu consumer policy: by ensuring greater product safety, by improving consumer awareness, education and rights awareness, and by strengthening consumer rights and ensuring effective redress mechanisms. it is important to avoid duplication of programmes and to make the best use of the financial resources allocated to them. i agree that the ageing population and age-related diseases should be better integrated into the health programme.
in writing. - i'm in favor of this document. while health protection is primarily a matter for the member states, i am convinced that some action is also needed at eu level, especially when it comes to funding or the high research potential. i am pleased that the document adopted as the eu's health priority contains some really important elements: a greater focus on the diagnosis and treatment of neurodegenerative diseases, as well as promoting well-being and health education.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to establish guidelines for broadband networks and digital services infrastructure in the telecommunications sector, i.e. the objectives and priorities envisaged in the context of the european infrastructure networks instrument. the guidelines identify projects for the deployment of broadband networks and digital services infrastructure of general interest. these projects will promote the interconnection and interoperability of national networks and will also promote the development of the digital single market. the objective is to achieve the targets set in the digital agenda for europe by 2020: universal coverage and 30 mbps or at least 50% of households using speeds above 100 mbps. it is essential to pursue the objective of the digital agenda for europe to ensure that the digital single market based on high-speed internet delivers sustainable economic and social benefits. it is also necessary to emphasise the importance of cybersecurity in ensuring consumer protection.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to introduce rules to ensure that public authorities' websites are accessible to all. the rules would make it easier for over 100 million eu citizens to access public services online, such as looking for a job, registering a car, submitting a tax return and submitting documents for a passport or driving licence. the proposal sets mandatory standardised accessibility conditions for 12 types of websites in the eu. the compulsory accessibility condition would apply to key services provided by public authorities, such as social insurance and health-related services, job search, university applications and the issuance of identity documents and certificates. the 80 million europeans with disabilities and the 87 million europeans over 65 would benefit the most. visually impaired persons will be able to listen to the visual descriptions using a screen reader, and hearing impaired persons will be able to see the information in the written audio files. only one third of the 761 000 websites of the european public sector and public authorities are fully accessible. i support the proposals set out to extend the scope of the directive and to implement additional measures in the field of monitoring, reporting and implementation. i agree that member states should designate a competent authority responsible for monitoring, which would be tasked with taking action on complaints from users about non-compliance with the web accessibility requirements of the websites concerned.
in writing. - in the age of the internet, more and more important services are being provided electronically. the web design industry, which employs around one million people, has a turnover of around eur 144 billion. more than 761 000 public sector websites in the eu provide access to information and services, but less than 10% of them are accessible to people with disabilities. a previous declaration adopted by the eu council stated that all public websites should be accessible by 2010. although member states have already adopted legislation or other measures on website accessibility, barriers to the internal market remain, resulting from very different national approaches across europe. i agree with the rapporteur that public sector bodies and all entities providing essential services to the public need to have integrated web accessibility practices in order to fulfil their obligations to all citizens. i voted in favour of this resolution because it calls on eu member states to establish a comprehensive list of types of websites operated by entities providing essential services to the public and to gradually implement the eu directive at national, regional and local level by 2020.
in writing. - i voted for this report because it is a contribution by parliament to the debate on the long-term financing of the european economy. long-term investment is crucial for economic growth and job creation. without them, it is impossible to successfully launch or carry out major projects in the fields of infrastructure, research and technological development and innovation. almost all european countries are currently pursuing a policy of fiscal consolidation in order to manage their debt. reliable fiscal policy instruments are the key, but it is crucial for europe to start developing a sustainable growth trend that would strengthen its competitiveness vis-à-vis other regions of the world and ensure that jobs are created. commercial banks, whether private, savings or cooperative banks, will remain one of the main sources of financing in most countries, but alternatives are needed to fill the financing gap and complement the traditional banking intermediation process. a regulatory framework should be established to create investment vehicles that focus and channel reliable and sustainable funding from multiple sources towards long-term investment.
in writing. - 42 million people, mostly women, are engaged in prostitution worldwide. some eu countries see prostitution as rooted in gender inequality, economic exclusion and poverty. prostitution is the trade in women and children. other eu countries regulate that women can do whatever they want with their bodies. studies show that few women choose to become prostitutes. young women are often trafficked into the eu prostitution network, where they are forced to use drugs and are exploited economically. there are not many statistics. the rapporteur, meri hanibol, a social democrat, calls on the eu countries to adopt the swedish model, where the purchaser of sexual services would also be a criminal. it is the only legally effective means of combating prostitution.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to ensure a responsible role for business in the extractive industry. the exploitation of valuable natural resources, including oil, gas, minerals and timber, is a source of many conflicts worldwide. a global strategy is needed to address the key causes of conflict in mining and to better manage the environmental, social and human rights impacts of mining. mining activities have a negative social impact. forced evictions are commonplace in mining operations. mining activities compete for space with other land uses such as farming, which may affect the livelihoods of local communities, etc. international corporations should take social responsibility for this. i support the proposals for action to regulate the risks posed by european companies extracting natural resources from other conflict-affected and high-risk areas. the existing certification schemes for minerals are a step forward towards more transparent supply chains involving mining and processing companies. the eu must adopt legislation requiring european businesses to carry out thorough supply chain checks to ensure that they do not contribute to the financing of conflicts or human rights abuses through the extraction and trafficking of natural resources.
the political crisis in ukraine, which has escalated into bloody clashes between the authorities and the public, has become a test of policy options a test of our policy. today we should not be afraid to admit that the blood of the dead is also being spilled on the insufficiently resolute policies of our union. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. the peace in ukraine today remains fragile and efforts by all the institutions of the union are needed to do everything possible to prevent a renewed outbreak of fighting. violence, no matter from which side it arises, can have no justification. european politicians must not speak but act to bring down tensions in ukraine and to start the process of unification. representatives of the european parliament and other institutions could form a special working group to act as an impartial mediator and adviser in order to form a new government in ukraine without oligarchs, as maidan wanted and wants. europe must be active at international level in order to preserve the territorial integrity of ukraine.
the following table shows the number of samples taken: i. salafranca said it well: ukraine has taught us all a lesson. a lesson in how to defend the values and the gains of democracy. i would also add the european perspective, the perspective of membership of the european union. for those who have forgotten, euromaidan began after viktor yanukovych decided not to sign the association agreement with the european union in vilnius last november. it's a fact. so it was the policy decision of the former president that got us where we are today. unbridled corruption, impunity, stolen state was and is the context, but not the primary cause. i just got back from kiev a few days ago. the ukrainians raise three key issues with the eu, while saying that addressing these issues would be the best way to deal with other ills, including corruption. we know what these issues are: an association agreement with ukraine without delay, the real prospect of membership of the european union and, thirdly, the financial support which is vital and necessary. i'm sure that's the package we have to offer ukraine. the time for sympathy, for sympathy, for promises is over. we must give ukraine our full and maximum support if we do not want to compromise the european union and these two houses of the european parliament and lose face altogether.
the nightmare in kiev, which claimed 100 or more victims, is over. but we can't relax. the eu must make a full contribution to efforts to avoid state bankruptcy, primarily by offering a financial assistance package, and support the preservation of ukraine's territorial integrity. the eu must make clear that the agreed association agreement can be signed immediately if the ukrainian side so wishes. if we did it in december, january and february when yanukovych was still in power, we must be prepared to do it now, when ukraine is back on the path to democracy, with the current government. the eu's mediation efforts are to be commended, but the eu's slowness and repeated 'express concern' during the days of peak violence was derided with a cartoon. let us not allow those responsible for the bloodshed to have a quiet cup of coffee in any eu capital. i believe that there are many lessons for the eu to learn from the events in ukraine, whether we are able to act decisively and with principle at the very moment when it is needed. let's move. in december, with the ukrainians, we sang ironically a folk song about promises and betrayals ("ty zhe menia pidmanula"). it was then addressed to the yanukovych government . as long as the song isn't about the european union.
in writing. mr president, the european union and some member states still have a high level of violations of fundamental rights, as evidenced by the european commission's reports. all citizens of the european union must be guaranteed their fundamental freedoms. the protection of national minorities and national and regional languages in the enlarged union is a major problem today, as, despite the signed conventions, multilingualism is being combated in some countries. the report raises a number of important points which are to be welcomed. for example, the call to prohibit discrimination against persons belonging to national minorities and to fight against linguistic discrimination. the rapporteur expressed concern that members of minority communities face obstacles in the areas of justice, education and culture, which result in violations of their rights. moreover, they are treated as second-class citizens by the public authorities of their home country. the author of the report rightly calls on the member states to ensure that persons belonging to national minorities are not discriminated against in the national legal system. calls also for appropriate measures to promote relevant international standards based on the council of europe framework convention for the protection of national minorities. and, most importantly, it called on the commission to develop policy standards for the protection of national minorities, including indigenous and linguistic communities, given that they represent over 10% of the eu population. it stressed the need for a comprehensive union system for the protection of traditional national minorities, regional language groups, together with a mechanism to monitor its functioning. the abovementioned entries in the report shall be put to the vote.
i'm here about the european arrest warrant. i welcome the rapporteur's position that the procedures for implementing the european arrest warrant must be clearer and that the countries should follow the same standards. it was precisely the disparate standards that led to the painful case a few years ago, when one eu country refused, on procedural grounds, to extradite a suspected perpetrator of crimes against humanity and war crimes to another eu country. i am referring to the case of mikhail golovatov and the fact that he was not extradited to the state of lithuania, where he allegedly committed crimes against humanity on 13 january 1991. it is regrettable that the report does not address the appropriateness of the exception whereby extradition under the european arrest warrant is only carried out in cases of crimes committed after 2002[n 1]. in my view, this exception should not apply, in particular, to serious crimes, i.e. crimes against humanity and war crimes, which are not subject to the statute of limitations under international law. the european commission has also invited the member states to consider this, and croatia, the new member state of the european union, has been obliged not to apply this exception. i would like to ask commissioner reding, if i may, what do you think about the time limitation that the crimes only apply after 2002?
in writing. - i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to create a common european law on sales contracts. differences in the contract law of member states create obstacles for traders and consumers wishing to engage in cross-border commercial transactions in the internal market. the barriers created by these differences have discouraged traders, especially smes, from engaging in cross-border trade. this proposal envisages the creation of a single european law on sales contracts, which will harmonise the national contract law of the eu, not by requiring the replacement of the existing national contract law, but by creating in the national law of each eu a second contract law framework for the contracts falling within its scope, which will be uniform throughout the eu and will operate alongside the existing national contract law rules. the common european law on sales contracts will be applied voluntarily to crossborder contracts by explicit agreement between the parties. i support the proposals made to make it clear that european contract law is the second legal system operating in each eu legal system. it is also important to clarify fully that the agreement to apply the common european law of sales contracts cannot be confused with a choice between two legal systems, but is a choice between two different contract law systems provided for by the same national law.
in writing. - the european arrest warrant is considered an important eu achievement in the area of criminal justice, facilitating cooperation between eu member states. while the report emphasises the need for greater clarity in the european arrest warrant procedures and for uniform standards in the member states, it must be acknowledged that there are many problems with the practical application of the european arrest warrant. on the one hand, the european arrest warrant is used frequently and disproportionately in some countries. on the other hand, there are eu countries which invoke the exception of non-application of the european arrest warrant procedures for offences committed before 2002. such a misuse limits the effectiveness of the european arrest warrant and, at the same time, raises legitimate doubts about the credibility of the european arrest warrant and the eu criminal justice system. i believe that no exceptions can be made for particularly serious crimes, such as war crimes or crimes against humanity.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to update the rules on the production and sale of tobacco in order to reduce the attractiveness of its products to young people. smoking remains the leading preventable cause of death in the eu, killing around 700 000 people a year. over the past decade, the number of smokers in the eu has fallen from almost 40% in 2002 to 28% in 2012. the proposal aims to ban all elements in cigarettes that are described as characteristic of their smell or taste. products with a characteristic smell or taste are chocolate, fruit or mint tobacco products. the use of other additives, such as vitamins, which may give the impression that the product is useful or not so harmful to health, is also prohibited. it also requires the use of visual and text warnings covering 75% of the front and back of all cigarette packs. the use of descriptions such as 'flat cigarettes', 'natural', 'organic' and misleading colours is prohibited. a single pack of cigarettes should contain at least 20 cigarettes. the use of lipstick-shaped packages would be prohibited for these measures. it is proposed to set the minimum size of a tobacco bag for rolling cigarettes at 40 g. many stricter provisions on traceability and security to tackle the problem of illicit trade in cigarettes.
in writing. - the new tobacco control measures are a big step forward. i agree with this report. this will help to prevent a new generation of smokers. it is no secret that many children and young people start smoking at an unconsciously early age: the vast majority of smokers start before their 18th birthday. the tobacco directive is the least we can do for the younger generation. i also support the banning of the production and sale of tobacco with flavours harmful to health. women are now the largest consumers of flavoured tobacco products, especially menthol. finally, it was officially recognised that flavoured tobacco products increase addiction to tobacco products, are more harmful and are more likely to encourage smoking. i agree that e-cigarettes should be subject to the same advertising restrictions as all tobacco products. i believe that this new long-running battle in the european parliament over tobacco production and distribution will reduce the number of deaths from tobacco, which is currently huge in the eu - as many as 700,000 a year. the agreements currently reached are, first and foremost, an important step towards a healthier society.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it reiterates parliament's call on the commission to further increase the capacity of solvit and to enable citizens to obtain more and more detailed information on their rights in the european union. the solvit online network not only provides individuals and businesses with more detailed information about their rights in the eu single market and the rules in force in the various member states, but also provides them with the necessary assistance in dealing with cross-border problems. analysis of the cases examined by solvit reveals numerous examples of over-regulation, late or incorrect implementation of legislation or national rules that are contrary to eu law. it is through solvit that citizens and businesses often bring cases of poor enforcement to the attention of public authorities. the potential of solvit to ensure the smooth functioning of the single market as a whole is therefore very high, and parliament, in its report, calls on the commission to take more active action to take advantage of this knowledge and findings.
in writing. - i voted for this report because it was the report parliament adopted in favour of the directive on the european investigation order in criminal matters. the european investigation order (eio) is a comprehensive system for the collection of evidence in cases of a cross-border nature. the eu instruments adopted so far in cross-border criminal cases, such as the preservation order or the european evidence order adopted in 2008, have not created a coherent and clear framework. the directive adopted by parliament today will create a single and coherent mechanism for all investigative measures aimed at gathering evidence. the european investigation order will be issued for one or more specific investigative measures to be carried out in the executing state and will involve the taking of evidence already in the possession of the executing authority. the european investigation order is an important part of the area of freedom, security and justice, which in a certain sense complements the area of free movement of persons in the european union with elements of security and justice.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it supports the amendment of the regulation establishing the list of third countries whose nationals must be in possession of visas when crossing the external borders and the list of third countries whose nationals are exempt from this requirement. this amendment adds moldova to the list of countries which are exempt from the visa requirement when crossing the external borders of the eu. the commission has proposed to lift visa requirements for moldovan citizens, given that the country has made significant progress in its dialogue with the eu on visa liberalisation over the past three and a half years. at the eastern partnership summit in vilnius in november 2013, moldova initialled the association agreement with the eu and became the first eastern partnership country to fully implement the requirements of the visa liberalisation action plan, which provides the conditions for the implementation of visa liberalisation.
in writing. - today, the european parliament adopted a very important decision, approving a visa-free regime for moldovan citizens with biometric passports. moldova has become the first eastern partnership country to successfully implement the visa liberalisation action plan and its citizens will soon be able to travel visa-free to the schengen area. this is a very important step towards closer relations between the eu and moldova. i would like to congratulate moldova for completing all its homework quickly and with confidence. i hope that the remaining approval procedures on the eu side will be carried out without delay and that soon ordinary moldovan citizens will benefit from the visa-free regime and that the remaining eastern partnership countries with which visa dialogues are ongoing will follow moldova's example.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it gives parliament its consent to the conclusion of an agreement with indonesia on forest law enforcement, forest management and trade in timber products imported into the eu. the objective of this agreement is to establish a legal framework to ensure the traceability of timber products imported into the eu, and to establish a verification procedure to confirm that timber products brought to the eu market are lawfully sourced, harvested, transported and exported, and to ensure good governance and legal exploitation of indonesian forests. this agreement also establishes the eu forest law enforcement, governance and trade (flegt) action plan. the conclusion of this agreement is an important step for the eu in its efforts to improve sustainable forest management worldwide, halt deforestation and forest degradation, and promote systemic change in the forestry sector by rewarding conscientious operators who source their timber from legitimate and reliable sources and protecting them from unfair competition.
i voted in favour of this resolution, although the initial texts raised a lot of concern and, in fact, i think they were weak, but i am glad that the final version expresses support for the people of ukraine, calls on all parties, including russia, to respect the territorial integrity of ukraine. i am pleased, however, that after lengthy discussions, the text contains an amendment which my colleagues and i have tabled, which refers to ukraine's prospect of joining the european union when it is ready. we have to be vigilant and we have to talk today about helping ukraine, i.e. offering financial assistance to help the country avoid bankruptcy. the european union must also be prepared to sign an association agreement if ukraine so wishes. we were ready when yanukovych was in power, so i don't think we should give up on our intentions. the biggest flaw in this resolution is the weak call for sanctions. the council of the european union agreed, but we still don't have the lists of those responsible. they may already be sipping coffee in some european union capital, so we need to be proactive and not slack off.
in writing. - the situation in iraq remains very tense. violent attacks, lack of dialogue and inclusion are hindering the restoration of peace and tranquility, social reconciliation and economic recovery. the path of resistance, pressure, competition from positions of strength leads nowhere, it is necessary to foster a culture of dialogue and compromise. the modern state must not only be a place of order but also a place of rights for all, including the most vulnerable, and its citizens must have the peaceful means to express their views, which must be heard, and to obey the law. i believe that the overwhelming majority of the iraqi people simply want to live their daily lives in safety and peace and have the opportunity to earn a living for themselves and their families.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it contains parliament's recommendations to the commission on improvements to the european arrest warrant system, which has been in place since 2004. the purpose of the european arrest warrant is to speed up and facilitate the prosecution of suspects and accused persons by replacing the previously complex extradition procedure, which included political actors, with a new, more rapid system of surrender based on the interaction of judicial authorities. in the application of the european arrest warrant, the surrender is accelerated by setting strict time limits and by limiting the application of the reciprocal penalty to provide a ground for refusal to execute the warrant. however, despite the generally positive evaluation over the last decade, weaknesses in the functioning of the system have been identified, which parliament calls for to be addressed in this report. this is necessary to ensure that the credibility of the european arrest warrant and of eu criminal justice initiatives in general is not undermined.
in writing. - the european arrest warrant is considered an important eu achievement in the area of criminal justice, facilitating cooperation between eu member states. while the report emphasises the need for greater clarity in the european arrest warrant procedures and for uniform standards in the member states, it must be acknowledged that there are many problems with the practical application of the european arrest warrant. on the one hand, the european arrest warrant is used frequently and disproportionately in some countries. on the other hand, there are eu countries which invoke the exception of non-application of the european arrest warrant procedures for offences committed before 2002. such a misuse limits the effectiveness of the european arrest warrant and, at the same time, raises legitimate doubts about the credibility of the european arrest warrant and the eu criminal justice system. i believe that no exceptions can be made for particularly serious crimes, such as war crimes or crimes against humanity.
in writing. - it should be noted that freedom of speech and the right to participate in peaceful demonstrations are considered fundamental human rights in any democratic state. they are also guaranteed by the venezuelan constitution. the authorities should therefore ensure that this right is respected, rather than widening the gap between the government and the people and the political opposition. when the government uses its power and the power that people have entrusted to it against themselves, it is the government that does not end well. there are many examples of such attempts in history, and the events in ukraine are the most recent example.
in writing. - i voted for this report because it is a report by parliament which seeks to consolidate knowledge, recommendations and initiatives relating to the social and economic role of women in the fisheries and aquaculture sector. despite the social and economic importance of women in the fisheries and aquaculture sector, there is little specific reference in plans, programmes and fisheries legislation to the need to ensure equal opportunities for women in fisheries-related jobs. women's work in the fisheries sector and related activities is often invisible and complementary to the work of partners, as economic conditions for family businesses become increasingly difficult. in such cases, women receive neither a fixed salary nor social benefits. in fact, for some women, it is their only source of income. one of the recommendations made by parliament is to ensure that women and young people working in the fisheries sector are able to participate in continuing vocational training in order to acquire more knowledge and opportunities for advancement in the fisheries labour market and to participate in all the organisations representing them.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to improve statistics on the carriage of goods by inland waterways. the regulation on the carriage of goods lays down general rules for community statistics on inland waterway transport. the proposal aims to align the provisions of the regulation with those of the treaty of lisbon. a successful policy to enhance the role of inland navigation in the transport sector should be based on objective, comparable and reliable statistical data. i agree that it is important to support support the increased use of inland waterways for freight and passenger transport, as this is the cleanest form of transport. ships used on inland waterways are often old and would have an additional environmental benefit if they were refurbished or renewed. statistics should be necessary to allow better assessment of the fleet condition and renewal indicators. data on waterway infrastructure should also be provided.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to establish new rules to ensure high quality comparable statistics for the macroeconomic imbalances procedure (mip). these rules will aim to ensure that the data used by the mdp are comparable, reliable and of the highest quality, so as to enable the early and effective identification and correction of macroeconomic imbalances in the member states. eurostat shall monitor the quality of the statistical data transmitted by the member states. the european commission's proposal also provides for penalties in the event of any member state intentionally providing incorrect mdp data. if there is any doubt about the compliance with eu statistical standards, eurostat will be able to visit a specific member state. states that intentionally provide misleading mip statistics may be subject to a dissuasive penalty not exceeding 0,05% of their gdp.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to ratify the nagoya protocol on access to genetic resources and the fair and equitable sharing of benefits arising from their utilization. the nagoya protocol has already been signed by 92 countries, including 26 eu member states. the parties undertake to ensure benefit-sharing, the fair and equitable sharing of the benefits arising from the utilization of genetic resources and the subsequent application and commercialization of the results. the benefit may be monetary, such as a percentage payment for the use of the property, or non-monetary, such as the sharing of research results or the transfer of technology. the nagoya protocol will enter into force shortly after it has been ratified by 50 states.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this recommendation because it is important that the european union and all its member states ratify the nagoya protocol as soon as possible in order to maintain its leading role and to participate immediately in the negotiations that will take place during the other countries' conference. the nagoya protocol of 2014 is an international treaty on access to genetic resources and the fair and equitable sharing of benefits arising from their use. it has been signed by 92 countries, including the european union and 26 member states. it establishes an international framework to support one of the three objectives of the convention on biological diversity - sharing the benefits arising from the utilization of genetic resources, in order to conserve biological diversity and sustainable use of resources. this important international agreement on biodiversity management is the result of lengthy negotiations following the adoption of the convention on biological diversity in rio de janeiro in 1992. it is an agreement at a time of global biodiversity crisis, which is deepening with the loss of living organisms. one in three species is threatened with extinction today, and ecosystems, complex systems that are important to humans for their functions, are increasingly affected by human activities. to reverse this trend, it is necessary to mobilise the necessary resources, in particular financial resources, at international and local levels, in order to preserve biodiversity that is important to humans. the nagoya protocol contributes to this objective.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to allocate eur 840 000 for the integration into the labour market of workers made redundant in 198 enterprises active in the production of textile products in spain. in 2013 spain submitted an application egf/2013/008 eu/comunidad valenciana, textiles for a financial contribution from the egf, following redundancies in 198 enterprises active in the textile industry in the region of valencia in spain. the expiry of the wto's 10-year mandatory agreement on textiles and clothing in 2004 opened the eu textile market to global competition, in particular from china and other far eastern countries. over the period, imports of textiles into the eu increased by 17%, while exports of textiles from the eu to the rest of the world decreased by 3%. the package of tailor-made services aimed at re-entering the labour market for redundant workers will include information meetings, profiling, career guidance, training, entrepreneurship support, etc.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to strengthen the rules on anti-money laundering. a united nations report estimates that money laundering flows worldwide currently account for 2.7% of global gdp (us$1.6 trillion in 2009). the proposed regulation aims to increase the transparency of all types of transfers of funds and to facilitate the tracking of funds by law enforcement authorities. the updated anti-money laundering rules propose to publish the true owners of companies and funds registered in eu countries in public registers. i agree that this should make it more difficult to conclude dubious transactions and prevent tax evasion. i agree that the new rules should also apply to the casino business, but the inclusion of other services in the gambling sector in these rules should be left to the eu member states. i believe that the new rules will successfully strengthen the supervision of banks, financial institutions, auditors, lawyers, accountants, notaries, tax advisers, asset managers and real estate agents.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to strengthen the rules on anti-money laundering. the new directive aims to improve the current system to prevent the proceeds of crime from being converted into legal tender through the financial system. i agree that the functioning of business registers should be improved. in order to prevent money laundering and terrorist financing, it is essential to identify the beneficial owner of the business or the beneficial owner of the business transaction. the company must know who its customer is and identify who the ultimate beneficiary is. it is also important to ensure the interoperability of registers. the registers should be interconnected and accessible to public authorities. it is also important that the preventive approach is targeted and proportionate and does not become a general control system for the whole population. the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing must be conducted in compliance with data protection standards.
in writing. - the eu economy loses €1 trillion a year to tax avoidance. this report provides guidance on how eu countries can better identify and tackle money laundering and terrorist financing threats. i voted for the report because it proposes to require banks, financial institutions, auditors, lawyers, accountants and estate agents to monitor suspicious transactions from customers more closely. these rules would also apply to the casino business, while eu countries could decide for themselves whether to extend them to other gambling services. the directive also requires companies with business links to politicians to obtain the approval of their management for transactions with them and to take measures to trace the origin of their assets or funds. this is currently only applicable to international politicians. the aim is now to include the most important figures in the state - heads of state, ministers and their deputies, judges of the supreme and constitutional courts or parliamentarians, as well as their family members.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to introduce stricter vehicle inspection rules to improve road safety. more than 5 people die every day on european roads in accidents caused by technical failures. technical failures account for 6% of all car accidents, killing 2,000 people a year and injuring many more. studies show that up to 10%[n] of vehicles on the road at any given time are in a state of repair that would not meet the requirements of a roadworthiness test. directive 2009/40/ec lays down minimum standards for the periodic roadworthiness test of motor vehicles. the new proposals aim to save more than 1 200 lives and prevent more than 36 000 accidents related to technical failures per year. i support the proposals to introduce mandatory roadworthiness tests for scooters and motorcycles and to increase the frequency of roadworthiness tests for older vehicles. it is also important to establish a more frequent inspection of very large cars and vans. they should be inspected in the same way as other vehicles travelling many kilometres, such as taxis, ambulances, etc. i support the proposals to improve the quality of vehicle inspections by establishing common minimum standards for defect assessment, equipment and inspectors. it is important to take strict measures against counterfeiting of the readings of the row counter.
in writing. - i voted for this proposal, which is about road safety. it lays down minimum requirements for roadworthiness tests for motor vehicles, their registration documents and for roadworthiness tests for commercial vehicles. directive 1999/37/ec on the registration documents for vehicles lays down requirements relating to the issue of registration certificates, their general recognition and minimum harmonisation of their content. i agree with the proposals to define more precisely the place of registration of vehicles and to provide for the suspension of the registration certificate. suspension ensures that vehicles posing a direct risk to road safety are not allowed to be used on the road, i.e. their registration is suspended until they have been successfully subjected to a subsequent roadworthiness test.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to introduce stricter vehicle inspection rules to improve road safety. more than 5 people die every day on european roads in accidents caused by technical failures. technical failures account for 6% of all car accidents, killing 2,000 people a year and injuring many more. studies show that up to 10%[n] of vehicles on the road at any given time are in a state of repair that would not meet the requirements of a roadworthiness test. directive 2009/40/ec lays down minimum standards for the periodic roadworthiness test of motor vehicles. the new proposals aim to save more than 1 200 lives and prevent more than 36 000 accidents related to technical failures per year. i support the proposals to introduce mandatory roadworthiness tests for scooters and motorcycles and to increase the frequency of roadworthiness tests for older vehicles. it is also important to establish a more frequent inspection of very large cars and vans. they should be inspected in the same way as other vehicles travelling many kilometres, such as taxis, ambulances, etc. i support the proposals to improve the quality of vehicle inspections by establishing common minimum standards for defect assessment, equipment and inspectors. it is important to take strict measures against counterfeiting of the readings of the row counter.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to simplify the rules for the production of union rail transport statistics. regulation (ec) no [nbsp ]91/2003 lays down common rules for the production of union rail transport statistics. the data collected under this system shall include freight and passenger transport as well as traffic flows on the railway system and traffic events. the proposal simplifies regulation (ec) no [nbsp ]91/2003 by leaving only the detailed reporting requirements and abandoning the current concept of simplified reports, thus reducing the burden on member states, but without compromising the quality of rail freight and passenger data. i support the proposal to remove the requirement to collect traffic accident data, as these statistics are also collected by the european railway agency.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims at the use of invoices in public procurement. the use of e-invoices is an important step towards electronic european public administration (e-government). the use of e-invoicing in public procurement across the eu could save up to eur 2.3 billion. the cost of receiving invoices can be reduced from eur 3050[nbsp] to eur 1 by replacing paper invoices with electronic invoices only. the draft directive on the use of electronic invoices in public procurement proposes to establish a european standard for electronic invoices, which should increase the interoperability of individual electronic invoicing systems. i agree that it is essential to remove the legal uncertainty, excessive complexity and additional operating costs for economic operators who now use different electronic invoices in different member states. the use of e-invoicing in europe needs to be encouraged, as it is currently very low: e-invoicing accounts for only 4¢15[nbsp] % of all invoices. in order to move towards fully electronic procurement, it is necessary to ensure that the use of e-invoicing in public procurement is the rule rather than the exception.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because the european investment bank (eib) remains the main institution for shaping and developing european union (eu) policies, ensuring continuous public involvement and offering investment capacity, while ensuring the inclusion and implementation of the europe 2020 flagship initiatives as far as possible. the eib supports the key instruments to promote the growth and jobs goals of the europe 2020 strategy, such as growth-enhancing infrastructure, smart innovation and competitiveness. welcomes the eib's annual report 2012 and calls on the eib to continue to support the eu's long-term priorities of economic and social cohesion, growth and employment, environmental sustainability, climate policy and resource efficiency, by further developing new financial and non-financial instruments aimed at addressing short-term market failures and longer-term structural weaknesses in the eu economy;
in writing. - during the economic crisis, the unemployment rate in the european union rose by millions. in 2012, 26% of women and 23.9% of men lived below the poverty line. millions of women were either unemployed or on half-time, their wages, health and pension contributions were cut. the entry of young women into the labour market has become even more difficult (in some countries one in three young women was not working or studying). many women, especially young ones, had to emigrate in search of a better life. hundreds of thousands of women in the industrial, commercial and social services sectors, where work schedules are intensive and wages are low, are experiencing poverty even while working. i voted in favour of this report because it calls for a more effective fight against discrimination against women at work on grounds of sex, including pay, and for women to be given better opportunities to combine work and family life. i also support the rapporteur's call for increased funding for organisations that fight against poverty and social exclusion of women, prostitution and trafficking in women, and support women who have experienced violence.
in writing. - the economic crisis has put millions of women in europe under the stress of unemployment, reduced earnings and, in some countries, pension and child benefit cuts. poverty and unemployment increased. women had a harder time entering the labour market, and work was often short-term, forcing many women, especially young women, to leave their homelands and go to work abroad to support themselves and their families. these problems are still relevant in lithuania. and phenomena such as poverty and unemployment in my country have triggered a wave of violence against women. in lithuania, 42.6% of married or partnered women have experienced violence at least once by their husbands. compared with the results of studies in other countries, it turned out that in lithuania women are more likely to experience violence not in public places, but in their own home, in the family environment! report by the european institute for gender equality on the beijing platform for action on violence against women. victim support (2012) showed that the economic crisis has triggered an upsurge in violence against women. it is therefore clear that the economic crisis, the increase in poverty and unemployment have triggered a gender equality crisis. it was very important to acknowledge that. i support this report and congratulate my colleague, inês zuber, on her excellent work.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because the creation of the european system of financial supervisors (esfs) has improved the quality and consistency of financial supervision in the internal market. this is a continuously evolving process, during which the values and interests of the european union should be the primary focus of the members of the supervisory board. the economic and financial crisis has shown that poor risk management, inefficient, uneven and divergent supervision of financial markets have increased financial instability and have undermined consumer protection in financial services. the european parliament supported the creation of the european supervisory authorities (esas), envisaged giving the esas more powers of coordination and direct supervision, and considered that these institutions play a key role in creating more stable and secure financial markets. however, the european parliament believes that the european union needs stronger and better coordinated supervision at eu level. the european parliament has therefore made detailed recommendations on how to strengthen the functioning and efficiency of the european financial supervisory systems.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because transparency is essential for a democratic union of citizens, in which they can fully participate in the democratic processes. transparent administration is in the interests of citizens, the fight against corruption and the legitimacy of the union's political system and legislation. the eu must continue to work to increase the transparency of its administrative and legislative processes. citizens are demanding more transparency. new technologies have given rise to many interesting new initiatives that provide a glimpse into the workings of the eu institutions. however, too often the public has to rely on leaks and whistleblowers to find out about institutional misconduct. it's a very bad thing for trust. as the case law shows, the institutions often still make exceptions to transparency and do so in a general way rather than on specific grounds. the possibility of partial access to documents is often not considered. official documents are also often overly classified and institutions request closed meetings without a good reason. the independent body should be entrusted with the task of supervising the classification of documents and requests for the preparation of closed meetings. a quick and easy procedure for objecting to a refusal of access to documents should therefore be provided for, in order to reduce the time and cost of legal proceedings.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to evaluate the activities of the committee on petitions in 2013. since 2009, the committee has received and registered some 10 000 petitions. about 60% of them were found acceptable because they fall within the eu's field of activity. in 2013, the number of registered petitions approached the three thousand mark. that's an increase of nearly 45 percent since 2012, and double that since 2011. the high number of inadmissible petitions is a cause for concern. i agree that the original filter should be re-introduced when the petition is registered in the dg of the directorate-general, as was done before, in 2012. in 2013, a large number of pending petitions accumulated, of which only 30% had been assessed at the time of adoption of this report. i agree that it is important to strengthen administrative capacity as much as possible and to set clear deadlines for the ep's consideration of petitions.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because the committee on petitions is a useful and transparent instrument for citizens and residents of the european union, which helps to exercise democratic control and oversight over many aspects of the european union's activities, in particular those relating to the implementation of eu legislation by national authorities. the committee, on the basis of the petitions received, can further contribute to a more coherent and coordinated application of eu legislation on the one hand and to the improvement of future eu legislation on the other, by drawing on the experience gained from the substantive examination of the petitions received. during the current term of office of the european parliament, the committee on petitions has dealt with the challenges of meeting the expectations of the citizens of the european union, and it is therefore important to emphasise that citizens should be directly involved in the work of parliament and present their problems, proposals or complaints to the specific committee members. the committee on petitions, together with other institutions and bodies such as the committees of inquiry and the european ombudsman, performs the functions of an independent and clearly defined point of contact for all citizens. these institutions, together with the european citizens' initiative, are the key tools for building a democratic eu and a pan-european society, and their proper access and sound functioning must therefore be ensured.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because the arrangements for the fruit and vegetables sector are part of the common agricultural policy and aim to restore balance in the food supply chain, promote the fruit and vegetables sector, increase competitiveness and support innovation. there are growing difficulties in plant protection, pest control and eradication, which can have a negative impact on the diversity of european agriculture and the quality of vegetables. the european parliament therefore stresses the importance of promoting the eu horticultural sector and enabling it to compete better on the world market by promoting innovation, research and development, energy efficiency and security, climate change adaptation and mitigation and measures to improve marketing. furthermore, efforts should be continued to eliminate the disproportionate relationship between operators and suppliers by increasing the level of concentration in the sector.
in writing. - i voted for this motion to end torture in the world. the eu guidelines on torture continue to be insufficiently implemented. i support the calls for the european external action service (eeas) and the member states to re-encourage the implementation of these guidelines, in particular by setting priorities, best practices and public diplomacy. i support calls for the emcdda, the human rights working group (cohom) and other relevant actors to jointly study eu support for the development and use of npms (independent and effective national prevention mechanisms) and identify best practice. it is important that the prevention of torture is integrated into all actions in the area of freedom, security and justice at eu level.
in writing. - i voted for this report because we must condemn the torture and other ill-treatment that still exists in the world. such heinous crimes must continue to be prohibited anywhere in the world at any time and can never be justified. the european parliament is concerned about the torture of human rights defenders, including community activists, journalists, human rights lawyers and bloggers, in prisons. the most common victims of unlawful imprisonment, intimidation, torture and threats to the family are people, mainly those involved in the struggle for human rights and democracy. parliament called on the eu to combat the various forms of human rights violations, especially those affecting children, which amount to torture. in particular, combating crimes related to trafficking in children, child pornography, child soldiers, child prisoners of war, child labour, cyberbullying, including in orphanages, detention centres and refugee camps. it is therefore necessary to implement effective safeguards to protect children as soon as possible.
in writing. - physical or psychological torture is the worst form of human rights abuse. the number of victims of this uncivilized, inhuman treatment around the world, especially in third countries, is enormous. the report condemns in particular the most cruel form of torture, namely the mutilation of the genital organs. i agree with the rapporteurs that specific european union mechanisms are needed to combat this phenomenon. i voted in favour of this report because it calls on the european union, in cooperation with the united nations, to put pressure on third countries that practice this. they must enact laws prohibiting torture. it is important to protect the most vulnerable sections of society, including women and children. the eu should also combat torture on eu territory. we should start a public awareness campaign about torture.
in writing. - saudi arabia is an important trading partner of the european union, as well as a counter-terrorism partner. the country is one of the world's largest oil consumers. the eu, meanwhile, is saudi arabia's largest trading partner. so there's a lot of interconnectedness and interdependence, and it's growing. cooperation between the two countries has intensified in recent years. in pursuing its interests, the eu should bring human rights violations in saudi arabia to the attention of the saudi leadership. the protection of religious freedom, the discrimination against women must be emphasised. in this country, women will not be able to vote in municipal elections until 2015, and they are not even allowed to drive cars. saudi arabia still carries out the death penalty, including publicly. it is also applicable to minors and foreigners. sadly, torture is also common in this country. the eu, together with international organisations, should put pressure on all these issues. i voted in favour of this report because it calls on the eu to take a more active role in the fight for human rights in saudi arabia, in particular by ensuring the rights of women, who are widely discriminated against and excluded from public life there.
in writing. mr president, the european union is planning to develop a modern and comprehensive framework for the protection of personal data, which should ensure a high level of transparency. this is particularly important in times of rapid technological development and high levels of online activity. let us not forget that an effective system for the protection of personal data in europe should above all contribute to strengthening the security of every european citizen. modern technology allows for the exchange and collection of data on an unprecedented scale. the provision of personal data by natural persons in a public and electronic manner is becoming increasingly common. the union must therefore have a clear say on the quality and extent of the use of the data collected and on the way in which they are processed. several of the issues raised by the proposed directive require further clarification. in particular, the rules on the protection of personal data need to be clearly defined. the specific purposes of the processing of personal data should be clear, compliant with the law and defined at the time of their collection, and limited to the minimum necessary for the purposes of their processing. furthermore, personal data should be processed only where that purpose cannot be achieved by other means. it is essential to prohibit judicial authorities from transferring personal data to private entities in the union, except in situations where a special situation requires it. however, personal data should not be transferred to authorities outside the european union in any way. that way we avoid creating an orwellian society.
in writing. although the free movement of workers within the european union is based on the principle of non-discrimination in the labour market, including the right to receive remuneration for work performed, social, health and labour protection rights, and the right to have family members accompany the worker, in many cases, workers still face discrimination or violations of social rights in real life. one of the shortcomings is that illegal and unlawful work is still too widespread in the european union, and in this case eu workers moving from one member state to another are particularly at risk because of their lack of knowledge of the language and the law. this results in a breach of workers' rights and social guarantees and a loss of resources from the budgets of the member states, thus weakening the possibilities for social policy. in order to avoid exploitation of workers in the labour market, member states must ensure that workers are employed legally, by means of employment contracts and in compliance with all legal provisions laid down by law. member states should also ensure that all relevant information on conditions, social benefits, housing, healthcare, tax benefits and disincentives for the partner of the worker, taxes and benefits relating to childcare and pension rights is widely available and easily accessible in the relevant languages to workers, employers and other interested parties in other member states.
the situation in ukraine today is so tense that at any moment there could be a frenzy that historians will later call war. and we talk too much and we do too little. political dialogue is important, but at this point, i am convinced, it should also take place at the next, the very highest level. i would urge the leaders of the european union to convene a special g8 conference just for that purpose. and the situation calls for solutions that will preserve peace. bilateral or trilateral negotiations are unlikely to yield results. it's been going on too long. for too long, all that has been expressed has been concern. i appeal to the leaders of the nations: the future of the world depends on your decisions. i hope those decisions are wise.
i want to emphasize three points. first, russia's actions in crimea constitute a clear violation of the norms of international law regarding the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the countries. and we have to make that clear once again to the people of ukraine and to the world. secondly, yes, we have to act wisely, seriously, in a coordinated way, to look for opportunities for negotiation, but it is time to take more effective diplomatic, economic and political measures and even sanctions against russia in order to bring peace to the region. we have to ask ourselves whether the suspension of the negotiations on the eu-russia trade agreement and visa regime is really an effective and adequate measure, given that these negotiations have not been held in practice for some time. unfortunately, we have to admit that energy dependence on russia and economic interests often take precedence over peace. thirdly, the urgent need for financial support from the european union to the people of ukraine.
in writing. putin's russia has become a violator of international law, breaking its own agreements and commitments. we cannot allow anyone's imperial ambitions to be put above peace, democracy and the sovereignty of states. putin is using yanukovych as a puppet - perhaps in the same way he dreams of controlling ukraine. this person is publicly mocked, but at the same time, it is said that he is still legitimate. in the meantime, the russian side has no doubts about the legitimacy of the new crimean authorities, which were elected after the armed seizure of the crimean parliament. i think that the relevant international institutions should give their assessment of the law on the annexation of territories to the russian federation that is being prepared in the duma. former so-called 'minister of foreign affairs' of the so-called 'lugansk people's republic'. all possible means are being used to spread putinist propaganda. false rumors were spread that 'euromaidan fighters' were being prepared in lithuania and poland. the eu and media freedom organisations must contribute effectively to the strengthening of media freedom throughout ukraine. sanctions are required against those who act against the territorial integrity and sovereignty of ukraine. and those who continue to trade in military technology must consider whether they are acting against themselves and their allies. i welcome the financial and economic measures contributing to the ukrainian government's reforms and economic rescue, as well as the commission's recent decision to offer economic incentives worth eur 500 million. i think we should have similar tailor-made measures for moldova and georgia.
in writing. russia has violated international law, breached its own signed commitments. all speakers in the european parliament agree. eu leaders and the governments of its member states have taken measures, including financial assistance for ukraine. today, unfortunately, it is not enough to tighten visa requirements or freeze offshore bank accounts. the european union needs to fundamentally rethink its policy towards russia. it is clear that there is no benefit for either side in changing the established economic relationship between the eu and russia, but we must make some sacrifices to bring about real change, otherwise the consequences will cost the eu even more. the eu needs to take decisive and effective decisions on energy relations with russia, and especially on arms trade. ukraine is on the brink of a real war and its security must be the priority for all of us, which is why today we need quick and firm decisions at the level of heads of state.
in writing. - the european parliament notes the efforts of the pakistani government to strengthen relations with the eu, which is seeking to develop cooperation with the country on development and strengthening regional security. the eu has allowed pakistan to benefit from a preferential trade regime since 2014, thus contributing to the strengthening of the pakistani economy. the ep also notes the importance of the may 2013 elections for the consolidation of democracy and civil governance in the country. however, much remains to be done to achieve sustainable democracy and a pluralistic society, to ensure greater social justice, to eradicate extreme poverty, to increase the level of basic education, to improve the education and position of girls and women, to prepare for the effects of climate change, and to strengthen regional cooperation in the fight against trafficking in human beings, drugs and goods. pakistan can and must play a significant role in the fight against terrorism and radicalisation at home and abroad. pakistan's intention to engage in trade in nuclear weapons is of particular concern.
in writing. - it is to be congratulated that we have made significant progress in strengthening bilateral relations. the adoption of the five-year cooperation plan and the launch of the eu-pakistan strategic dialogue demonstrate the commitment of the two sides to further strengthen political and security cooperation. however, it is essential that pakistan properly implements international conventions in the field of human rights, labour rights, as well as environmental and good governance. i believe that we need to continue strengthening democratic institutions, the rule of law, civil control in all areas of public administration, promoting internal and regional security, implementing governance reforms, increasing transparency and intensifying the fight against organised crime. it is also essential to take more effective measures to reduce social injustice and prevent any violation of human rights. only by implementing the provisions of international law will pakistan play a constructive role in strengthening regional stability.
in writing. - in the current context, where russia, in violation of international law and its own commitments, is engaged in military and information aggression against its closest neighbour and a european state, and is conducting unannounced military exercises, including the use of tactical weapons, on the borders of eu and nato member states, cooperation between the eu and the us is of even greater strategic importance. i believe it is high time to strengthen this transatlantic link and cooperation within nato in every way possible. the ballistic missile shield must become one of the key elements of european security and provide a single protective shield for all nato members in europe, without any gaps. i would also like to draw attention to the need for some eu countries that are members of nato to increase the amount of their defence budget to bring it at least closer to the agreed level. unfortunately, the reality is that spending on defence and security is no longer a luxury but a necessity. i also believe that the security impact of cyberattacks should be considered and prepared for.
in writing. - it is essential that member states are protected against possible ballistic missile attacks in the event of a threat. in this context, the strategic partnership with nato in the field of ballistic missile defence should be further developed. it is necessary to ensure a uniform level of security in all member states. i believe that the issue of ballistic missile defence should be addressed at the highest level and included in future security strategies, studies and white papers.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it is necessary to develop and strengthen the european union's fisheries sector. the sector faces a number of challenges, including rising fuel costs, labour shortages and quota restrictions. the processing sector suffers from the limited supply of raw materials and competition with products imported from third countries. the aquaculture sector also faces competition from imported products, low prices for certain species, strict environmental rules and conflicts over land use. the eu is the world's largest importer of fishery products. the european union's fisheries and processing industries are vital to ensuring food supplies for eu citizens and livelihoods for coastal communities. securing their future is and must be an important eu policy objective.
in writing. - it is essential that imported fishery products which may disrupt the production and the market of these products in the eu are considered sensitive products. therefore, these products should be subject to strict and consistent rules of origin without any reservations and their accumulation should be strictly limited. furthermore, imports of canned tuna and other fishery products from thailand should be subject to the same conditions of competition as eu fishery products to the greatest extent possible and should continue to be subject to the current customs tariff. on the other hand, it is essential that, where appropriate, a rigorous impact analysis and assessment is carried out. in order to strengthen bilateral cooperation, thailand needs to demonstrate strong respect for human rights, environmental protection, conservation and sustainable use of fisheries resources, the fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing, and compliance with eu sanitary and phytosanitary rules.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because of the importance of nutrition for human health. poor nutrition can be a major cause of obesity, anorexia, heart disease, diabetes, stomach problems, and other ailments. to avoid the enormous and difficult costs of treating diseases and pathologies caused by poor nutrition, even in the most developed societies, it is therefore necessary to integrate nutrition knowledge, taste laboratories, knowledge of nutrition-gastronomy and nutrition-gastronomy culture into the education systems of the various countries. gastronomy and culinary arts have also become an increasingly important form of artistic and cultural expression; that nutrition and proper food are one of the most important foundations of social and family relationships. finally, it is clear that gastronomy has become a very important aspect of tourism promotion and that, in the end, the gastronomic offer is very important for the traveller and the passenger, in addition to other attractive factors. however, for nutrition and food and drink to play their role in modern societies, it is essential to introduce appropriate education and culture in this area.
in writing. - i voted for this report. it is noteworthy that in developed countries, nutrition has become a major cause of diseases and pathologies due to lack of culture and education. poor diet is a major cause of obesity, anorexia, cardiovascular disease, diabetes, stomach problems, and other health problems. to avoid the high costs of treating diseases and pathologies caused by poor nutrition, it is necessary to integrate nutrition knowledge, taste laboratories, knowledge of nutrition-gastronomy and nutrition-gastronomy culture into the education systems of different countries. it is worth noting that gastronomy and culinary arts have become an increasingly important form of artistic and cultural expression. gastronomy has also become a very important aspect of tourism promotion, and the gastronomic offer is of great importance to the tourist and the passenger. therefore, for nutrition and food and drink to play their role in modern societies, it is essential to introduce appropriate education and culture in this area. i think that education in food and gastronomy should be integrated into the education systems of all european countries. it is essential that the eu develops policies to promote education in the field of nutrition and gastronomy.
in writing. - rapid technological advances and the expansion of the range of services provided online have created a need to protect personal data. it is clear that the standards of protection of personal data vary between member states and that it is therefore necessary to seek a common standard that not only allows for adaptation to the changed needs of the digital world, but also enhances consumer confidence in the use of online services by providing more precise information on the reasons for the request for certain personal data, the protection of the data provided and the rights. i support this report and at the same time hope that the amendments it proposes will not only ensure better protection of personal data and consumer rights, but also contribute to strengthening the eu's internal market, reducing the administrative burden in the field of personal data protection.
in writing. - i agree with the report. the updated rules on the protection of personal data will further restrict the transfer of such data to non-eu countries and give them greater control over the processing of their data. i think it is appropriate to tighten the penalties for non-compliance. in addition, companies should be obliged to explain their privacy policy to their customers in a clear and comprehensible manner and should obtain the consent of the individual in each case to process his data. particular attention should be paid to limiting profiling. in order to prevent any discrimination, people should not be profiled solely on the basis of their nationality or race, political or religious beliefs, sexual orientation, genetic data or minor offences. it is essential that the provisions of this regulation ensure that any profiling can only be carried out with the consent of the individual.
in writing. - i support this report on the amendments to the eu's personal data protection rules, as they aim to strengthen citizens' rights to privacy online. the internet, smartphones, and social networks have made it easier than ever to share personal information. it also increases the likelihood that it will be found and used in illegal ways. if the council of the eu approves the proposed amendments, the same data protection rules would apply across the eu. among them is the 'right to be forgotten', which will allow people to better manage the information they have put online in the past. under the new rules, authorities will be allowed to collect no more personal data than necessary for security reasons. the data of europeans will also be better protected against requests from foreign governments, and their provision to third parties without explicit consent will be strictly restricted.
in writing. - i agree with the recommendation. i believe that it is necessary to extend the application of the pericles 2020 programme to the member states which have not adopted the euro as their single currency, as its importance, usefulness and effectiveness are beyond doubt. it should be noted that this programme contributes to enhancing the efficiency of the union's economy and ensuring the sustainability of public finances. the implementation of these measures not only across the eu but also beyond will further strengthen the protection against euro counterfeiting. it should be noted that the effective implementation of the programme will be achieved only through the establishment of a comprehensive and flexible implementation framework. it is gratifying to see that the programme has been implemented effectively and has achieved its intended objectives. its further application and development would therefore ensure greater effectiveness in preventing and punishing euro counterfeiting and would increase the awareness of eu citizens. on the other hand, the results achieved by the programme depend not only on effective action but also on external factors. it should therefore be ensured that the programme is assessed in the light of all aspects affecting euro counterfeiting and fraud.
in writing. - i support the european parliament's decision to give its consent to the conclusion of the eu-azerbaijan visa facilitation agreement and the directly related eu-azerbaijan agreement on the readmission of persons residing without authorisation. these agreements are among the most important in the strengthening of eu relations with azerbaijan, which is a participant in the eastern partnership programme. they will help to strengthen relations not only between countries but also between people.
in writing. - i voted for this recommendation. i believe that it is appropriate to simplify the procedure for issuing visas to citizens of the european union and the republic of azerbaijan. the free movement of people and closer ties between nations are among the key advantages of the eastern partnership programme. the agreement on visa facilitation is a crucial precondition for the stable development of economic, humanitarian, cultural, scientific and other relations. it is noted that azerbaijan is a very important partner of the eu and that this cooperation needs to be strengthened on the basis of common interests. however, visa facilitation should not be an incentive for irregular migration. therefore, particular attention should be paid to security and readmission.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and the republic of azerbaijan on the readmission of persons residing without authorisation. this agreement is important in terms of policy and procedures to ensure effective action against illegal immigration. it is noted that the process of strengthening eu-azerbaijan relations will help to expand the boundaries of the area of freedom, security and justice. this agreement will be a step forward in cooperation on mobility. in addition, simplified and faster procedures will help to develop lasting and strong friendly relations. it should be noted that the readmission obligations are based on full reciprocity. both parties should therefore ensure that the agreement is applied in a manner that respects human rights and the obligations and responsibilities set out in the relevant international instruments applicable to the parties.
in writing. - i voted for this report because it is very important to protect children in armed conflicts. children are separated from their families, recruited as soldiers, forced to kill, and exploited in all forms of conflict, with devastating effects on their physical and mental development that affect them for life. while the primary responsibility for the protection of civilians lies with the state, it is also important to emphasise the responsibility and obligation of armed non-state actors to protect civilians under international humanitarian law. this is why the neutral and impartial humanitarian organisation geneva call was set up in march 2000 with the aim of obtaining a commitment from non-state actors to respect the provisions of international humanitarian law. the geneva call, which has been recognised as a success story by the un secretary-general, promotes a constructive dialogue with armed non-state actors to persuade them to change their behaviour and commit to specific humanitarian law, and monitors and supports the implementation of these commitments.
in writing. - recent armed conflicts have increasingly involved one or more non-state actors fighting against government forces or other armed groups, with the civilian population, and especially children, suffering the most from these wars. in addition to the irreparable damage caused by armed conflict to the lives, psychology and development of children and adolescents, the most acute problems are the recruitment of minors and adolescents into armed forces and their exploitation for participation in conflicts, sexual violence, which amounts to war crimes and crimes against humanity, and the death and maiming of children by landmines. the international community must seek and ensure that international norms are respected by all parties to the conflict, whether state or non-state actors.
in writing. - i voted for this report. participation in armed conflict has a significant negative impact on the physical and mental development of children. they are also at greater risk of various and repeated violations of their fundamental rights. in this context, armed non-state actors should undertake greater commitments and sign action plans for the protection of children in armed conflict as soon as possible. the eu has also committed to supporting the implementation of the un charter and the un declaration on the rights of persons with disabilities. they should make greater efforts to prevent the recruitment and forced recruitment of children under the age of 18. on the other hand, eu member states should also join efforts to protect schools from attacks by armed actors and military use. it is very important that more support is given to ngos. in addition, particular attention must be paid to political, diplomatic and financial measures to protect children.
in writing. - one of the principles of eu food policy is the clarity and transparency of the information provided to the consumer. a few years ago we adopted the main piece of legislation in this area - the regulation on consumer information. it will be launched at the end of the year, with some provisions still to be finalised by the european commission. however, such a clarification should not be contrary to the objective of the regulation itself, as we see in the present commission proposal. i therefore support the resolution which seeks to prevent legal contradictions in the field of food policy.
in writing. - i support the motion. in particular, the eu needs to ensure a high level of consumer health and interests protection for final consumers and to allow them the right to choose products on the basis of correct information. in order to ensure that consumers are properly informed, all ingredients in the form of engineered nanomaterials should be clearly identified in the list of food ingredients. it is also essential that the definition of this concept be based on technical and scientific progress. it should be noted that food additives may be present in the form of nanomaterials. in this context, the commission should present a new delegated act which takes into account the position of the parliament and does not confuse safety issues with the general labelling requirements to inform consumers.
in writing. - the european commission has already expressed the need to create a common data protection framework and to harmonise the different systems in the eu member states, as this would contribute to better protection of personal data and, at the same time, to the creation of a common internal market. however, the rapporteur suggests that data protection standards should be tightened in some cases, so that law enforcement agencies are not always able to properly carry out the functions assigned to them due to overly strict restrictions. it is understood that personal data must be collected and used in a transparent manner, avoiding the collection of excessive personal data, but restrictions must not become limiting factors in the activities of law enforcement authorities.
in writing. - i voted for this report. in order to facilitate the work of competent authorities, a uniform high level of protection of personal data and a consistent and uniform application of the rules on the protection of fundamental rights and freedoms of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data should be ensured in the eu. personal data must be processed properly and used only for specific purposes and only with the consent of the person concerned or on other legitimate grounds established by law. the scope of such data should not exceed the necessary purposes for which they are processed. in view of this, the collection of such data and the period for which they are to be stored should be strictly limited. the processing of personal data should be lawful, fair and transparent with regard to the data subjects concerned. every person has the right to have access to and rectification of personal data concerning him or her.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it is important to implement the reform of air navigation services. the single european sky initiative was launched in 2000. the commission notes that the airport services agreement with ryanair was signed on 20 june 2012 and that the agreement was signed on 1 july 2012. the initiative has its origins in the implementation of the enlargement policy and the active neighbourhood policy. the commission's proposal on the implementation of the single european sky measures thus aims to increase the independence of national supervisory authorities, strengthen the role of the network manager, redefine the concept of functional airspace blocks and thus allow companies in the sector to play a more important role. in addition, to support the provision of air navigation services based on competitive public procurement procedures. the european parliament suggests in the report that the concept of the single european sky itself should be better understood and allow for more flexible use of airspace, and that the actors in this area should be encouraged to cooperate more actively across the boundaries of their activities. they should have equal opportunities to expand the geographical and operational scope of this regulation and to conclude appropriate agreements with neighbouring third countries, including fab agreements.
in writing. - i voted for this report. the benefits of the single european sky are undeniable. it contributes to growth, employment and competitiveness. this initiative has led to the integration of air traffic management and navigation services into the common transport policy and the creation of a european aviation market. in this context, it is necessary to further develop and improve the implementation of this initiative and to accelerate the reform of air navigation services, in line with the initial objectives and principles. european airspace must not be congested and fragmented. particular attention should be paid to improving the structure and efficiency of the overall european route network. it is also essential that the reform in progress helps to reduce navigation charges and ticket prices and the cost of average flight duration or fuel consumption and to remove the unnecessary burden on airspace users and passengers caused by the deficiencies in the eu aviation chain.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it is important to achieve and maintain a high uniform level of civil aviation safety in europe and to establish the structure of the european union aviation agency (management). this regulation is of particular importance for two reasons: first, because of the need to adapt to the new rules on the single european sky and the reform of governance to implement the interinstitutional agreement on eu agencies signed in july 2012. the european commission, the european parliament and the european council reached agreement on a common approach to eu agencies. although the agreement does not have binding legal effect, it is based on the principle that each individual case must be examined individually. the second reason is the advanced nature of many aspects (conditions for the establishment of agencies, choice of location, management, operation, use of resources, control).
in writing. - i voted for the proposed rule change. it is necessary to achieve and maintain a high uniform level of civil aviation safety throughout the eu and to establish a governance structure for the eu aviation agency. it is essential to continuously improve flight safety while maintaining effective international aviation relations. in particular, the issue of security should be addressed in greater detail. the international role of the agency needs to be strengthened. it should be noted that the reform of the management and operation of the agency should take into account the specific nature of the agency. aviation safety should remain a priority objective of the agency. in addition, the international role of the agency should be continuously strengthened. on the other hand, the structure of the executive board of the agency should ensure that no state enjoys privileges or disadvantages compared with others and that all states are represented.
in writing. - the creation of the eu single market is inseparable from the proper protection of consumer rights, and it is therefore necessary to improve the protection of travellers and to increase competition in this area. i support this communication, which will contribute to a better protection of consumers when they buy package holidays. the amendments extend the organiser's liability and give consumers additional rights, such as: withdrawal from the contract and refund in the event of an increase in the price or a significant change in the duration of the trip, the organiser's obligation to provide the consumer with more information on the provision of services, the characteristics of the trip for disabled persons, etc. i believe that these amendments will better ensure consumer rights while responding to the rapidly changing needs of the market.
in writing. - i voted for this report. as the travel market is constantly evolving, the scope of the directive should be adapted to its needs and help to strike a balance between consumer and economic interests. it is necessary to ensure a level playing field and adequate consumer protection in the eu. in particular, a broader definition of packages will help to address the problems raised by the customization of packages. the new directive will also prevent market abuse and help to maintain efficient business models that benefit consumers. i believe that member states should do more to ensure that the directives are properly enforced and to impose strict penalties on companies that do not comply with their provisions. however, the provisions of the directive should not create an excessive regulatory burden for electronic commerce in travel services. on the other hand, while ensuring greater transparency, it is necessary to maintain a high level of consumer protection.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, i congratulate the rapporteur and i think that the directive really needed to be updated, because the tourism market has changed a lot since 1990. the tourism sector throughout europe, including lithuania, plays a very important role. the updated directive complements the existing legislation. we all know that there are many different offers for us consumers on the internet today, and that is why greater consumer protection is particularly important in this important area. citizens should be given full details before purchasing a package, especially when certain important and consumer-relevant information is written in fine print in the contract. consumer protection must therefore be further strengthened. the good news is that under the updated directive, consumers will have the right to opt out of a service if the service provider fails to comply with its obligations. consumers will also not be left to their own devices if the package provider goes bankrupt during the journey.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because we need to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. the montreal protocol, considered the most successful international environmental agreement, has achieved a global phase-out and reduction of the most ozone-depleting substances, including chlorofluorocarbons and hydrochlorofluorocarbons. the european union (eu) has called for a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions of 80% to 95% by 2050 compared to 1990 levels. therefore, additional legislation is needed now to prevent emissions from rising for the next few decades. sustainable alternatives are already on the market and are being used, and have been shown to be safe, economical and energy efficient. the phasing out of ozone-depleting substances will increase sustainable growth, stimulate innovation and reward european companies for investing in green technologies.
in writing. - i voted for this report. i believe that member states should make greater efforts to implement the roadmap to a competitive low carbon economy by 2050[n]. in order to reduce the emission of fluorinated greenhouse gases, training programmes should include information on the technologies used to replace and reduce the use of fluorinated greenhouse gases. in addition, the use of consistent and qualitative data is necessary for the effective monitoring of the emissions of fluorinated greenhouse gases. i think that there should be prohibitions on the placing on the market of new refrigeration, air conditioning and fire-fighting equipment containing or operating on such gases. it should be noted that the gradual reduction of the quantity of hydrofluorocarbons that may be placed on the market is the most effective and cost-effective way of reducing the long-term emissions of those substances. in view of this, marketing quotas should be set for certain entities in order not to exceed the overall quantitative limit for the placing on the market of hydrofluorocarbons.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because we must ensure the effective free movement of workers in the european union. unfortunately, there are still many problems for workers in the eu when they move, and many workers are very often unaware of their rights to free movement. these workers continue to be discriminated against on grounds of nationality when they move from one member state of the european union to another. workers also experience the most severe consequences of discrimination on grounds of racial or ethnic origin, religion or belief, disability, age or sex. there is therefore a gap between the legislation and the practice of applying it, and this problem needs to be addressed. this gap also persists for some vulnerable groups, such as domestic workers, people with disabilities or illiterate people. specific measures should therefore be put in place to enable those groups to exercise their right to work in another member state. the european parliament calls on the commission and the member states to set up a network of european national contact points to help exchange best practice and improve cooperation between member states in facilitating the free movement of workers. in addition, member states should promote more dialogue with the social partners and relevant non-governmental organisations which, in accordance with national law and practice, have a legitimate interest in supporting the fight against discrimination on grounds of nationality by promoting the principle of equal treatment.
in writing. - i voted for this report. the free movement of workers is one of the fundamental freedoms of union citizens and an important element in the creation of a genuine union labour market, as it enables workers to move to areas where there is a shortage of labour or where there are more employment opportunities. in order for citizens to enjoy this right properly, it is necessary to prevent discrimination on grounds of nationality as regards access to employment, employment and working conditions, in particular as regards pay, dismissal and tax and social benefits. in addition, any unjustified restrictions and administrative obstacles must be removed and the procedures for union citizens living, working and travelling in other member states must be simplified. the implementation of the envisaged measures will facilitate access to eu labour mobility support services for workers, prevent abuse and at the same time increase employment opportunities across the union.
in writing. - free movement of workers is a fundamental freedom of eu citizens laid down in the treaty and in eu legislation. free movement of workers gives citizens the right to move freely to another member state and to work and reside there for that purpose. however, this right needs to be fully empowered in the eu as there is still discrimination based on nationality within the eu. that is why eu workers who face such discrimination must be guaranteed their rights and must be granted means of legal protection. this legislation aims at clarifying and better applying those rights under existing eu legislation. i welcome all the steps proposed in the directive that aim at improving the functioning of the single market and do not impose new obligations on member states. i consider that all these steps are necessary to ensure security in the labour market. the eu and its member states need to act together to improve the efficiency of labour market policies and boost employability. lithuania, like other member states, can make all these target measures more efficient by improving cooperation with each other in enforcing the rights of workers from other eu countries.
in writing. - the document adopted today is the result of lengthy interinstitutional negotiations. unfortunately, its text is much more lenient than the original position of the european parliament, including on the legal regulation of liquid hydrocarbons. however, in the light of the complexity of the eu legislative procedure, even this text can be seen as a step forward in the transparency of the environmental impact assessment system.
in writing. - it should be noted that during the 28 years of application of the directive, it has been implemented with some success in terms of harmonising the principles of environmental assessment at union level. in order to continue to achieve the objectives pursued, i believe that it is necessary to include shale gas and shale oil within the scope of the directive. it should be noted that the exploitation of these unconventional gas sources poses significant environmental and social risks. the environmental impact assessment of projects must therefore be carried out on a case-by-case basis, as any human intervention is harmful to the environment, especially when drilling to depths of 2 kilometres or more, when using chemical agents to erode rocks and when using land resources for the construction and operation of drilling sites. another important aspect is the simplification and harmonisation of administrative procedures. i think it is appropriate to extend the selection criteria for projects. the 'one-stop-shop' approach to eia should be applied more effectively in the member states in order to align the procedure with possible environmental impact assessments. i believe that member states should be allowed to set stricter rules to protect the environment and human health.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because the aim of the eastern partnership is to enhance the political, economic and cultural integration of the eastern partners into europe, based on shared values and shared interests. the vilnius summit has highlighted the need to strengthen the strategic dimension of the eastern partnership. the current momentum in relations with the eastern partners should be used to encourage the peoples of the eastern partnership countries to pursue further democratic reforms. the eastern partnership countries that are most committed to strengthening relations with the eu and are willing to undertake the necessary reforms and implement them at both political and economic levels should therefore be given due consideration and support, thus providing an incentive for further european integration. the key to building a strong and lasting partnership with the eastern partnership countries is a process of democratic transition based on the rule of law and respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. civil society also plays an important role in the democratic transition and reform processes and in political dialogue in the eastern partnership countries.
in writing. - i'm backing the message. the time has come for a comprehensive review of the eastern partnership policy in order to make it more effective. the clear prospect of eu membership would undoubtedly provide a major impetus for reform. the commission has already put forward some good and operational solutions adapted to the situation in moldova and ukraine. i think the commission should review all the instruments available and the council should provide the political and strategic direction. i would point out that the ep supports joint research between the eu and the eastern partnership countries on the legacy of nazism and communism, totalitarian regimes and a common european history, including through the europe for citizens programme and in cooperation with the platform of european memory and conscience. i believe that a common discussion of the recent past, which has much to do with a common approach to current events, would make a significant contribution to better mutual understanding and would also help to understand the root causes of russia's actions today. much of the blackmail and pressure on the eastern neighbourhood countries is carried out through the information field. the eu must therefore pay greater attention to media and information dissemination issues. in addition, given the growing number of refugees from occupied crimea, the eu should contribute to ensuring their resettlement by providing humanitarian assistance.
in writing. - to strengthen and develop the eu's relations with the eastern partnership countries, a more effective european neighbourhood policy and a more flexible use of the eu's instruments are needed. in particular, a genuine multilateral dimension to the eastern partnership should be developed in order to improve good neighbourly relations, strengthen regional cooperation and overcome bilateral differences. the process of transition to democracy by the parties shall be based on the rule of law and respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. greater attention should be paid to citizens of the eastern partnership countries, especially young people. another important aspect is energy security and cooperation. it is worth noting that the societies of the eastern partnership countries need strong, proactive and urgent eu support. this support should take a variety of forms and policy sectors and cover a wide range of aspects, from financial support to visa facilitation programmes. corruption remains a widespread problem that requires urgent action. the partners should do more to combat this problem.
in writing. - the eu's relations with the eastern partnership countries are becoming increasingly important. the issues of this partnership were raised frequently in the eu member states, especially during the lithuanian presidency. the decision by the ukrainian leadership not to sign the association agreement with the eu at the vilnius summit in november and the subsequent revolutionary events in ukraine have brought the region's concerns to the agendas of eu institutions and national governments almost daily, and to the headlines of european newspapers. i voted in favour of this report because it makes ambitious proposals for developing the european union's relations with its eastern neighbours. the rapporteur calls for the eu member states to provide tangible financial support to the eastern partnership countries, to remove barriers to trade, to introduce a visa-free regime in order to develop people-to-people relations, despite the economic crisis. the eu should also focus on the youth of its eastern neighbours, ensuring that their leaders have a future linked to the eu.
in writing. - this very important report provides some incentives for the eastern partnershipʼs political approach in different sectors of cooperation between eastern partnership countries and the eu. the eu as a community based on eu values and principles needs to show consistency in its eastern partnership policy and needs to take the lead in ensuring that the aforementioned policy functions well. the messages reflected in this report are relevant in the current context of relations with the eastern partners and are crucial to the credibility of the eu as a player in external relations which supports the eu aspirations of its eastern neighbours. i welcome this report and agree on its core messages underlining the euʼs proactive approach in its relations with its eastern partners. i consider the eastern partnership project needs to be assessed on its effectiveness, especially in light of recent events. further reflection on its comprehensive vision and functioning with regard to its eastern neighbours is needed. taking into consideration the lessons learnt after the eastern partnership summit in vilnius, the eu needs to reflect further on the strategy and steps that could lead to an improvement of the aforementioned policy.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it is important to develop a common approach between judges and prosecutors to eu criminal law and to strengthen mutual trust. the commission should progressively extend the scope of the justice scoreboard to a stand-alone and comprehensive justice scoreboard, which uses objective indicators to assess all areas of justice, including criminal justice, and all horizontal issues related to justice, such as the independence, efficiency and integrity of judges, their careers and the safeguarding of the procedural rights of parties. in addition, the commission should involve all relevant actors and build on the positive and negative experience gained, as well as on the work already carried out in this field by the council of europe bodies and the european union agency for fundamental rights in relation to the evaluation of the rule of law and justice systems.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it is essential to ensure non-discriminatory, transparent and open access to the internet for all users and providers of audiovisual services. in fact, net neutrality the internet based on the principle of best efforts, non-discriminatory access to and non-discriminatory transmission of any audiovisual content ensures the pluralistic provision of information and the diversity of opinions and cultures. therefore, an aspect of integrated media integrity, similar to the principle of mandatory transmission, is necessary. the european parliament therefore calls on the commission to ensure that the principles of net neutrality are respected, as this is necessary in view of the convergence of media. the availability and accessibility of audiovisual services for the general public is becoming a key issue in the integrated environment. net neutrality is a guarantee of non-discriminatory transmission of all content. end-users should have access to the content and services they want, and access providers should not be able to restrict consumers' freedom of choice. however, the mere transmission of non-discriminatory content is not sufficient. in future, it will be important to ensure that programmes are not only accessible on individual transmission channels but also that they can be found in content access areas.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because all citizens of the european union need to know their rights and how to exercise them. i welcome the commission's initiatives to raise awareness of citizens' rights through the 'europe direct' information centres and the 'your europe' portal. i also think that more information on european citizenship could be provided on 9 may[n] on the occasion of europe day. member states could give greater emphasis to political education on eu affairs in their school curricula and adapt teacher training accordingly, and provide the necessary practical experience and resources to this end. accessible education plays a key role in the development of future citizens, providing them with a solid common knowledge base, promoting personal empowerment, solidarity and mutual understanding, and strengthening social cohesion. it is also important enough that national, regional and local authorities promote a better understanding of eu citizenship and explain its practical benefits to each individual.
in writing. - european union citizens represent the core of the eu and are the symbol for the future development of the eu. that is why it is extremely important for the eu that all citizens are aware of their rights and do not face obstacles in exercising them. to achieve that, the eu should take many steps to provide their citizens with all practical information on economic, administrative, legal and cultural issues and to promote a better understanding of eu citizenship. i welcome this report aimed at strengthening the direct link between eu citizens and the eu. i strongly believe that all the measures addressed in the report are extremely crucial in bringing eu citizens closer to the eu. the more eu citizens acknowledge their rights and make full use of them, the more the eu can benefit from it. lithuania is still facing a serious lack of citizens’ initiatives and participation in the eu decision-making process. that is why lithuania and other member states need to take more measures to enable citizens to participate more closely in the decision-making process. closer coordination and exchange of best practices between member states can be one such measure.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because the establishment of the european public prosecutor's office is a step forward in the cooperation between member states in the field of criminal justice. for example, coordination with eurojust, olaf and europol will be useful and complementary to criminal prosecution, in order to ensure full judicial cooperation in criminal matters and to concentrate important national expertise in one institution, with the participation of all member states where possible. the european parliament notes the need to review the measures of jurisdiction applicable to the determination of the competent court, the means of investigation of offences falling within the secondary competence of the public prosecutor's office, the admissibility of evidence, as well as the termination of the investigation of cases. it also recalls certain principles and rights in the field of procedural guarantees which enhance the protection of suspects without weakening the investigation of and sanctions for criminal offences. finally, it is proposed to create an institution with a flexible and uncomplicated structure, which would ensure high standards of independence, experience and professionalism and be able to meet the demands of thorough investigation, rapid decision-making and knowledge of the realities of the countries where crimes are committed.
in writing. - cooperation between eu member states in the field of criminal justice is essential, and the establishment of a european public prosecutor's office would allow member states not only to better fight fraud and protect the eu's financial interests, but also to ensure full legal cooperation by coordinating their activities with olaf, eurojust and europol. i support this report and hope that the creation of the european public prosecutor's office will ensure independent and professional investigations in the field of criminal law and promote the dissemination of good practice in the eu.
in writing. - during the lithuanian presidency, after a three-year break in the eu accession negotiations with turkey, a new negotiating chapter was opened. turkey is a strategic partner of the eu and the potential of the eu-turkey relationship can best be realised through an active and credible accession process. i support the ep's position and the proposals it makes on further reforms and the work needed to strengthen the partnership.
in writing. - i voted for this report because the eu and its member states make a very important contribution to research in the arctic. large research projects in the region supported by eu programmes, including the new horizon 2020 framework programme, and the european structural and investment funds, also benefit the people and economies of the arctic countries. the european parliament draws attention to the economic potential of europe's arctic and sub-arctic regions and to various sectors such as tourism, maritime industry and shipping, renewable energy, environmental and clean technologies, gas and oil, offshore industry, forestry and timber industry, mining, transport services and communications, information technology, fisheries and aquaculture, as well as agriculture and traditional livelihoods such as reindeer farming. it is therefore essential to recognise their impact and importance for the region and europe as a whole, by focusing on the activities of european business, research and development actors.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, we understand how important it is to speak with one voice against human rights violations in order to achieve the best possible result and how important it is to strengthen cooperation and enhance coordination among member states and among eu institutions. in our draft resolution, we reiterate our belief that elections to the united nations human rights council need to be competitive and we oppose uncontested elections by regional groups. i would like to express my deep concern about human rights abuses in a number of newly-elected members of the human rights council, namely cuba, vietnam and russia. the last, for instance, just weeks ago violated international law by invading the sovereign country of ukraine. i would like to stress the importance of standards for human rights council membership as regards commitment and performance in the human rights field, and i urge the member states to insist on such standards when defining the candidates they will vote for. human rights council members are required to uphold the highest standards in the promotion and protection of human rights. i also believe that strong and transparent criteria for reinstating suspended members are necessary. on behalf of the epp, i would like to commend the united nations high commissioner for human rights, navi pilley, for her continued efforts in the treaty body strengthening processes. at the same time, we regret the fact that the space for interaction between civil society and the human rights council is shrinking and that ngos are being offered fewer opportunities to speak at the sessions. the eu and the human rights council should ensure that civil society is allowed to contribute as fully as possible to all united nations human rights mechanisms. i look forward to our resolution being adopted tomorrow.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr[nbsp ] president, minister, today we are not only debating a technical resolution on the eu priorities for the 25th[nbsp ]session of the united nations human rights council, we are also expressing our views regarding current events in the various corners of the world, reflecting on the past and creating a future vision, and trying to strategise and shape the very core of our union’s efforts and values: the promotion of human rights in the world. the un human rights council should be the prime forum for effective high-quality discussion and for decisions based on full and morally uncompromised dedication to the protection of human rights. i, like colleagues from my political group, am concerned about the human rights abuses in a number of newly-elected member countries of the un human rights council, including algeria, china, cuba, morocco, russia, saudi arabia and vietnam, and we call on these countries to do their utmost to improve their human-rights situation at home. we have submitted an amendment to that end and would urge all other political groups to support it. in russia the human-rights situation has become virtually as dire as it was at the time of the soviet union. developments such as the foreign agent law, the repression of freedom of expression, association and assembly, and the anti-lgbti laws are all huge steps backwards, in contrast to the positive efforts which russia made during the first post-soviet years. on another note, i was pleased to see that a reference to caste-based discrimination was included in the resolution. let parliament keep talking about it, let the eu keep talking about it and, most importantly, let us finally do something to resolve this human-rights abuse which is so serious and so widespread yet so sadly and unacceptably neglected by the international community. lastly, let us not forget tibet. tibet is not one of the eu priorities for this session of the un human rights council, but it should be. the precarious situation of the tibetan people is an absolutely vital question which should be at the forefront of eu human rights policies. i urge the eu to ensure that realpolitik and relations with the big strategic partners do not lead to the fate of a whole nation being swallowed up and forgotten.
for the efd group human rights and freedoms the building blocks of society. one of the most important, by the way. the world is striving to guarantee to every individual freedom of belief and speech, free democratic elections. unfortunately, these rights and freedoms are often not only brutally mentioned but also subtly restricted. the resolution adopted in this house on 6 february on bosnia and herzegovina's 13th annual progress report. in other words, if the ruling of the european court of human rights is not implemented, the legitimacy of the elections of the last 14 years will be called into question. i am talking about bosnia and herzegovina, which is a country that is not a member of the european union. i believe that the european parliament should defend human rights not only in the candidate countries but also in the member states. the principles of democracy must never be ignored.
in writing. - i welcome the commission's proposal to set up an asylum and migration fund, which will help achieve the union's strategic objectives and bring a clear added value to europe. it is essential that the fund be based on simplified operating rules, which will speed up procedures and reduce administrative burdens. the new mechanisms for the provision and use of funding should ensure easier and faster access to funding for key beneficiaries on the one hand, and a more operational, efficient and flexible response to emergencies on the other. the new financial instrument must be more effective, flexible and comprehensive. a more results-oriented approach should be established, enhancing the coherence of the different asylum-related measures through the implementation of the mechanisms in place. it is essential to ensure that the actions financed have a clear added value for europe and contribute to the achievement of objectives consistent with union policies.
in writing. - i agree with the report. the 'three' helped greece, portugal, ireland and cyprus to overcome the crisis, but its structure and methods of operation have put national governments' efforts to manage the crisis into the background. it should be noted that all this had a negative impact on the transparency of the process, confused accountability and had a negative impact on the labour markets of these countries. in this context, it is essential that the proposed economic reform measures are reviewed in the near future and that the troika's actions to rescue indebted eu countries are assessed. in addition, budgetary control mechanisms need to be strengthened. moreover, commitments to structural reforms remain a prerequisite for financial support in the euro area. i think it is appropriate to create a single financial support instrument that would apply to all eu member states. all of this would enable the union and its institutions to address, in a rapid, effective and duly democratically legitimised manner, challenges that could pose a threat to the economic, financial and social stability of the euro area and its member states in the future.
in writing. - i voted for this report. in particular, it is necessary to guarantee the sustainability of public finances and to ensure adequate social protection for citizens. the particularly severe economic and financial crisis in greece, ireland, portugal and cyprus and the adjustment policies implemented by these countries have led to an increase in unemployment and job losses. it should be noted that the expectations of restoring economic growth and job creation through internal devaluation measures to restore competitiveness have not been fulfilled. it is a pity that the youth unemployment rate is still the highest. therefore, the fight against poverty, in particular child poverty, should remain one of the objectives pursued by the member states. i think there is a lack of effort to identify the weaknesses in health systems and in the decisions to cut the overall health budget. the drop in the number of out-of-school children in these four countries is encouraging, but there are no positive trends in the quality of education systems, mainly due to cutbacks in public funding. i believe that the commission should carry out a thorough study of the social and economic consequences of the economic and financial crisis in these countries and of the adjustment programmes implemented to overcome it, and should pay greater attention to social imbalances and their correction.
in writing. - i voted for this report. i agree with the proposal that an integrated approach is needed to address the problems arising from the scale of migration and the number of asylum applications and to address issues relating to the management of the union's external borders, ensuring full respect for international and human rights law, including in the case of actions in third countries, showing solidarity among all member states and recognising the need to fulfil national obligations while ensuring clear targets. it is essential that the new financing structure in the field of home affairs simplifies the rules applied and reduces the administrative burden on beneficiaries. however, in all cases an effective control mechanism must be maintained. it is also essential to ensure sound financial management and effective implementation, while ensuring transparency, legal certainty, access to funding and a level playing field for beneficiaries. in this context, it is appropriate to define forms of support and harmonised eligibility conditions for expenditure, including simplified payment modalities.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it is important to ensure a high overall level of security of network and information systems. as early as 2010, the digital agenda for europe called for the establishment of legal instruments aimed at developing a policy of high levels of network and information security. a major disruption of the interfaces between network and information systems in one member state may have a negative impact on other member states and the european union as a whole. the reliability and stability of network and information systems, as well as the continuity of essential services, are crucial aspects of the smooth functioning of the internal market, in particular in view of the further development of the digital single market. therefore, in order to increase the effectiveness of the proposed measures, the european parliament considers that this directive should initially apply only to certain operators, it should help to ensure the security of investments already made in network and information systems and avoid duplication of institutional structure and obligations imposed on market participants. furthermore, this directive should support the development of trust-based relationships and exchanges between public and private sector actors and should encourage a culture of risk management instead of a temporary counter-productive culture of compliance.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it is necessary to establish a regulatory framework for the placing on the market, free movement and putting into service of radio equipment and telecommunications terminal equipment in the european union. the directive, as presented by the commission, lays down essential requirements relating to health and safety, electromagnetic compatibility and the prevention of harmful interference. as in other new approach legislation, these requirements form the technical requirements that belong to the non-binding harmonised standards. the number of mobile and wireless devices has increased dramatically in recent years. there is therefore a risk of interference between different products. therefore, the efficient use of radio spectrum is of paramount importance. the european parliament welcomes the commission's proposal for this directive. however, it also proposes to include horizontal and vertical amendments to avoid unnecessary administrative burden, which would have a particularly significant impact on smes, while ensuring a very high level of consumer protection, the most efficient use of radio spectrum, improved market surveillance and greater coherence with the new legal framework and to remove possible textual inconsistencies that could give rise to legal uncertainty.
as a co-author of this resolution, i am very pleased that parliament has finally taken a rather firm stand on the issue of russia's invasion of ukraine. putin's russia is unpredictable, it violates international agreements and international law, it does not allow diplomats to enter crimea, it does not allow observers from international organizations. blocking the channels, the information space. i want to draw attention to the pressure on the crimean tatars. they are the people who are for territorial integrity. their houses are marked with signs like in 1944 when stalin had them deported to siberia. it's also a propaganda thing. the russian people are forced to live in a world war ii mood. the euromaidan, europe is called fascist, nazi, anti-semitic. sanctions are required against those who threaten the territorial integrity of ukraine. and i am very pleased about one very important provision in this resolution, the arms embargo. those countries that sell arms to russia should seriously consider whether they are not acting against themselves and against europe and the world.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because the european parliament's decisionmaking powers have changed with the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. the purpose of this report is therefore to assess the implementation of the treaty of lisbon, in particular by analysing the impact of the main changes it has brought about on relations between the european parliament and the european commission since the treaty entered into force. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. this report provides an assessment of the european parliament and the commission's activities and cooperation in these areas. it can be said that the european parliament has succeeded in gaining recognition for its new powers and its role as one of the responsible legislative bodies, and that considerable progress has been made in its relations with the commission. however, a number of issues and shortcomings remain, in particular in relation to information sharing, delegated and implementing acts, impact assessment, approach to legislative initiatives and parliamentary questions - all of which need to be addressed more closely and in which more vigilance is required.
in writing. - the lisbon treaty has given the european parliament greater political power in the legislative and eu governance processes. the 2014 european parliament elections and the approval of the new european commission the time when these powers will have to be put into practice and the president and commissioners of the european commission will have to be appointed in the light of the results of the european elections. i welcome these developments and encourage the governments of the member states to take them into account.
in writing. - i believe that, without prejudice to the strengthening of parliament's powers of scrutiny, excessive parliamentarisation of the system should be avoided and the principle of separation of powers respected. i am in favour of establishing a strictly equivalent system of rotation between commissioners with a portfolio and commissioners without a portfolio, taking into account the demographic and geographical coverage of all member states. all members of the commission should retain the same legal status. parliament has succeeded in gaining recognition for its new mandate and role, and there has been significant progress in its relations with the commission, but a number of issues and shortcomings remain, in particular in relation to information sharing, delegated and implementing acts, impact assessment, approach to legislative initiatives and parliamentary questions, which need to be addressed more closely.
in writing. - i voted for this report because ensuring land rights and greater equity in land use creates a secure basis for livelihoods, economic opportunities and, in rural areas, for household food production. the universal declaration of human rights states that 'everyone has the right to own property, both individually and in association with others', and that 'no one shall be arbitrarily deprived of his property'. yet, 1.2 billion people worldwide are enjoying property without formal rights, living without permanent homes or access to land. in addition to private land ownership, a variety of other legal forms of land use should be recognised, including the use of customary land-use systems, in order to legally protect rights to private land, agricultural land and natural resources, as called for in the united nations programme on human settlements.
in writing. - i voted for this report. i believe that ensuring land rights and more equitable use of land creates a secure foundation for livelihoods, economic opportunities and domestic food production. it is essential that, in addition to private land ownership, various other legal forms of land use should be recognised and rights to residential land, agricultural land and natural resources legally protected. it should be noted that the security of legal land use by smallholders stimulates the local economy, increases food security, reduces migration and slows down the development of slums in cities. we need to work together as quickly as possible to bridge the gap between the rule of law, legality and practice. i condemn the practice of land grabbing. land reform should be flexible, adapted to local, social and cultural conditions, empower the most vulnerable, recognise the legality of customary land use arrangements and prevent the expropriation and abuse of land rights. the eu must work to ensure that people have access to social protection and insurance systems and can protect their livelihoods and assets in the event of an accident or a shock. the commission should set a clear budget line and focus not on a narrow perspective but on long-term land management reform; there is a need to strengthen policy instruments to ensure equal access to property for women and men in developing countries.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because there should be greater coordination of member states' policies and programmes in order to avoid fragmentation and duplication. moreover, better coordination and coordination of policies would reduce administrative burdens and related costs. the european parliament therefore calls on the commission to respect its commitments in the fields of development and human rights and recalls their role in promoting and coordinating union policies in various fields. it also considers that the commission should actively promote the idea of a coherent and modern human development in order to achieve the millennium development goals and respect the commitments. it also calls for better alignment of migration management with development policies of the eu and partner countries. however, this requires a strategy that takes account of political, social, economic and cultural circumstances and that aims at a general revival of the union's relations with its immediate neighbours.
in writing. - i agree. the eu has for many years been a leader in providing development cooperation across the world. we can do even more if we properly implement development cooperation policy, reduce fragmentation and duplication of member states' policies and programmes. this requires better coordination of eu member states' development policies and aid programmes. it is estimated that the reduction in transfer costs alone could save almost eur 800 million per year. proper coordination would reduce the administrative burden and related costs. this would provide an opportunity to make an even greater contribution to the global challenges of poverty, food insecurity and climate change, with a view to accelerating the achievement of the agreed millennium development goals.
in writing. - i voted for this report. policy coherence for development has become a common policy instrument aimed at preventing inconsistencies arising from union policies in order to avoid adverse consequences for developing countries. i believe that the eu, the member states and the partner institutions should seek to include in the new post-2015 development goals the policy coherence for development objective, which allows for the development of reliable indicators to assess the progress made by donors and the southern partners and the impact of policies in different areas on development. the commission's impact assessment system needs to be improved, ensuring that development becomes the fourth main element to be examined, alongside economic, social and environmental impacts. the method and mechanisms for achieving optimal compatibility should be given the utmost attention in order to avoid any inconsistency. the eu must have an independent body to formally collect and deal with complaints from citizens and communities affected by the various union policies.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because the european union and its member states should strive to take a united stand and speak out against human rights violations in order to achieve the best possible results and, in this context, should further strengthen cooperation between member states and the eu institutions and improve the organisational arrangements and coordination of their activities. the european parliament seeks to increase the effectiveness and visibility of the eu's human rights policy and to help implement the strategic programme and the action plan on human rights and democracy. parliament called for the fight against corruption to be stepped up in the public and private sectors, as these actions promote and increase inequalities and discrimination which impede the equal enjoyment of civil, political, economic, social and cultural rights. the report also calls for action to combat discrimination against women and people with disabilities, to protect children from all forms of exploitation and to combat violence against women and girls.
in writing. - i voted yes. coordination of the eu's position at the un summit is important, as nine eu countries are currently members of the council. however, i would like to note that russia, which has just been elected to the un security council, is a member, its aggression against ukraine is difficult to understand in the context and can discredit this international institution, reduce its effectiveness. it is also regrettable that the text of the resolution does not address the issue of human rights violations in tibet.
in writing. we often hear in our own countries that the issues dealt with by the european parliament are far from the people. i would disagree with that. this document we're looking at is just a demonstration of how the decisions we make affect people's lives. the first decisions at eu level on the limitation of roaming charges were welcomed in 2007, but now, from a modern perspective, when we are considering the total abolition of roaming charges, they seem hopelessly outdated. by making roaming and data communications as good as local calls, we are making a major contribution to both the free movement of persons and better protection of european consumers. i congratulate the rapporteur and welcome one of the best examples of how we in the european parliament make consumer-friendly decisions.
in writing. the stockholm programme has made good progress towards the goal of creating an area of freedom, security and justice, but it is important to note that in some areas more needs to be done to protect the rights of our citizens. the stockholm programme aims to ensure human rights and facilitate the free movement of citizens and residents of the european union, while protecting and respecting all rights and obligations related to the european area of justice. judicial cooperation is a key tool to achieve this objective and the continued efforts of the eu institutions and member states to make progress towards universal support for the international criminal court as one of the key actors in ensuring justice for victims of crimes under international law and promoting respect for international humanitarian and human rights law should be welcomed. the establishment of adequate accountability procedures is therefore essential for the effective protection and promotion of human rights and the implementation of a legitimate and effective security policy based on the rule of law. the commission should propose an accountability mechanism to strengthen the capacity of the eu and the member states to prevent human rights violations at eu level.
in writing. mr president, the european union's approach to external action is important in the development of a common policy on international aid. major geostrategic changes are taking place in many countries of the world, in particular with a view to creating multilateralism on an international scale, which increases the interdependence of countries and continents. in the face of such geopolitical moods, the european union must preserve its values and promote them internationally. member states must better fulfil their obligations by actively promoting external relations with third countries requiring support and assistance. this is particularly important in the context of humanitarian aid. it is important to remember that compliance with the rules of humanitarian aid (independence, impartiality, neutrality) requires special attention from us. the security of personnel of humanitarian organisations providing humanitarian and humanitarian assistance in crisis depends in particular on the management of the area covered by the assistance. for that reason, they must be independent of biased political influences. the capacity of a humanitarian organisation to provide assistance and humanitarian assistance itself shall not be used for political purposes in any way. to reach the masses, it must not only be neutral but also visible. only an integrated approach can ensure the necessary assistance to countries and support the fight against poverty.
in writing. - i supported the proposal because, in the light of an ageing population, changing working conditions, persistent incentives to retire early, the financial crisis and changes in production patterns, as well as the need to increase competitiveness, a strong response is needed to enable older workers to remain active in the labour market, including when they are already at retirement age. ensuring the employability of older workers and keeping a large proportion of older people in their jobs for longer is crucial to tackling demographic challenges and achieving the eu's target of increasing employment of 20-64 year olds to 75% by 2020. calls for the removal of all obstacles to the promotion of active ageing and for support for lifelong learning, in particular in the acquisition of new skills and technical abilities such as computer skills and foreign languages. stresses that lifelong learning for older people should be firmly integrated into working life and that these policies should be continuously monitored, evaluated and improved. the commission should identify specific measures for disadvantaged groups or categories of vulnerable workers to help member states better define key priorities, strategies and sustainable projects eligible for esf funding for the coming period 2014-2020.
in writing. - i agree. in this recommendation, the european parliament, one of the leading institutions in the field of human rights and freedoms, advocates that the european union should introduce targeted restrictive measures against the specific individuals responsible for the death of sergei magnitsky and the subsequent impunity of the officials involved. in the light of the magnitsky act adopted by the united states, the impact of sanctions is likely to be stronger if applied in a coordinated manner. s. and magnitsky's case, particularly painful, illustrates the self-imposed bias and ambiguity that has taken hold throughout the russian legal system. as a member of the council of europe, the organisation for security and cooperation in europe and the united nations, russia has committed itself to protecting and promoting human rights, fundamental freedoms and the rule of law, but we have recently seen a sad trend of systematic breaches of commitments. this is the position taken by the european parliament to the european council. i hope that the foreign affairs council will take appropriate and immediate decisions in line with this position of the ep.
in writing. - i agree. the eu, which is not a member of the un, has to define positions on the most important climate change, development cooperation, the protection of women's and children's rights and other key issues, guidelines that all eu member states participating in the un general assembly agree to follow. a united position of the eu countries in the un general assembly on the issue of russian aggression against ukraine is necessary. the fact that a permanent member of the un security council has grossly and recklessly violated not only bilateral agreements and international commitments but also the principles of the un charter is the biggest shock to the international system in recent years, the foundations of which are laid and the observance of which should be ensured by the un, and this must not be ignored.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this proposal because the independent european broadcasting media offer a common vision to the european and global community, support certain values enshrined in the eu treaties, such as human rights and fundamental freedoms, including freedom of expression, and promote pluralism, independent thinking, cultural diversity, pluralism of opinion and the fundamental values of non-violent conflict resolution, tolerance and respect, both in the eu and in external relations. the european broadcasting media can have a significant impact internationally, worldwide, by spreading information about the values of democracy, media freedom and human rights, explaining different national perceptions, shaping a genuine european perspective and providing a reliable, high-quality information to the audience, and above all, by a firm, unwavering commitment to journalistic objectivity. i agree that eu external assistance funding for projects should be allocated to broadcasters that meet the highest standards of journalistic independence, accuracy and balance and that follow and promote eu values, and to projects that enable those broadcasters that fall short of the standards of independence, accuracy and sustainability to achieve those standards, given that in the future any funding should be conditional on performance evaluation using measurable criteria.
in writing. - in today’s developing world european media broadcasting is an important tool for supporting and promoting european values and freedoms such as human rights, freedom of expression and journalistic pluralism. in addition, radio and online media are also effective ways to communicate eu policies, to reach a wide audience in the eu and beyond and to ensure objective news coverage. this recommendation to the council, the commission and the european external action service underlines the importance of broadcasting inside and outside the eu and proposes to make the broadcasting strategy an integrated tool of the common foreign and security policy. i welcome this useful proposal that puts an emphasis on effectively ensuring the broadest outreach to the public audience in the eu and in third countries. i believe that a competitive media environment is vital for developing society in various member states, including lithuania. the access to independent and diversified broadcasting media is a precondition for a conscious society in the eu and its vicinity. diversified broadcasting media can also help every citizen to stay in touch with the changes of the globalised world and to be at the forefront of the digital revolution.
in writing. - i supported the establishment of limit values for vehicle categories m1 to m3 (passenger vehicles) and n1 to n3 (freight vehicles) in three stages, the first starting on 1 january 2017. for example, the limit value for passenger cars will be reduced to 68 db over time. the commission will also carry out an assessment of the conditions and information for the labelling of air pollution and noise levels and the impact on consumers, and manufacturers will have to make efforts to provide information on vehicle noise levels at the point of sale and in technical promotional material. i also agree with the importance of protecting blind and other vulnerable people in electric vehicles by installing appropriate audible vehicle warning systems. such systems should be mandatory. it is agreed that this will start to apply within three years of the date of application of the regulation for new types of vehicles and within five years for all electric and hybrid vehicles. the importance of road surface issues and their impact on reducing vehicle noise levels is also important. the commission should develop informative guidelines on road quality improvement technologies and best practices for road classification, based on information provided by member states.
in writing. - in the context of the application of regulation (ec) no 1760/2000 establishing a system for the identification and registration of bovine animals and regarding the labelling of beef and beef products and repealing council regulation (ec) no 820/97 and in accordance with the provisions of directive 64/432/eec, the member states have set up computerised databases containing information on bovine animals present on their territory. to date, these databases do not take into account the fact that the technology for electronic marking of bovine animals has been developed. in the context of the review of regulation (ec) no 1760/2000 and in order to allow for the gradual and harmonised development of this new technology, it is appropriate to adapt the principles for the collection of these data and to align them with the other two means of identification of bovine animals. directive 64/432/eec should therefore be amended accordingly. i voted in favour of the amendments proposed by the commission to the provisions relating to computerised databases. this review, which is a direct consequence of the amendment of regulation (ec) no 1760/2000, is necessary and appropriate.
in writing. - i supported the proposal as the eu currently lacks a horizontal legislative framework to enforce its rights under the wto and other international trade agreements. in a world of increasing retaliation, the legitimate aim of the proposed measure is to better ensure the enforcement of the eu's trade rights, to enhance the eu's credibility and, ultimately, to convince our trading partners to adhere to the rules of conduct set out in trade agreements. this proposal is also part of the strategy of the european union to open up new markets and brings its decision-making process into line with the provisions of the lisbon treaty. this new measure should also be understood in the context of the multilateral (mro), regional and bilateral dispute settlement rules framework, under which the complaining party already has the right to take extreme measures, i.e. provisional defensive retaliation against the infringing party, if the latter does not comply with the rules laid down by the dispute settlement body. the measure does not therefore pursue any protectionist objective.
in writing. - i support the speaker's position. measures to enforce wto and other international trade agreements are often lacking at eu level. the provisions on the application of retaliatory measures are an important instrument of eu trade policy. while they will be applied only as a last resort, they will allow for a rapid response to problems that arise, while encouraging third countries to comply with international trade rules. only by creating a free, open and predictable trading system can we ensure sustainable growth and competitiveness in the eu.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal because it aims to update european legislation in the light of technological and scientific progress and to address recent concerns about certain aspects of patient safety. the hundreds of thousands of different types of medical devices currently on the market in the european union - from patches, syringes, catheters and blood sampling devices to complex implants and life support technologies - are required to be safe not only for patients but also for healthcare professionals who use or handle them and for non-specialists who come into contact with them. i am convinced that it is necessary to ensure high standards of quality and safety of medical devices, thereby ensuring a high level of protection of health and safety of patients, users and other persons.
in writing. - i have agreed to these proposals, which will help to substantially improve patient safety. ivd medical devices are not a small item but one of the most important medical devices and can be the basis for all therapies, including pharmaceuticals and surgery. without proper diagnosis, there is no proper treatment or prevention of disease. unfortunately, the current directive does not ensure that low-quality iud medical devices are not placed on the market. this proposal therefore seeks to remedy this situation.
in writing. - i supported the proposal because the new accounts will contribute to the further development of more detailed indicators to develop better public debates and shape policy. as the national statistical institutes are currently facing financial and staff constraints, it is now important to focus on improving quality and to encourage the use of the already existing modules and those proposed by the commission in the current proposal. it is important that the additional administrative burden be limited to the most essential aspects. the current pace of change and the uncertainties surrounding possible future trends call for further action to ensure that policy in the union continues to be conducted on the basis of sound knowledge of the state of the environment and of the possible response alternatives and their consequences. to ensure that reliable quality data and indicators are produced and that they are more accessible, measures should be put in place. it is important that such data are provided in an understandable and accessible form
in writing. - this report, which is the result of an awareness-raising campaign involving representatives of the eu institutions, the economic and social committee, the committee of regions, concord and civil society, underlines the need to put the spotlight on the eu’s global role in international development. at a time of economic recession and economic and political crisis, it is important to acknowledge that there are more than 100 million poor people in the eu. that is why strong coordinated action by the eu and its member states is required. the european year of development 2015 will provide such an opportunity to create public awareness of poverty and can become the first year dedicated to a global theme. i welcome this report which puts an emphasis on tackling the major challenges of anti-poverty targets. the european year of development 2015 can be a year for excellent cooperation between the eesc, the eu institutions and civil society, and a year that will gather broad support from people inside and outside the eu. for that, coordinated action by all 28 member states in this field will be required to make 2015 a year of success for the eu’s development policy.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal because union law provides for requirements on food and food and feed safety at all stages of production, including rules aimed at ensuring fair trade and the provision of information to consumers. they also lay down requirements for the prevention and control of infectious animal diseases and zoonoses, as well as for animal welfare, animal by-products, plant health and plant reproductive material, plant variety protection, the placing on the market and use of genetically modified organisms and plant protection products and the sustainable use of pesticides. union law also provides for official controls and other official activities aimed at ensuring the effective implementation of those requirements and their compliance. the general objective of union law in those areas is to contribute to a high level of human, animal and plant health throughout the food chain, a high level of consumer protection and information and a high level of environmental protection, while promoting competitiveness and job creation. to achieve that overall objective, adequate financial resources are needed. it is therefore necessary that the union contribute to the financing of measures taken in the various fields to achieve that general objective. in addition, in order to make more efficient use of expenditure, specific objectives and indicators to assess how those objectives will be achieved should be set.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal as it establishes a flegt licensing scheme (forest enforcement, forest management and trade in timber) to combat illegal logging and the related trade. under the flegt scheme, the partner countries commit to ensuring that there are checks and controls to help determine whether the timber products are made from legally harvested local timber or from timber that has been legally imported into the partner country. the placing of illegally obtained timber on the eu market is an infringement.
in writing. - i support this report. to remain competitive in clinical research, we need to maintain high standards and promote the application of the latest research in this field. i also welcome the fact that the measures envisaged in the report aim to reduce bureaucratic burdens and provide for the establishment of national compensation schemes to encourage research into rare diseases. clinical trials are the area where we need to be transparent and clear.
in writing. - i supported the proposal to strengthen the current regulatory framework for nuclear safety in the community. the importance of preventing incidents and accidents and of responding effectively should an incident or accident occur should be emphasised. accident preparedness and coordination should be the cornerstone of nuclear safety. following the 2011 fukushima nuclear accident in japan, there has been a renewed global focus on the measures needed to reduce the risk of nuclear accidents and to increase nuclear safety, as well as on testing to assess the risks and safety of nuclear power plants in the european union in detail.
in writing. - the fukushima accident has prompted a careful examination of whether we have done everything we can to ensure the highest standards of nuclear safety across the eu. the european parliament, by this decision, endorses the need to continue the development of the eu nuclear safety framework, to promote continuous improvement of nuclear safety in all eu countries, ensuring it at all stages of the operation of the relevant installations, and to strengthen the resilience to man-made or natural hazards. by strengthening nuclear safety standards in the countries of the european union, the eu contributes to the highest international nuclear safety standards and to the development of a nuclear safety culture at international level. unfortunately, even if we ensure the highest standards of nuclear safety in our own countries, we cannot be sure that our citizens will not be exposed to nuclear accidents from third countries until such standards are also applied there. the development of unsafe power projects in the eu's neighbourhood, primarily in belarus, which, despite repeated requests from affected eu countries, does not comply with international procedures and does not provide requested project information, remains a major concern.
in writing. - i agree that ensuring fair taxation for all income groups is not only a moral imperative, but also a highly economically beneficial way of ensuring that the taxes imposed are collected and fully used. the additional revenue would allow member states to make new investments in job creation, growth programmes and infrastructure without imposing any new taxes. we cannot afford to sit idly by while europe is still recovering from the crisis. the current eu efforts to close existing tax loopholes caused by differences in member states' national tax systems, double taxation and extreme forms of undertaxation are leading to significant revenue losses for member states and are creating conditions for unfair competition between companies operating in the single market. in order to ensure fairness, transparency, competition and economic efficiency, the eu must make every effort to ensure that the tax gap is closed without delay.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because the european union should promote the highest level of protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms for all. the human rights chapter of the stockholm programme is in line with this objective, but despite the progress made, more needs to be done to implement this chapter. the european parliament therefore considers that more attention should be paid to responding to the particular situation of vulnerable groups and to strengthening the fight against racism, xenophobia, anti-semitism and religious intolerance. parliament called for a stronger fight against violence against women and children and for more aid to be given to victims of such and other crimes. parliament therefore welcomes the directive setting minimum standards for the rights, support and protection of victims of crime, with particular emphasis on the protection of women and children. it is important to highlight the frequent victimisation of these groups in the context of all forms of violence, including domestic violence.
in writing. - the stockholm programme defines the principles and actions that will create an area of freedom, security and justice for the benefit of citizens. in order to ensure an open and secure european union, it is necessary not only to consolidate the achievements in the areas already identified, including through enhanced cooperation in civil and criminal matters and the mutual recognition of judgments and documents, but also to take account of new challenges. in my view, and as the ep has repeatedly confirmed, one of these challenges is the need to ensure the security of the eu's digital and information space. the exchange of information and good practice in this area must be fully supported, and this requires a stronger coordination of initiatives and actions at eu level. i believe that the macro-regional initiatives currently under discussion, which seek to strengthen cooperation in this area in the baltic region, should be supported by the eu both politically and financially. the openness, reliability and security of the information space is not only a matter of geopolitical importance for the baltic states, but also a matter of concern for the eu as a whole.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal as it is important to continuously improve the efficiency and consistency of the eu's export control regime for strategic goods, ensuring a high level of security and adequate transparency, without creating barriers to competitiveness and to legitimate trade in dual-use goods. the system needs to be modernised and more harmonised in order to take account of new threats and the speed of technological change, reduce distortions, create a genuine common market for dual-use goods (level playing field for exporters) and continue to be an example of export controls to third countries.
in writing. - i supported the agreement reached with the eu council to exempt international flights from the allowance for emissions (atl) scheme by 2017[n 1]. the eu's emissions trading system is fully justified. although the aviation sector currently accounts for around 3% of all greenhouse gas emissions, its pollution is increasing rapidly. the international civil aviation organisation (icao) estimates that the amount of co2 emitted by aviation-related activities almost doubled between 1990 and 2006. for comparison, the amount of co2 emitted from fossil fuels increased by 34%. it can be assumed that by 2020 by which time the eu has committed to reducing its emissions by 20% compared to 1990 the level will have increased by 63% 88%. the problem of global warming can only be effectively addressed by an international approach. neither carbon pollution nor climate change transcends national borders. the same climate policy objectives should therefore be endorsed globally. this is only possible after an agreement has been reached with icao.
in writing. - i agreed to the proposal because consumers are often unaware that payment cards (such as visa or mastercard) are subject to a fee for merchants, which depends on the type of card, the issuing bank and the country. this tax, which costs eu businesses some €10 billion a year, is often passed on to consumers. the draft new rules stipulate that the fee charged by banks for credit card settlement will not exceed 0.3% of the amount transferred, and for debit card settlement 7 euro cents or 0.2% of the amount transferred, whichever is lower. these tax limits would apply to both local and international settlements within the eu. it is expected that in the long term the reduction of this tax will make goods and services cheaper.
in writing. - with the increase in non-cash transactions, the problem of interbank charges is becoming more frequent, which imposes additional costs on consumers, creates barriers and restricts competition. in supporting this report, i hope that the introduction of caps on interbank charges for domestic and crossborder transactions in the eu will contribute to improving the functioning of the internal market and the implementation of the eu principle of free movement of goods, persons, services and capital, and, finally, that these amendments will take greater account of consumer rights.
in writing. - i agree that the situation in ukraine requires urgent decisions. ukraine has been going through a dramatic political period in recent months and the country's new government needs strong and urgent support from the european union to counter external pressure and overcome economic and financial difficulties. the above suggestion is very helpful and understandable. the proposal will help ukrainian enterprises to increase their export volumes and diversify their export destinations by temporarily unilaterally reducing the trade barriers (tariffs, quotas or tariff quotas) to ukrainian goods imported into the eu to the level agreed by both parties under the eu-ukraine comprehensive and universal free trade area (cefta) agreement. in other words, these unilateral concessions will help ukraine to save approximately several hundred million euros in the coming months. for these reasons, the precarious balance of payments situation in ukraine will improve and more foreign currency will enter the country, which will help restore economic and financial stability and reduce the risk of currency devaluation. the eu is giving ukraine every opportunity to restore sound economic conditions in the country through swift and decisive action.
in writing. - the situation in ukraine requires a swift and urgent eu response and assistance. i congratulate the rapporteur on an ambitious communication in which he proposes to reduce the trade barriers (tariffs, quotas or tariff quotas) imposed on ukraine. the proposed measures represent a strong political and economic support for ukraine. i believe that these measures will contribute to the restoration of economic and financial stability in ukraine and to attracting foreign investment, and at the same time to ukraine's own rapprochement with the eu.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because the treaty of lisbon and the current decision-making processes already require the european union to ensure the consistency of its external action in the various fields and the consistency of these with its other policies. a comprehensive eu approach implies not only a joint use of eu instruments and resources, but also a shared responsibility of eu actors and member states, i.e. their policy instruments, actions and support should contribute to a more coordinated and effective eu external action. furthermore, a comprehensive approach is an obligation that is shared by all eu actors in the eu institutions, in the eu member states and in third countries. it is important that its observance takes full account of the specific areas of competence of each institution and entity. the european parliament also calls for active engagement and dialogue with citizens and civil society to ensure a comprehensive approach and, more generally, the legitimacy and common understanding of eu foreign policy.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal because food safety is one of the main concerns of european citizens. european legislation, updated and strengthened as necessary, should therefore ensure their adequate protection. in 1997, following an outbreak of bovine spongiform encephalopathy, the european union adopted strict rules on the identification and traceability of bovine animals. this proposal will enhance the safety of beef offered to consumers. the aim is also to ensure full clarity and applicability of the legislation on the identification and traceability of bovine animals, thus achieving an adequate level of food safety.
in writing. - to ensure that consumers' rights are properly protected and to promote consumer confidence, we must ensure that beef and other meat products are properly labelled and that the product is identifiable and traceable. these provisions should apply not only to products imported from the eu but also to those imported from third countries in order to ensure equivalent protection. the proposals in the report may seem to be an additional bureaucratic burden, but i am confident that the additional checks and the penalties envisaged will help to avoid the risk of fraud in the meat labelling sector and better protect the interests of european consumers.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because the protection of the eu's financial interests is an essential part of the eu's political agenda to promote and enhance citizens' confidence and to ensure that taxpayers' money is used properly. the european commission estimates that billions of euros of tax revenue could be lost every year in the european union as a result of tax fraud, tax evasion, tax avoidance and aggressive tax planning. an integrated approach, including anti-fraud and anti-corruption strategies, with effective, coherent and equivalent legal instruments across the eu is necessary to protect the financial interests of the european union and to fight fraud. the european parliament welcomes the commission's action plan to strengthen the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion. i would like to stress that both the commission and the member states should continue to give the utmost attention to the fight against fraud and tax evasion, which requires a better strategy for multifaceted cooperation and coordination between the commission and the member states, which would allow better use of existing instruments, consolidation of existing legislation, adoption of pending proposals and cooperation at administrative level.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal because tax fraud, tax evasion, tax avoidance and aggressive tax planning can result in the loss of around 1 000 jobs in the european union every year. 000[n] the eu has a budget of eur [000] 000[] of tax revenue, which costs each eu citizen about eur [000] 2 000 per year. the protection of the eu's financial interests is an essential part of the eu's political agenda to promote and enhance citizens' confidence and to ensure that taxpayers' money is used appropriately. the lisbon treaty has substantially improved the measures designed to protect the eu's financial interests and obliges both the eu and its member states to combat all forms of illegal activities adversely affecting the eu's financial interests. however, the wide diversity of eu legal systems and traditions makes the protection of the union's financial interests against fraud and any other illegal activities a very serious problem which requires urgent and unavoidable action to address. in order to protect the financial interests of the union and to fight fraud, an integrated approach involving anti-fraud and anti-corruption strategies, with effective, coherent and equivalent legal instruments throughout the union is necessary. the high level of fraud and the scale of tax evasion and corruption in all its forms undermine citizens' trust in the eu and require greater guarantees in the areas of soundness and transparency of public spending.
today we are discussing a really useful commission proposal which will bring together many directives and other documents into one whole and make european union law clearer. i think that the rapporteurs and the amendments tabled by my colleagues have also done a good job. the main topic of the report is animal health and the control of communicable diseases, but animal welfare and the provision of appropriate storage and transport conditions are inseparable from animal health. i therefore urge my colleagues to support amendments to improve animal welfare. i am pleased that the report clearly emphasises the importance of the responsible use of veterinary medicinal products. preventive use of antibiotics should be discontinued as this can prevent the development of antibiotic resistant bacteria. the active educational role of veterinarians is particularly important here. the member states of the european union should help farmers to exchange examples of best practice and encourage continuous learning in this field. i hope that the new parliament will support our position in the second reading and defend it successfully in the trilogue negotiations.
in writing. - the financial crisis has shown that public authorities are ill-prepared to deal with the problems posed by banks operating in today's global markets and experiencing financial difficulties. the functioning of the eu's banking union governance framework, resolution mechanism and resolution fund is therefore crucial. the current separation between national and eu policies should be removed. it should be noted that the single resolution mechanism will concentrate the crisis management capabilities and core resources of banks in the euro area and will allow for the establishment of an integrated resolution mechanism at eu level. it should be noted that the different national rules currently applied in different member states for the resolution of credit institutions reduce confidence and increase market instability, as the possibility of predicting the possible consequences of a bank failure is not ensured. in this context, it is essential to ensure that a neutral approach is applied in the event of bank failures. this would increase the stability of banks in participating member states, prevent spill-over effects of crises in non-participating member states and thus create favourable conditions for the functioning of the internal market as a whole. on the other hand, it is necessary to strengthen the parliamentary scrutiny and democratic accountability of the new eu agency to the ep and the national parliaments of the participating member states. i support the proposal to apply the approval procedure for the appointment of the executive director and the deputy executive director of the board, as well as the regular exchange of information.
in writing. - i agreed to the proposal because i have always been in favour of transparency in public services. access to public utilities should be open to all consumers, regardless of their financial situation. member states should establish appropriate arrangements to be applied to vulnerable consumers. consumer protection is only effective if consumer rights can be properly enforced. an open, transparent and integrated internal energy market is necessary to ensure competitive energy prices, security of supply, sustainability and the widespread deployment of efficient renewable energy, and member states are therefore encouraged to properly transpose, apply and monitor the third energy internal market legislative package. better information for consumers is needed, in particular to improve the services provided and to enable comparison and transparency of tariffs, thereby ensuring non-discriminatory prices.
in writing. - i voted for this report. protecting consumers' rights is one of the eu's policy priorities. i believe that it is necessary to strengthen the protection of consumer rights in the provision of public utilities, since the consumer chooses not whether to buy the service at all, but only from which provider to buy it. this creates a certain relationship of subordination between the service provider and the consumer. it should be noted that in many countries the liberalisation of these sectors has not produced the desired results. on the contrary, prices were increased, contract terms were made more complex and jobs were lost. it should be noted that improving the quality and protection of the rights and interests of the users of public utilities improves both the lives of the population and the living environment. it is therefore appropriate to integrate the rights of consumers of utilities into all economic, management and sectoral decisions. it is important to establish measures at eu level to ensure the availability and quality of public utilities, to increase consumer awareness, to represent their interests and to protect their rights.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it gives parliament its support for the directive laying down technical requirements for inland waterway vessels. this directive lays down the conditions and technical requirements for the issue of navigation certificates for inland waterway vessels, valid on all inland waterways of the community, including the rhine. increased legal certainty and technical adaptation to technical progress within a reasonable timeframe are ensured to ensure that high safety standards are maintained on eu roads and that innovation in the sector is not hindered.
in writing. - the need to move towards common and uniform technical standards is necessary for safety and to ensure a level playing field. the two different sets of rules currently in force do not adequately ensure legal certainty and security. it is therefore essential to have a common set of uniform technical standards across the eu to ensure that high safety standards are maintained in this sector and that there are no additional barriers to innovation. i welcome the efforts to further harmonise the technical requirements for inland waterway vessels and to strengthen cooperation between the river commissions, the unece and the commission in order to increase efficiency and legal clarity in the inland waterway sector, which is dominated by smes. in addition, the commission should implement naiades ii and take concrete action as soon as possible to take account of the specificities of the sector.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it gives parliament its support for the new version of the regulation, which aims to improve the application of eu customs and agricultural legislation in the member states. at present, customs intermediaries have no means of checking whether the declared origin of the goods coincides with the route of the container concerned. the transit system, which is monitored by limited documentary checks and visual inspections, is currently being abused. fraud in the submission of false declarations of origin costs the eu-27 €100 million a year , and this is only the first fraud to be detected. in 2011, member states reported losses of around eur 107,7 million due to false descriptions of goods carried, and it can therefore be concluded that the total amount of revenue lost to the union is significantly higher than the published figures. for the sake of legal clarity, evidence gathered in administrative proceedings should be legally recognised in the member states, whether it relates to aid applications or to aid on its own initiative.
in writing. - to ensure the correct application of customs and agricultural legislation, more effective measures must be provided not only to the commission but also to the customs and other authorities of the member states. it should be noted that the current regulation contains gaps as customs brokers have no means to verify that the declared origin of the goods coincides with the route of the relevant container. in addition, the transit system, which is monitored by limited documentary checks and visual inspections, is frequently abused. in this context, it is necessary to simplify and speed up the mechanisms to combat customs fraud, to avoid unnecessary and repetitive bureaucratic procedures, and to strengthen the internal market and the security of products moving within it, while ensuring a high level of consumer protection. for the sake of legal clarity, i consider that evidence gathered in administrative proceedings should be legally recognised in the member states, irrespective of whether it relates to aid applications or to aid on its own initiative, as there is no reason why these two types of circumstances should be treated differently as regards their legal validity.
in writing. - i agree with this report. in particular, this convention improves the conditions for cross-border activities in the internal market. i support the commission's recommendation and would like croatia to accede to the arbitration convention and related instruments as soon as possible. it should be noted that, in order to remove all doubts as to the possible retroactive application, i consider it appropriate to indicate the date of entry into force of the arbitration convention, not by specifying a specific date, but by providing for entry into force on the day following the date of publication of this decision in the official journal of the european union.
in writing. - i have given my consent to this proposal, which proposes to set up the shift2rail joint undertaking (hereinafter s2r joint undertaking). the s2r joint undertaking will be subject to the standard provisions of the five jti proposals submitted by the joint undertakings in july 2013. its main objective is to help create a single european railway area. the main objective of eu transport policy is to revive the european railway sector so that it can compete successfully with other modes of transport. new technologies can make a significant contribution to the modernisation of european railways, while reducing operational and infrastructure costs and opening up new business opportunities for the european rail supply industry. the high level of investment in research and innovation in the eu rail sector over recent decades has helped the european rail supply industry to remain a leader in the global rail market, in particular with the development of high-speed trains, the european rail traffic management system (ertms), automated metro systems, etc. i believe that there is a need for a coordinated eu approach to research and innovation in the railway sector and the creation of a joint undertaking, thus helping to create a common european railway area to increase the competitiveness of the eu railway sector in relation to other modes of transport and competition from foreign countries. in particular, by developing, integrating, demonstrating and validating innovative technologies and solutions in the areas of rolling stock, infrastructure and traffic management systems, the joint undertaking will help to accelerate and facilitate the market uptake of technological breakthroughs.
in writing. - i welcome the commission's proposal to establish the shift2rail joint undertaking. this is important for the further implementation of the innovation investment package of horizon 2020. it is worth noting that a coordinated eu approach to research and innovation in the railway sector will help to create a common european railway area, increase the competitiveness of the sector in relation to other modes of transport and competition from foreign countries. i believe that the management and operation of joint ventures should be open, transparent, efficient and effective and should allow the various stakeholders to operate in their specific field. it is therefore important to respect the principles applicable to public-private partnerships. on the other hand, the principles of openness and transparency should not only apply to the internal activities and management procedures of the joint undertaking.
in writing. - i voted in favour, as, in addition to their direct function of protecting depositors, deposit guarantee schemes are also essential for the stability of the financial system, especially in times of crisis. the loss of confidence of bank customers in their own credit institution and the simultaneous withdrawal of their deposits (bank run) may not only lead to the collapse of already fragile institutions, but also to the spread of the crisis of confidence to other credit institutions and countries. the amount of liquid assets required to cover such deposits is such that no credit institution can hold such an amount on a permanent basis. to this end, rules will be laid down for the first time at eu level on the financing of deposit guarantee schemes, payment deadlines in the event of insolvency will be shortened, the principle of risk-based contribution will be enshrined, temporary protection for large deposits will be provided, clear and easily understandable information on deposit guarantees will be provided, the funds in the deposit guarantee fund will be primarily dedicated to payments in the event of insolvency and to the protection of insured deposits during winding-up proceedings, and it will be provided that deposit guarantee schemes can lend to each other on a voluntary basis.
in writing. - i voted for this recommendation. the importance of deposits for financial markets is undeniable. without deposit banks, the system could not exist at all. it should be noted that, in addition to their direct function of protecting depositors, deposit guarantee schemes are essential for the stability of the financial system, especially in times of crisis. the rules on the financing of deposit guarantee schemes are welcome for the first time at eu level. in particular, payment deadlines in the event of insolvency will be shortened and disparities in the financing of guarantee schemes in the member states will be eliminated. the principle of risk-based contributions is also established. in order to guarantee the financial security of depositors and the protection of their interests, clear and easily understandable information on deposit guarantees will be provided to depositors.
in writing. - only by working together can we develop alternative fuels infrastructure across the eu. furthermore, a baseline of this infrastructure across the eu will contribute to the functioning of the eu single market. the measures envisaged will help to reduce dependence on oil and accelerate the reduction of co2 emissions from vehicles. however, it is necessary to allow time for this transition until the necessary infrastructure is in place and consumer confidence in alternative fuels is fostered. it should be noted that without eu support in sectors such as transport, it would not be possible to achieve the minimum necessary network expansion, increase the proportionate consumption of these fuels in the transport sector and thus reduce the negative environmental impact of transport. i welcome the proposals as a necessary means of breaking europe's dependence on oil and increasing the diversification and security of energy supply. in particular, the choice of alternative fuels and corresponding fuel stations for alternative fuels vehicles will be increased, information on fuel compliance for the car will be widely available and uniform labelling will allow easy choice of the fuel required in the stations. it will also boost economic growth, enhance the competitiveness of european industry and reduce greenhouse gas emissions from transport. another important aspect is that the direct impact of the directive must be felt by all eu residents. it is therefore necessary to ensure the quality of alternative fuels and to raise consumer awareness of alternative fuels.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it is appropriate to reconsider the directive on certain vehicle masses and dimensions. in particular, the provisions envisaged must ensure that road safety rules are respected, that the constraints imposed by the infrastructure are taken into account and that free movement is not impeded. it is essential that cabin profiling not only reduces fuel consumption and greenhouse gas emissions, but also improves the driver's field of vision, thereby saving more lives in europe each year. the implementation of the measures envisaged should improve driver comfort and safety. it should be noted that the proposed directive will allow for mixed transport. in addition, control authorities will be able to better identify infringements and apply uniform control methods and administrative penalties to infringers.
in writing. - i have supported this proposal, which will make it possible to implement common rules on the recovery and resolution of credit institutions and investment firms at union level. to this end, the proposed framework aims to protect the union's banking and financial system and to minimise the losses to taxpayers. the proposal is justified as it provides for the development of a number of measures to address the problems of banking crises, which will be able to combat the crisis of the banking system in the light of the need to protect the core services provided by banks and limit the cases of state aid to failing institutions, taking into account the interests of the market and society. the proposal ensures that, in the event that the financial situation of a bank deteriorates beyond repair, critical functions of the bank can be saved and the costs of restructuring and resolution of failing banks are borne not by taxpayers but by the bank's owners and creditors.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report on the system for the recovery and resolution of credit institutions and investment firms. the banking union is one of the key tools to put europe back on the path to economic recovery and growth. i think this is another important step forward in the creation of a banking union. the new system will help to protect the union's banking and financial system and minimise losses for taxpayers. it will also help to restore the necessary confidence of consumers and businesses and ensure the smooth financing of the economy, reduce the current fragmentation of the single market and ensure a level playing field in the union. it should be noted that the proposal ensures that the costs of restructuring and resolution of failing banks are borne not by taxpayers but by the bank's owners and creditors.
in writing. - i voted for this report. in order to take account of market developments and the experience gained so far by market participants and supervisors, it is essential to harmonise national provisions relating to the obligations and liability of depositaries, remuneration policies and sanctions. a clear obligation should be imposed on the management companies of collective investment undertakings to formulate and implement remuneration policies and practices. it should be noted that investors currently enjoy different levels of protection in different jurisdictions. moreover, the financial crisis has shown that the salary and incentive schemes normally applied in the financial institutions sector have themselves increased the impact and scale of the crisis. the pay policies encouraged short-term decisions and excessive risk-taking. in this context, i believe that common eu standards will help ensure sound and effective risk management, implement the principles of sound remuneration policies and help restore consumer confidence in financial markets.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it supports the directive on the comparability of charges relating to payment accounts, the portability of payment accounts and the availability of payment accounts with basic features. this directive lays down rules on the transparency and comparability of charges for payment accounts and rules on the transfer of a payment account within the union. this directive also defines a framework of rules and conditions under which member states are to guarantee consumers the right to open and use payment accounts with basic features in the union.
in writing. - i agree with the report. access to a bank account is an important requirement for the smooth functioning of the european internal market. a bank account is essential for participating in social and economic life. however, many people have difficulty opening a payment account. the refusal to grant a bank account is due to a variety of reasons and prevents eu citizens from enjoying the full benefits of financial services. in this context, i believe that appropriate measures must be implemented at eu level to ensure that consumers are not separated from their daily lives or from new technological developments. it is not enough to ensure access to the account. it is important to ensure that bank charges are transparent and understandable so that consumers can compare and make an informed decision about their banking service provider. consumers must be able to transfer their bank account in order to protect their economic interests and to promote fair competition between banking service providers in a genuinely functioning single market. it should be noted that the functioning and completion of the single market require the promotion of free and informed consumer choice and the facilitation of consumer mobility.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it gives parliament its support for the regulation increasing the number of judges at the general court. since its establishment, the gradual extension of the jurisdiction of the general court has led to a steady increase in the number of cases currently before it, which has led to an increase in the number of cases before it and an increase in the length of time for which proceedings are to be brought. the regulation provides that, since the geographical balance is already achieved by taking account of the different national legal systems, additional judges should be appointed on the sole basis of their professional and personal suitability and their knowledge of the legal systems of the european union and of the member states. however, in any event, there should be no more than two judges from one member state.
in writing. - i voted for this report. the judiciary must be able to carry out its control functions in a timely manner. this is what citizens expect in order to ensure the rule of law. however, the number of cases left unaddressed by the general court has steadily increased in recent years. in these circumstances, it is necessary to reduce the workload as quickly as possible. i agree that the most effective way to do this is to increase the number of judges. it is therefore appropriate to appoint an additional 12 judges. that's the right number. it should be noted that the requirement of geographical balance must be taken into account in the appointment of judges. the selection of the additional judges should be limited to the order of merit, without regard to nationality. candidates could be proposed by the governments of all member states.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because the introduction of this system in vehicles in all eu member states is one of the union's top priorities for improving road safety and intelligent transport systems in europe. the use of ecall could be more effective in reducing road fatalities and preventing the most serious injuries. the system will also help to significantly reduce congestion caused by traffic accidents and thus reduce traffic on european roads in general. i welcome the proposal for a decision on the introduction of the interoperable european emergency call system 'ecall', but in order to allow member states to set up the appropriate bpc infrastructure and for the automotive industry to install technical adaptations in all new cars, i support the proposal to set a later date for the entry into force of this legislation. it is important to note that it should be ensured that all citizens across the eu, and not only those with vehicles equipped with ecall, can benefit from the gnss positioning technologies already widely deployed.
in writing. - i agree with the proposed regulation. it is essential to reduce the cost of deploying high-speed and ultra-high-speed electronic communications networks. in particular, infrastructure should be deployed in a more cost-effective manner and administrative burdens should be reduced through the sharing of existing infrastructure and the coordination of civil engineering works. a common european approach will help to avoid unnecessary duplication and to exploit economies of scale. the eu added value of the proposed measures is evident when compared with the individual measures at national, regional or local level. on the other hand, member states must retain freedom in organisational matters and local and regional authorities should continue to play a key role in coordinating the construction work carried out under their jurisdiction. it should be noted that the development of ict services should be used as a means of improving public services, and it should also promote the activities of smes and stimulate their development. access to civil infrastructure is not a 'magic bullet' that will solve all competition problems in the telecommunications sector, but it can make it much easier for all operators to deploy high-speed broadband networks. particular attention should be paid to attracting private sector investment to rural and remote areas.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it approves the new wording of the regulation on the capacity of the community fleet to promote inland waterway transport. this regulation proposes to extend the scope of the regulation to include training programmes for all crew members and the possibility of using funds for innovation and environmentally relevant adaptation to technical progress on board ships. the characteristic of the inland waterway sector is its structure, which is mainly based on smes, i.e. private operators who own, work and live with their families on board vessels. these smes are particularly vulnerable in times of crisis. it is therefore necessary to provide support to the inland waterway sector to maintain and strengthen what is sought by this newly framed regulation. this parliament's report also sought to highlight its cost-effectiveness and energy and environmental efficiency, and to draw attention to the fact that this efficiency could be further improved. although congestion in road transport is a problem with economic and environmental costs, the inland waterway network has a high capacity to absorb traffic and avoid congestion. we should make better use of these advantages.
in writing. - i support the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the current regulation so that the reserve funds can be used to support the inland waterway sector more effectively and to create conditions for innovation and greater safety and environmental friendliness. a well-designed policy with short- and medium-term objectives to be achieved would be a value for a sector with great potential. the legal certainty is a necessary precondition for attracting or promoting investment in the sector, thus ensuring the sustainable development of the inland waterway market. it should be noted that the structure of the inland waterway sector is predominantly based on smes, which are particularly vulnerable during a crisis, and that it is therefore necessary to provide support to maintain and strengthen the inland waterway sector. in addition, cost-effectiveness and energy and environmental efficiency of inland waterway transport should be continuously improved. i very much welcome the intention to invest more in greening and innovation measures. i think that the european commission, together with the representatives of the sector, should examine how the funds could be used more efficiently and how the financial instruments for the sector could be optimised.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it was the one which gave parliament its approval to the regulation on information on agricultural products and their promotion in the internal market and in third countries. this document regulates the promotion of products in order to respond immediately to agricultural crises caused by price collapses or epidemics. the recent e. coli food scandal has once again highlighted the shortcomings of the cap in terms of the need to implement rapidly measures to restore consumer confidence. the rapporteur proposes to introduce an emergency procedure to be used to launch information and publicity campaigns in the event of a health crisis or market disturbance.
in writing. - in the current economic climate, it is appropriate to increase the value of eu production once again. the implementation of the measures envisaged will allow for a more effective management of the issues related to the globalisation of trade and will help to respond to emerging crises. i think that special attention should be paid to smes. regulation should be flexible to ensure that agricultural crises caused by price falls or epidemics are dealt with promptly. i support the proposal to introduce an emergency procedure to launch information and publicity campaigns in the event of a health crisis or market disturbance. in addition, more support should be given to campaigns on the external market, which are currently underfunded. i propose to maintain the single classification of measures and to extend the list of eligible products. i believe that wine should be included in the list of products under the same conditions as other agricultural products. in order to enhance the protection of eu products against counterfeiting and falsification in third countries, the services related to technical assistance to operators should include consultation and assistance.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it supports the decision by parliament to involve the eu in the active and easier living research and development programme, which is run jointly by several member states. with the expectation of a rise in the number of people aged 65 to 80 years (40% between 2010 and 2030), europe faces the important and urgent challenge of finding solutions to healthy and active ageing and demographic change in the 21st century. in addition, the economy also offers opportunities for the development of innovative services and products that meet social needs and stimulate economic development and new business models. for example, information and communication technologies (ict) can play an important role in improving the quality of life of older people and their carers and in increasing the economic efficiency of care. ict-based solutions can also lead to a more energy-efficient health and social care system.
in writing. - i support the proposed research and development programme for active and easier living. demographic ageing is one of the main challenges facing all member states. the union needs to create favourable conditions for investing in knowledge and innovation in order to ensure smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. it is worth noting that the increased use of new technologies will help to control costs, as well as to increase the well-being of older people, to promote their active participation in society. the programme will contribute to the competitiveness of the union economy and will help improve the quality of life of union citizens and the efficiency of healthcare systems. the measures envisaged should pay particular attention to data protection. the right to privacy must be respected without reservation. furthermore, the r&d&i programme for active and enhanced living should build on the achievements of the previous programme and address the shortcomings of the previous programme.
in writing. - i agree with this report. it is essential to support, at eu level, transnational research activities carried out by smes active in research, and to contribute to the integration, coordination and synchronisation of national research funding programmes. it should be noted that research and development programmes provide added value to european research and development smes and should therefore be of a continuous nature. stronger integration and cost-effective, transparent and efficient administration are needed to realise the benefits for r&d smes. it is essential to ensure that procedures are transparent and that projects are adequately financed. for the purposes of simplification, the administrative burden should be reduced for all parties.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it supports the eu's participation in a european programme of innovation and research in metrology, which is being implemented jointly by several member states. metrology is an essential element of the high-tech world. the main objective of the european programme for metrology innovation and research (empir) is to provide metrology solutions that support innovation and industrial competitiveness, as well as measurement technologies to address societal challenges such as health, environment and energy, including support for policy formulation and implementation. another important objective of the proposal is to establish an integrated european metrology research system with critical mass and active at regional, national, european and international levels.
in writing. - i agree with the motion for a resolution. metrology is an essential element in the world of high technology. it is therefore essential that the eu has an ambitious and more inclusive agenda. the european metrology innovation and research programme should provide for measures to support innovation and industrial competitiveness and an efficient financing mechanism. i believe that this programme will contribute to the harmonisation of metrology throughout europe and the world. i believe that it will be active at regional, national, european and international levels and will maintain the high level of scientific, managerial and financial integration already achieved. it is welcome that the scope of the programme has been extended to include activities in the fields of innovation and industrial applications, research for normalisation, standardisation and regulatory purposes and capacity building.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it supports the eu's participation in the second european-developing country partnership programme in the field of clinical research, which is being jointly implemented by several member states. the objective of this programme is to accelerate the clinical development of effective, safe and affordable medical interventions for poverty-related diseases. cooperation with developing countries, such as those in sub-saharan africa, is essential to overcome the negative effects of poverty-related diseases, which affect one billion people and tragically claim so many lives. the impact of poverty-related diseases on the wider world, and in particular on europe, where many of these diseases have been eradicated, should also be assessed.
in writing. - i voted for this report. cooperation with developing countries is essential to overcome the negative effects of poverty-related diseases. this clinical research partnership between europe and developing countries is one of the key tools for ensuring the clinical development of effective, safe and affordable medical interventions for poverty-related diseases. it is essential to pay particular attention to the best economic offers and to closer cooperation with other public and private sector organisations and voluntary organisations. i think there should be a flexible approach to co-financing, so that countries can participate in a non-cash way. it is important to ensure that the projects with the highest potential are supported and that money is not allocated to projects solely because they are included in the list. it is also essential to increase the number of participants in the programme and to provide information on funding opportunities on a regular basis.
in writing. - currently, a creditor seeking to secure recovery in another member state is facing difficulties due to the applicable rules on the issuing of an account freezing order and the high costs of enforcement. it should be noted that the european account preservation order will allow the application of provisional safeguard measures to accounts of debtors resident in other eu countries. this will facilitate cross-border debt recovery for citizens and businesses, in particular smes. the effectiveness of the enforcement of judgments in cross-border civil and commercial disputes will also be enhanced. on the other hand, the creditor could use this injunction as an alternative to national procedures. it would help to recover unpaid debts.
in writing. - i voted for this. it is essential to improve the relevance, consistency and comparability of non-financial information disclosed by companies across the european union. i think it is appropriate to require large companies to regularly update and publish non-financial information at least on environmental, social and human rights issues, anti-corruption and bribery aspects. it is essential that the information provided is verified by independent verification service providers. on the other hand, member states should be able to exempt certain undertakings from the obligation to draw up a non-financial statement if the undertaking submits a separate report covering the same financial year and containing the same content. in addition, the obligation to disclose diversity policies in administrative, management and supervisory bodies relating to aspects such as age, gender, education and professional experience should be limited to certain large undertakings.
in writing. - i support the proposed directive. legal immigration is an important factor for the eu's economic growth and long-term competitiveness, and it is therefore necessary to develop legal migration measures for highly skilled workers. regulating the legal migration of highly qualified workers will help to activate the mechanisms for concrete and effective joint action in the field of cooperation. the new rules will ensure a gradual simplification of procedures, a clearer harmonisation of the regulatory framework and more flexible working relationships. the measures envisaged will help to avoid any abuse and to link employment opportunities to market dynamics. the directive will also contribute to economic growth and the competitiveness of multinational companies, and will help achieve the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. it should be noted that harmonised, simplified and transparent procedures will remove the constraints of the current system and allow companies to access highly qualified personnel. the harmonisation of procedures will lead to better overall immigration management.
in writing. - i welcome the commission's proposal for the clean sky 2 joint undertaking as an important part of the innovation investment package of horizon 2020. it is an effective tool to stimulate innovation and growth in europe. attention should be drawn to the fact that the projected growth in traffic will lead to a steady increase in emissions, which is why it is essential to drastically reduce the environmental impact of air transport. in order to improve the environmental impact of european aeronautical technologies and to ensure the international competitiveness of the european aeronautical industry, it is essential that there be greater coordination and coordination between 'clean skies 2' and 'horizon 2020'. it is worth noting that public-private partnerships help to address some of the key challenges facing europe and strengthen european industry through actions supporting research and innovation in various industrial sectors. if europe is to achieve the objectives set out in the climate change and energy package, the eu aeronautical industry should develop innovative fuel-efficient technologies and competitive high-quality products.
in writing. - i welcome the commission's proposal for a council regulation on the bioeconomy joint undertaking as an important part of the investment package for innovation under the 'horizon 2020' programme. it is worth noting that the bio-industrial sectors are growing faster and stronger than the traditional bioeconomy sectors. they promote economic growth and employment. however, increasing global competition requires further strengthening of europe's competitive position. we need to invest more in research, demonstration and deployment activities in the bio-industrial sectors. common measures at eu level are essential to ensure long-term investment and reduce risks. they will help to address the technological and innovation challenges faced by the bio-industrial sectors. particular attention shall be paid to public-private partnerships that ensure openness and transparency. the joint undertaking will increase the growth potential of the bio-based industries sector, while stimulating economic growth and job creation.
in writing. - i welcome the commission's proposal to extend the sesar joint undertaking until 2024 and i believe this is important for the further implementation of the innovation investment package of horizon 2020. this joint undertaking will contribute to the continued coordinated approach to the implementation of the research and innovation programme on air traffic management in the single european sky. as an instrument for the implementation of horizon 2020, sesar should be consistent with the research and innovation priorities of that programme. it is noted that sesar requires a strict conflict of interest policy, requiring parties to declare the existence or absence of conflicts of interest and setting out a procedure for resolving such conflicts of interest. in order to ensure openness, transparency and open access, it is important to respect the principles applicable to public-private partnerships. it is essential that the undertaking complies with the rules for participation in horizon 2020 in the course of its activities.
in writing. - i voted for this. the innovative medicines initiative ii is a joint technology initiative developed under the seventh framework programme. the focus of this initiative on public health rather than on the readiness to compete in a competitive environment for biomedical research is welcome. i think it is appropriate to broaden the content of the agenda to include the whole innovation cycle. it is worth noting that this innovative medicine initiative provides opportunities for researchers from different sectors, as well as patient organisations, to engage in ambitious projects to develop and test new knowledge for future medicines. another important aspect is that the research results of the npi will benefit the entire european pharmaceutical sector. in this context, it is essential to ensure that the best knowledge-based activities are carried out, which will lead to higher revenues and enhanced industrial competitiveness.
in writing. - i voted for this report. this regulation is of particular importance as it lays down the governance framework for the joint undertaking for the next seven years. as ict is a key high-impact technology that helps to develop innovation in other industrial sectors, the ecsel joint undertaking will play a crucial role in achieving the objectives of the 'horizon 2020' strand 'signature in high-impact and industrial technologies'. the company is an important tool for bringing together the private and public sectors in targeted partnerships, thus helping to turn ideas into tangible products. it is very important that one of the main priorities of the company's activities is to increase the competitiveness of the core technologies and smart embedded components and systems industry. the freedom of undertakings to operate independently should therefore be properly balanced with strict adherence to the objectives and principles of horizon 2020.
in writing. - i welcome the commission's proposal for fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking ii as an important instrument in the innovation and investment package of the horizon 2020 programme. i believe it is appropriate to extend the company for an additional period of 10 years, as it has become a platform for building strong partnerships, has also helped to attract public and private sector funding and to involve industry, especially smes, in the development of ict technologies. it has also contributed to job creation and employment growth across the eu. the extension of this company will therefore enable europe to reap the full benefits of these key technologies in the future. it is worth noting that the development of a more integrated infrastructure system across the eu should continue to make efficient use of hydrogen in the transport sector and other sectors of the economy. it is also essential to raise public awareness on the benefits of technology for eu citizens. i believe that the objectives of the joint undertaking should include and promote research and innovation strategies aimed at finding suitable substitutes and alternative materials.
in writing. - i'm in favor of this deal. i believe that the operation and quality of the transparency register, in particular the registration requirements and its monitoring, need to be further improved. there is currently no strong legal basis in eu law for mandatory registration of lobbyists. the proposal for the revision of the transparency register should not only confirm and update its previous decisions, but also define the appropriate expectations that the commission should promote political action in the development of a new legal basis for the creation of a mandatory register. it is essential that incentives are also provided.
in writing. - i voted for this report. the tripartite social summit on growth and employment is a key high-level event, involving the heads of state or government and the ministers for labour and social affairs of the presidency countries, to discuss social and employment issues in the run-up to the spring and autumn european council meetings. it is also a great opportunity to hear the views and proposals of representatives from both sides of the social dialogue. in order to ensure effective and visible coordination of high-level activities between the eu institutions and the eu social partners, it is essential that this decision be aligned with the institutional changes required by the lisbon treaty, taking into account the recent positive results of the meeting. it would also make a few editorial corrections and ensure a fast review process.
in writing. - i agree with the position in the report. it is regrettable that, both in the procedure for reaching an agreement on the mff 2014-2020 and in the political discussions surrounding these negotiations, there was no common vision on the eu budget and political priorities, and that the eu institutions had widely divergent views and did not fully take into account the increased role and prerogatives of parliament as set out in the lisbon treaty. another important aspect is that the role of the eu budget in overcoming the current economic and social crisis has not been properly recognised. it should be noted that the eu budget is an investment budget with a high leverage effect and enabling the implementation of a large number of projects that would otherwise be difficult or impossible to implement. it is a powerful reform driver for growth, competitiveness and job creation across the union. in this context, it is essential to ensure that any new provisions successfully incorporated into the mff regulation and the interinstitutional agreement are fully implemented during the annual budgetary procedure. the practice of previous financial programmes, where the eu budget was much lower than the mff ceiling, cannot be followed. in addition, the accumulation of outstanding commitments has reached a critical level that could push the eu budget into a structural deficit over time.
in writing. i am very pleased that at the end of this european parliament's term of office we will be adopting a directive to ensure that workers who have worked in at least several eu countries during their careers and have participated in supplementary pension schemes have the right to acquire and retain supplementary occupational pensions. the overly strict rules of occupational pension funds often tie the worker to a particular job for a long time and force him to postpone returning to work in his home country. those who change jobs risk losing their pension rights. this directive addresses those objections. first, the acquisition and waiting period for pension rights, which is currently quite long in some countries - up to 10 years - is reduced to 3 years. the introduction of a strict minimum age of 21 for participation in the pension scheme is a significant improvement, as in some countries workers have only been able to participate in supplementary pension schemes from the age of 28. all these measures will significantly reduce the barriers to accessing supplementary occupational pensions, as long waiting periods and high retirement age increase the risk of losing supplementary social security benefits upon retirement. the directive also contains an important provision that in cases where the worker who leaves the employment relationship has not yet acquired pension rights, he would be reimbursed for the contributions he has paid.
in writing. mr president, about one million european union citizens are seconded to another member state each year. the free movement of workers and the freedom to provide services are the main pillars of the common internal market. therefore, special protection should be granted to this category of workers. this is particularly important in times of economic crisis. the specific characteristics of this category of workers mobility and competitiveness can have an impact on job retention and stimulate economic growth based on the creation of new jobs. the eu's freedom to provide services must, of course, be accompanied by the guarantee and safeguarding of the relevant workers' rights. in this context, it is necessary to develop the harmonised legal instruments provided for in this directive. closer cooperation with the member states is necessary to ensure better protection of this category of workers. the basis of this international cooperation is the optimal reduction of unemployment in the eu member states. it is worth remembering, however, that this objective cannot be the sole focus of our actions. to achieve this, we must focus on the principle of non-discrimination against workers on the basis of their nationality or citizenship. the rapporteur has raised very important issues and has proposed ways of addressing them in a supportive way. the new legislation and amendments to the legislation must not allow employers to circumvent the law in any way and must help to combat unfair treatment of employees.
on behalf of the ppe group thank you, rapporteurs, thank you, commissioner, for the european commission's position on this, i would say, important issue for all of us. first, considering what is probably an important issue from both a consumer and an environmental perspective. we often talk in our countries about whether the european parliament has enough power, how much power it has and how much it influences our daily lives. i think this directive, the proposal we are talking about today, on plastic bags, is a great illustration of the fact that the decisions made here reflect the lives of each of us and, in this case, our habits. we all deal with plastic bags on a daily basis, and the question is often asked how to avoid and reduce their use. on the other hand, we may rarely think about the number and extent of plastic bags we use. the numbers have already been touched and listed a little bit. and as we know, plastic waste and its use cause a lot of environmental problems. plastic waste is highly perishable, and its tiny particles pollute land, water and wildlife. the commission's proposal to reduce the use of plastic bags is very timely and, i would say, ambitious, and i would disagree with the rapporteur, who may think it is too little ambitious and should be welcomed. however, here in the european parliament, after long discussions, the political groups have reached an agreement in principle on the main steps to reduce the use of bags. and we immediately had a question about the definition of what kind of bags we were talking about, and that led to a certain division into these so-called small bags and 10 to 50 micron bags. however, we agreed that any measures must be realistic and proportionate. we have had a lot of discussions in the epp and, while we support the common objective of reducing the use of bags, we are not sure that the measures chosen will be effective. we believe that it may be difficult to reduce consumption so quickly and so drastically, especially given that the choice of base year itself, the reference points, is questionable. for example, not all the national statistics on which it is intended to base itself correspond to the data provided by the commission. another aspect that makes it difficult to agree on is the measures that the state can take, whether it be taxation or some other instrument. one of the proposals under consideration - a total ban on plastic bags - is, in our view, irrational and unworkable, and we therefore propose to abandon the introduction of new bans. the compromise agreed by the groups places too little emphasis on public education measures, which some countries are already implementing. the issue of alternatives while there is general agreement that plastic bags should be reduced, it is physically impossible to completely eliminate them. this seems to be a matter of disagreement not only between the political groups but also between certain national delegations. it is a pity that with the upcoming elections we do not have time for a longer discussion. it is to be expected that the council and the commission will pursue this matter with parliament. and just a quick note on the biodegradable bags. as far as i am aware, the commission was initially of a somewhat different opinion, so it would probably be interesting to hear the commission's observations on this matter again here in this plenary session.
several months ago we did not answer the question whether ukraine was ready for associate membership. a few months ago, we didn't answer the question of whether we could afford to lose ukraine. we have no answer to the question of whether we can stop the war in europe. over the past five years, we've had many conversations about secondary issues, like which city should be the headquarters of the european union, or the invention of the third gender. by devoting our energies to these things, we have shown ourselves to be politicians who are unable to solve not only the problems of growing social exclusion, youth unemployment, but, most importantly, to save a nation and europe from war. madam president, today is still the time when the european union, acting as the europe of peoples, speaking with one voice and agreeing on real solutions, can still stop the madness that is beginning. this is a rhetorical question, but i have to ask, and if we were sitting in kiev tomorrow, that would be a concrete enough step and a weighty argument to avoid the impending disaster.
mr president, this is my last speech in the house as well. the belle époque of european democracy, free will and unity building comes to an end. the epoch of bloody confrontation is reopened in the near east. let us listen, we europeans, to what the kremlin is saying by its action: ‘go away, union, with your childish values, since you lack the will and wisdom to defend them’. the main, if not the only, remaining value and virtue now is military muscle and force. the only international law still valid and observed by non-european and anti-european russia is force majeure. a clear signal came some time ago, when the ruler of russia went to the national tv forum to answer call-in questions. he was asked one by a little boy: ‘mr president, among my classmates there are two boys constantly fighting. which one of them is guilty for that?’ the president answered him then, but also you, ladies and gentlemen: ‘the one who was beaten is guilty’. did you listen? no. that sentence, worthy of the entire ‘mein kampf’, was never debated. maybe it is better understood now. ukraine was beaten, first in crimea, thus ukraine is guilty. tomorrow, if there is a big war in our east, some of you will blame ukraine. but we in europe will be beaten as well. we supported the europe-aspiring ukraine; we annoyed the monster of reborn russian fascism; thus we are guilty and should be struck down as well. why did we behave so provocatively, damning the eastern neighbourhood, not asking the grand master? this is my last speech, with some seconds left. i call on you, my former colleagues, as many will continue to serve here, not to repeat russian formulas in conformity with evil, in a manner approaching slavery. the european democracies and their union must awake and seek their moral rebirth.
in writing. the european union must realise that since the end of february, parts of europe have been living in a completely different era of international relations. forget about the validity of the principles of international law, forget about inclusion policy. it's not working anymore. we cannot expect the aggressor to sit down and take a bow. what is happening in ukraine now is a struggle between different value and political systems, between democracy and authoritarianism. the only effective eu response to these processes is the development of european political and economic rules. the eu must be clear that the only way for the eastern european countries to break out of this cycle is for the eu to open up the prospect of eu membership to them. the 2004 development has shown that it is the most effective tool the eu has at its disposal for promoting democracy and european values. the association process envisaged by the eastern partnership policy must therefore become an eu integration process. it is time to make it clear that the eu will respond to the internal reforms and direction of the partner countries with an open door policy. the eastern partnership policy must become a stepping stone towards full membership of the european union.
in writing. - i voted on this report, which gave its support to an important draft directive at the last session of this parliament. this directive aims to facilitate the mobility of workers between member states by improving the acquisition and preservation of pension rights of participants in supplementary pension schemes. the strict rules of occupational pension funds often tie the worker to a particular job for a long time and reduce his mobility and force him to postpone returning to work in his home country. those who change jobs risk losing their pension rights. the new directive is an attempt to address these contradictions. member states will be required to adopt the necessary measures to ensure that workers who retire can maintain their acquired pension rights in the supplementary pension scheme in which they were acquired and preserve their value. this directive does not provide for the transfer of acquired pension rights, but encourages states to seek ways of doing so. for those who have become entitled to benefits, they will be transferred to the country where the pensioner resides. participants in pension schemes will also be better informed about the possible consequences of termination of employment. the directive must be transposed into national law within four years. it is expected that during this period occupational pension funds will also start to be established in lithuania and that the incentives for those who have left abroad to work will increase.
in writing. - i voted for this report. in the old eu countries, occupational pension schemes are well developed and can provide for the accumulation of a supplementary old-age pension. the strict rules of occupational pension funds often tie the worker to a particular job for a long time and reduce his mobility. the new directive aims to address these contradictions. the reduction of the waiting period for the acquisition of pension rights to 3 years is to be welcomed. in addition, the entry into force of the directive will reduce the age limit for participants in pension schemes to 21 years, it should be noted that these measures should significantly reduce the barriers to the acquisition of supplementary pension rights, as long waiting periods and a high age threshold increase the risk of losing supplementary social security benefits upon retirement. i believe that the necessary measures should be put in place in each member state to ensure that workers who retire can retain their pension rights in the supplementary pension scheme in which they acquired them and preserve their value. in addition, workers who leave the workforce should be given the possibility to maintain their pension rights in the supplementary pension scheme in which they acquired them and to preserve their value, while those entitled to benefits will be transferred to the country where the pensioner resides.
in writing. - i support the proposed amendments to the regulation which aim to establish a common, harmonised system of official control procedures. official controls are important for ensuring a high level of protection of human, animal and plant health and for the proper implementation of comprehensive legislation throughout the food chain and for consumer confidence. it is therefore essential that a single overall framework covering controls of all relevant sectors of the agri-food chain applies in the eu. the proposal contains a major revision of the existing provisions in order to eliminate any duplication of legislation. the new regulation will simplify the common legal framework and provide a coherent approach across all areas. it will also be possible to apply the principle of risk-based controls more consistently and to ensure that controls are financed in a stable and consistent manner. attention should be paid to ensuring that consumers are guaranteed safety by a uniform minimum number of controls.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because this proposal for a regulation is important for public health, since approximately 70% of infectious diseases affect both animals and humans. this regulation aims to establish legislation on the control of animal diseases rather than legislation on animal health. it deals with animal diseases that infect animals and humans. it is important to design the new animal health legislation from the perspective of the need to protect animal health, i.e. by recognising the link between good animal husbandry and good animal health. references to animal welfare are therefore necessary in this respect where they relate to animal health, for example as part of biosecurity measures. it is also appropriate to recall in this regulation the importance of good animal husbandry and the requirements set out in eu legislation on the movement of animals. another important issue in this area is the problem of stray animals. they are also frequently the vectors of infectious diseases and require strict monitoring and control measures by the competent authorities. for this reason, it is necessary to clarify the definition of wild animals in the regulation to include animals previously kept but no longer under the direct control of the owner.
in writing. - i support the proposal which aims to amend some 40 different european legislation in this area. based on the priorities of smart regulation and taking into account scientific evidence and international standards, it is essential that the eu has a single, simplified, transparent and clear regulatory framework. this system will allow for a clear and balanced distribution of duties and responsibilities between the competent authorities of the member states, the eu institutions, animal owners and other entities in relation to the monitoring, prevention and control of different animal diseases. the increased focus on animal disease control is welcome and a clear link between animal welfare and animal and public health has been established. we must constantly stress the importance of good animal husbandry and the requirements set out in eu legislation on the transport of animals. another important issue in this area is the problem of stray animals. they are also frequently the vectors of infectious diseases and require strict monitoring and control measures by the competent authorities. in addition, preventive, proactive measures should be established for the monitoring and control of non-listed diseases. it should be noted that effective control of infectious animal diseases is the best basis for the functioning of the single market in trade in live animals, animal products and food and it is therefore essential that the new legislation is easy to understand and apply.
in writing. - i voted for this report. plant health is a key factor in ensuring sustainable and competitive agriculture, horticulture and forestry. it is therefore essential that common measures against plant pests are applied in the eu. these measures must reduce the phytosanitary risks and ensure a high level of protection, a rational development of agricultural production and a sufficient supply. it is welcome that the new official control regulation provides for an exemption for smes, allowing them to recover the costs of plant health checks. it is also essential to give priority to sustainable biological, physical and other non-chemical methods. however, it is essential to ensure that the level of plant protection products and other measures used does not exceed what is necessary. environmental damage should first be remedied at source and compensated by the polluter. i support the proposal to give the commission the power to prioritise certain quarantine organisms.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report on consumer product safety, as product safety is a key element in ensuring the proper functioning of the single market and thus facilitating the growth of european businesses and the prosperity of the european union. the european parliament wants this regulation to continue to act as a safety net to ensure product safety. the existing legislation, the general product safety directive, emphasises that the directive applies where there are no more specific safety provisions in eu legislation, thus ensuring the safety of all products placed on the market. the alignment of the current provisions with this regulation the safety regulation will act as a shield to close this gap. this new regulation should therefore be a broad framework of legislation of a horizontal nature to address issues and fill gaps relating to existing products or products that could be developed.
in writing. - i agree with the commission's proposal, it is important that this regulation continues to act as a safety net to ensure product safety and to help address the issues and fill the gaps. in this context, the implementation of the precautionary principle, which is of particular importance for consumers, economic operators and market surveillance authorities, plays a particular role. in the single market, we must protect the most vulnerable consumers and increase their confidence in e-commerce. i support the proposal to require the indication of origin on products or their packaging. it is also appropriate to introduce the new ce+ marking to indicate that the marked product has been tested by an independent third party and by a competent body. it is necessary to ensure that eu fines and sanctions are harmonised and applied in a targeted manner, it is noted that cooperation with the product safety and market surveillance authorities of the united states is essential to improve the current situation and the regulatory regime in the union. training on product safety legislation and information to industry and economic operators must be provided on a regular basis.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this draft regulation on product market surveillance, given the increasingly intensive movement of goods within the single market of the european union. the free movement of goods is one of the four pillars of the eu's single market. this pillar and the proper functioning of the single market are based on consumer confidence: european consumers need to be confident that, irrespective of where the product is made and in which member state they can buy it, the products they use are both safe and compliant. this should be ensured by effective and high-quality market surveillance. this supervision should ensure that products do not pose a risk to the health or safety of consumers or workers and that they comply with existing eu legislation, such as rules on energy efficiency, noise levels or emission limit values. at the same time, market surveillance authorities are expected to address new emerging challenges, such as the growth of e-commerce.
in writing. - the free movement of goods is one of the four pillars of the eu's single market. it is therefore essential that the eu has a functioning common european market surveillance system that applies to all products on the internal market, including products entering the eu market. i agree with the commission's proposal and the objectives it pursues. it is essential that market surveillance takes account of all the different aspects and that common safety rules are applied. new, innovative, market-based solutions need to be applied at eu level to complement market surveillance actions. another important aspect is closer, stronger and more effective cooperation between the supervisory authorities of the member states. it is therefore appropriate to establish a european market surveillance forum. in order to enhance the impact of dissuasive sanctions, it is necessary to apply harmonised administrative sanctions in the eu and to establish a public blacklist of operators who repeatedly infringe this regulation.
in writing. - i agree with the proposed regulation. it is essential that the same requirements apply in all member states in relation to the disclosure of trading data to the public, the reporting of transactions, and the trading of derivatives on organised trading venues. it is essential that access to the clearing system and the possibility to trade benchmarks be granted in a non-discriminatory manner. particular attention should be paid to the impact of the proposed regulation on the non-financial corporate sector. it is essential that non-financial corporations are not considered to be traditional financial institutions by their nature, as their activities do not pose any systemic risk and are of crucial importance to corporate business.
in writing. - the markets in financial instruments directive is one of the key pillars of eu financial regulation. a review of this directive is necessary in order to address the shortcomings of this directive and to increase the transparency and regulation of financial markets. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the financial institutions have engaged in a systemic risk-based approach to the conduct of their business. in addition, if non-financial undertakings are to be considered financial undertakings, they must fulfil the costly obligations laid down in several financial regulations. risk management will be much more costly for them, and some enterprises, in particular smes, will abandon or reduce their risk management. i believe that there should be a clear distinction between products that can be bartered and that are offered for commercial purposes and do not have the characteristics of other derivatives. the position management approach should be preferred as it is more flexible and better adapted to market characteristics.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it is necessary to take a closer look at the current post-trade settlement systems in order to assess what could be improved to best meet the needs of all investors. other objectives of this legislation are to encourage the emergence of new market participants in order to foster a competitive environment, reduce the cost of cross-border settlements and reduce counterparty risk. following the financial crisis in 2008, the european union has for several years carried out a systematic assessment of each stage of the trading cycle in order to strengthen its financial structures and prevent future crises. with the european commission's proposal for a regulation on the improvement of securities settlement and central securities depositories (csds), we can now move to the final stage of this process, which includes the post-trading infrastructure and services. in the past, the focus has been on reducing investor costs and improving efficiency, but in the post-crisis period financial regulators and policymakers have also focused on the post-crisis environment to ensure that our financial infrastructure minimises counterparty risk, is robust and meets the needs of end-investors.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it is important to ensure the safety of ships and their crews and to avoid accidents at sea and pollution of the marine environment. this includes products such as navigation aids, life-saving equipment or fire-fighting systems. the new directive thus aims to strengthen the mechanisms for the implementation and enforcement of ship safety rules, thus ensuring the proper functioning of the internal market for marine equipment, while at the same time ensuring a high level of safety at sea and prevention of marine pollution. it is also intended to simplify the regulatory environment by ensuring that the requirements of the international maritime organisation (imo) are applied and implemented in a harmonised manner throughout the union. the shipbuilding industry is a leading industrial sector with a high added value and attracting high investments in research and development. the relevant stakeholders include not only european shipbuilders, many of whom are small and medium-sized enterprises (smes), and shipyards, but also passengers, ship crews and public administrations. the proposal for a directive should therefore aim to improve the safety of ships and their crews, while promoting the marine equipment industry and creating more jobs.
in writing. - i think it is time to focus more on citizens' links with europe and on strengthening the relationship between national parliaments and the european parliament. it should be noted that the relationship between the european parliament and national parliaments must be based not on competition or antagonism but on mutual cooperation. it is therefore essential that political dialogue be based on a european ethical mindset. in particular, national parliaments need to be given greater scope to participate in policy-making at eu level. we need to create new mechanisms to strengthen and intensify cooperation between national parliaments and the european parliament, taking into account their specific roles. legitimation and accountability need to be strengthened through concrete measures.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for a directive on the rules governing the placing on the market of pressure equipment in order to ensure its safety. the new legislative framework creates a simplified regulatory environment for products and facilitates the consistent implementation of technical standards. this will help to improve the functioning of the single market by ensuring a uniform treatment of non-compliant products and economic operators and a uniform assessment of notified bodies throughout the european union market. in addition, the harmonisation of the new regulatory framework will increase confidence among both producers and consumers, as the obligations of economic operators will be more clearly defined. on the other hand, member states will be given more effective tools to carry out market surveillance, which will reduce the number of non-compliant and unsafe products on the market.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, which lays down the rules governing the action of the european maritime safety agency in response to pollution from ships and marine pollution from oil and gas installations. the agency has a long-term responsibility in the field of pollution response and therefore needs financial security based on a multiannual commitment to carry out the related tasks efficiently and carefully. in carrying out its activities, the european border and coast guard agency shall liaise with experts in the member states in the field of pollution control and shall cooperate with the international maritime organisation (imo) in accordance with existing regional agreements. the agency shall collect, analyse and disseminate information on best practices, techniques and innovations in the field of response to marine pollution. various evaluation activities have been carried out over the past 10 years. the main conclusions drawn from these assessments are positive. the budget for the remediation of the effects of pollution was found to be sufficient. in many cases, it was noted that the measures financed were cost-effective, provided added value and were well managed.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because both the european union and the member states themselves have an important role to play in supporting enterprises and to this end, to increase access to finance for enterprises and to encourage entrepreneurship. unemployment is the biggest social problem facing europe today. so we need to focus on how europe can create the right conditions for job creation. we must also remember the basic principle that it is not the eu growth plans but businesses, especially small and medium-sized enterprises (smes), micro-enterprises, entrepreneurs and innovators, that create jobs. businesses will only be able to create jobs and employ more people if market conditions are favourable, if they can rely on a skilled workforce, if the labour market is sufficiently flexible, if labour costs, including wages, are in line with productivity indicators, if social protection systems ensure the attractiveness of work, and if regulation is proportionate and evidence-based. it is therefore essential that businesses, especially smes and micro-enterprises, have the knowledge and understanding of how to access eu support, for example through the one-stop shop and online portals.
in writing. - unemployment is the euʼs biggest social challenge. taking into account the dire situation in the eu and its member states, it is high time that the eu and its member states acted to improve this. it is especially important now when additional mechanisms from the eu and its member states are required in order to achieve the target of 75[nbsp ]% in active employment by 2020 set by the eu in the europe 2020 strategy. this report lists all the important incentives the eu needs to offer in order to improve the employment situation. it stresses the innovative character of entrepreneurship, it underlines the importance of smes with their huge potential for job creation, and it highlights the significance of eliminating skill shortages and skill mismatches in the eu and its member states. i welcome this crucial report for the eu and consider that the member states should take further steps to tackle high unemployment, especially among youth, the low-skilled and the long-term unemployed. lithuania, as a country with a high unemployment rate, should take all necessary steps to address this challenge and promote entrepreneurship and the right regulatory environment for better job creation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because, in the light of the current economic crisis and the high level of youth unemployment, one of the increasingly important tasks facing the member states is to provide young people with access to quality education. as regards new technologies, there is still a lack of equal access to digital infrastructure in the european union. moreover, in terms of digital literacy of the workforce, the eu still lags behind the united states and asia. the integration of ict into mainstream practice in european education and training systems is still not possible, as there is a large gap between the everyday use of digital technologies and their use in education and training institutions. cooperation between european education and training institutions should be encouraged in order to facilitate the development of open educational resources. the increased use of digital technologies provides educational and training institutions, teachers, students and pupils with opportunities to teach and learn in innovative ways. in the field of education and training, it is therefore essential to further develop existing methods and to promote innovative teaching and learning methods. open educational resources can play a major role in achieving the europe 2020 goals and making lifelong learning a reality.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. in particular, improved rules on the posting of workers to another eu country will facilitate the fight against fictitious posting and prevent labour law violations. clearer rules will improve workers' rights. the achievement of a proper balance between the freedom to provide services and the protection of posted workers is to be welcomed. the criteria set out in the new rules will help states to prevent the fictitious posting of workers and to ensure that the posting of workers does not make fictitious use of the self-employed status, which provides a worker with lower social protection. i agree with the proposals that a stricter control mechanism should be applied and that a clear system of joint and individual liability should be established. it should be noted that greater attention should be paid to border regions, which have a special role to play in ensuring that secondments are conducted in a manner that respects human rights and dignity and in ensuring the exchange of good practices. they should therefore be given the means necessary to fulfil their tasks. in addition, there should be a regular exchange of good practice and free, clear, transparent and comprehensive information for companies and posted workers on the employment contract requirements, social conditions and occupational health and safety applicable in their territory.
in writing. - i agree with the new version of the regulation. we need to ensure that international trade in wildlife specimens is not threatened and that illegal trade is prevented. it should be noted that one of the major international ecological problems is the trade in wild animals and plants. trade in wild animals and plants crosses national borders and is therefore a global problem, requiring the protection of certain species from over-exploitation worldwide. it is therefore essential to update the provisions of the regulation currently in force in accordance with the treaty of lisbon with a view to replacing the obsolete provisions with new ones, in particular taking into account the rules on comitology. measures should be taken to ensure effective control. member states should strictly monitor compliance with the provisions of this regulation and cooperate closely with each other and with the commission in this regard.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this partnership agreement establishing a partnership between the european union and the republic of seychelles in the fisheries sector. the economy of the seychelles is based mainly on fishing and tourism. seychelles has signed fisheries agreements on the catch of migratory species with the eu, japan, south korea and taiwan. the first eu-seychelles fisheries agreement was signed in 1984[n 1], which eventually became the fisheries partnership agreement. this agreement is vital to maintain the strategic presence of the eu fleet in this key tuna fishing area in the indian ocean, where other major foreign fleets, notably those from japan, china, south korea, the philippines and taiwan, are also active. this protocol is harmonized and mutually beneficial. the objective of the protocol is to ensure the sustainable fishing of the eu fleet in seychelles' waters, and this objective is enshrined in several provisions of the protocol and the fisheries agreement: they aim to ensure the monitoring, control and inspection of fishing activities, including scientific cooperation, a satellite-based vessel monitoring system, etc. in addition, under this fisheries agreement, some 760 jobs in europe are linked to fleet activities in various parts of the sector.
in writing. - it is worth noting that this protocol is beneficial to both sides, both the eu and seychelles, in view of their interests in the fisheries sector. it will help ensure the sustainable fishing of the eu fleet in seychelles' waters. in addition, monitoring, control and effective scientific cooperation will be ensured to promote responsible fishing and sustainable fisheries in seychelles' waters. another important aspect is that the protocol will have an impact on the creation of jobs on board ships. it is noted that the seychelles fishing authority has an effective vessel control system and is therefore able to combat iuu fishing. in the meantime, european vessels authorised to fish in seychelles' waters shall take on board observers designated by seychelles. the extension of the protocol will allow the eu fleet to continue its activities in deep-sea fishing areas and fishing opportunities in this part of the indian ocean, and will also strengthen cooperation between the two countries and develop a sustainable fisheries policy.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this partnership agreement establishing a partnership between the european union and the union of the comoros in the fisheries sector. the main objective of this protocol is to pursue sustainable fishing. the objective is to strengthen cooperation between the european union and the union of the comoros, thereby establishing a partnership framework for the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and the responsible exploitation of fisheries resources in the union of the comoros' fishing zone, taking into account the interests of both parties. the european parliament will continue to closely monitor sectoral policy and support as provided for in the protocol. national authorities are encouraged to improve their organisation of their activities to the maximum extent possible in order to ensure that sectoral support is provided as efficiently as possible. it is also necessary to ensure greater accountability for the use of these funds. sectoral support should ensure the continuous operation of the comorian fisheries monitoring centre and the national vessel register, and the development and implementation of a national action plan to combat illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing in the waters of the union of the comoros and by vessels flying the flag of the union of the comoros. it is also recommended that a regional fisheries monitoring centre be set up, to be chaired by the indian ocean tuna commission and the indian ocean states commission.
in writing. - i agree with the recommendation. i believe that it is necessary to strengthen cooperation between the eu and the union of the comoros, taking into account the interests of both parties. it is important to note that this protocol will benefit both parties and the fishermen in this area. this agreement will help create jobs and prosperity. eu vessels will be allowed to fish in the union of the comoros's fishing zone. in addition, a strong partnership framework will help develop sustainable fisheries policies and the responsible use of fisheries resources. attention should be drawn to the need to continue to monitor closely the sectoral policy and sectoral support in order to ensure that support is delivered as effectively as possible. it is necessary to ensure greater accountability for the use of these funds.
in writing. - i'm in favor of this deal. it should be noted that the fisheries partnership agreement between the eu and the republic of madagascar provides for the possibility for european fishing vessels to fish in malagasy waters. the new protocol will better meet the capabilities and needs of the member states' navies. in particular, the catch shall be increased in strict compliance with the best available scientific advice from the indian ocean tuna commission. in addition, strict external financial control and accountability will be implemented. it is important to stress that the eu has a crucial role to play in ensuring sustainable fisheries management and good governance in third countries. it is therefore essential to implement a more coordinated and coherent policy in the light of the objectives of development cooperation.
in writing. - the republic of korea is one of the eu's most important partners in developing political and economic relations in asia. it is a pity that the process of concluding and ratifying the agreement took almost four years. i think that delays in the future which could jeopardise the development of political dialogue should be avoided. it is worth noting that this agreement will strengthen partnerships in the political, economic, social and cultural fields. the parties will also strengthen and deepen cooperation on readmission, with a view to preventing illegal migration and enhancing cooperation in the area of justice, freedom and security.
in writing. - i'm in favor of this deal. the new framework agreement is based on universally recognised principles ensuring respect for democracy, the rule of law and human rights. this agreement shall strengthen political, economic and sectoral cooperation at bilateral, regional and global levels. it is worth noting that the new agreement will provide a framework for closer cooperation between the two parties on key political and global issues. the eu will be able to assume greater responsibility and influence on the korean peninsula, and korea will be able to participate in the eu crisis management process. this is a welcome step towards strengthening bilateral relations and ensuring overall coherence. the parties shall cooperate in order to ensure the development of a secure cyberspace, to promote sustainable development and economic growth.
in writing. - i agree to this protocol. it should be noted that the stabilisation and association process is a specific eu regional strategy aimed at stabilising and developing both individual countries and the region as a whole. it also contributes to closer bilateral relations and offers opportunities for eu integration. it is therefore essential to establish a comprehensive contractual framework for mutual cooperation. in particular, montenegro should continue to pursue consistent political, economic and institutional reforms and adopt the eu's core values and models. in the main areas of the internal market, it is essential to align national legislation with eu legislation. it is noted that this agreement will facilitate and protect mutual investment.
in writing. - i agree to this protocol. given the importance of cooperation between georgia and the european union, it is essential to establish clear financial and technical rules to facilitate georgia's participation in eu programmes. this protocol will thus further promote contacts in the fields of culture, education, environment, technology and science. this will provide a basis for intensifying people-to-people and sector-to-sector cooperation. it is noted that close political relations between the two sides will contribute to the implementation of the neighbourhood policy action plan. this will help to ensure greater political and economic security in georgia and create an environment conducive to investment.
in writing. - i support this communication authorising portugal to apply a reduced rate of excise duty in the autonomous regions of madeira and the azores to certain alcoholic beverages. the continuing difficulties are having a negative impact on the socio-economic situation of the outermost regions and it is appropriate to extend the validity of the authorisation until 31 december 2020 in order to compensate for the additional costs. it is an effective aid measure that contributes to the sustainable development of these regions and also stimulates growth in the single market. it should be noted that this advantage will not distort competition and will not have a negative impact on the internal market.
in writing. - i voted for this report. in order to increase competitiveness and to compensate for the additional costs, it is appropriate to apply a lower aiem tax or to exempt a number of products produced in the canary islands from such a tax. it should be noted that these regions, due to their remoteness, dependence on raw materials and energy resources, small local market and low level of exports, suffer from high production costs which limit development and sustainable development and also have a negative impact on the socio-economic situation of the outermost regions. the application of this measure is therefore necessary and proportionate. in addition, economic activity and competitiveness in the outermost regions will continue to be promoted.
in writing. - i voted for this report. in order to increase competitiveness and to compensate for the additional production costs incurred by remoteness and dependence on raw materials and energy resources, the application of this advantage should be extended to the french outermost regions. it is noted that these difficulties increase the cost of locally produced products and make them less competitive. in view of the possible negative impact on the socio-economic situation of the outermost regions, the application of this measure is proportionate and justified. it will further promote economic activity and competitiveness in these regions and strengthen local industry.
in writing. - i support the proposed amendments to the rules of procedure of the parliament. it should be noted that only efficient and smooth parliamentary work can ensure the promotion of democratic principles and the legitimacy of the decisions taken. the current arrangements should be reviewed in order to improve the quality of question time. i consider the amendments proposed to be justified and useful. in particular, it will provide greater flexibility and make it easier to plan the agenda of the plenary session, ensuring a good quality of work.
in writing. - i support the amendments to the rules of procedure tabled by the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights. in order to ensure the efficient work of parliament, i believe it is appropriate to allow committees to deliver opinions on resolutions relating to international agreements. these changes will allow parliament to properly carry out the tasks entrusted to it, ensuring the democratic legitimacy of the eu. it is therefore essential that parliament is fully involved in the union's legislative process. it should be noted that the provisions currently in force do not provide for the possibility of expressing an opinion on the above-mentioned issues. i believe that the amendments proposed will close the existing loopholes and ensure respect for democratic principles.
in writing. - i think that electronic document management should be promoted at all times. in order to reduce the circulation of paper documents and the costs associated with their preparation and storage, the majority of parliament's documents should be prepared, signed and circulated in electronic form. in order to ensure a successful and efficient exchange of information and interoperability, the office should establish as soon as possible the requirements for the technical specifications and the layout of the electronic form. it should be noted that electronic documents are an integral part of the management of information resources. it is therefore essential to ensure effective regulation of their management and consistent quality and efficiency assessment of document management processes.
in writing. - i voted for this recommendation. the eu should have clear, mandatory rules governing the application of noise-related operating restrictions at union airports. in particular, in order to identify the most cost-effective solution to the problem of aircraft noise, the rules should be implemented on the basis of a harmonised approach. the transparency of decisions in the assessment and management of aircraft noise is essential. in addition, noise restrictions must be proportionate to the noise problem identified and adapted to the current requirements of the aviation system. i think it is appropriate to leave the decision on the application of noise-related measures at airports to local authorities.
in writing. - i agree with the recommendation. i think this initiative should continue beyond 2020. it is one of the most effective eu instruments in the field of culture. it reflects the diversity and commonalities of local, regional, national and european cultural development and provides effective long-term support for local and regional culture. in the light of experience, it is essential that the structure and content of the current initiative be maintained. in addition, the selection procedure must be streamlined, the sustainability of infrastructure investments ensured, access to additional sources of eu funding and the possibility for the city to lead the regional proposal. more attention should be paid to the host country of the european capital of culture events. the active participation of local and regional authorities should be facilitated. in addition, while safeguarding the european nature of the initiative, it is necessary to ensure that the cultural capital has a long-term strategy and a positive impact on the cultural sector and cultural capital.
in writing. - the european capitals of culture initiative was created in 1985. since then, this has become one of the eu’s best-known campaigns, during which more than forty cities have been awarded the title. this award and the nomination as a capital of culture have proven very effective in promoting mutual understanding between eu citizens, mobilising public and private investment, and highlighting the richness of europe’s culture. this report is very relevant now in order to make eu action for the european capitals of culture for the years 2020 to 2033 even more significant and efficient. it provides a set of indications to simplify the selection procedure and it makes it possible for a city to lead a regional bid. at the same time it recognises the importance of the member state hosting the capital of culture. i consider that this report is crucial in its added-value for promoting the culture, potential and visibility of regions and cities in the eu and its member states. i believe that this initiative can be economically beneficial as well as able to attract tourism, increase investment and additional funds and unite all eu citizens in its cultural diversity.
in writing. - i agree with the position. whale populations have declined dramatically and tens of thousands of whales die in eu waters every year. in this context, it is appropriate to review the adequacy and effectiveness of the provisions of the regulation currently in force in order to ensure adequate protection of cetaceans and to prevent illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. in particular, particular attention shall be paid to the use of acoustic equipment to prevent accidental capture of cetaceans. in order to guarantee the stable economic and social situation of the fisheries sector, the regulation needs to be adapted to technical and scientific progress. it is therefore essential that the commission be empowered to adopt delegated acts in order to update the technical specifications and conditions of use of sound-absorbing devices.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report on the return of cultural objects unlawfully removed from the territory of a member state, since it is necessary to ensure the protection of cultural objects and, in particular, of national treasures, since internal border controls were abolished on 1 january 1993. in 2013, the commission proposed a new directive because the 1993 directive was not effective enough. another objective of the new wording is to harmonise the laws of the member states concerning compensation paid to the managers of the object to be returned, to place on them the obligation to prove the origin of the object and to abolish the question of the application of the laws of the member states. the operator of the object will therefore have to prove that sufficient care was taken in acquiring the object, i.e. that sufficient care was taken to ensure that its origin was legitimate. the commission also seeks to improve cooperation between the competent national administrative authorities in the field of the return of cultural objects, in order to reduce the need for judicial procedures. the commission therefore proposes that these authorities make use of the new eu instrument for administrative cooperation internal market information system. this system is better suited to the implementation of the directive than any other existing eu instrument, as it helps to provide information on cultural objects classified as national treasures or stolen, includes secure internet access and can be used in all eu languages.
in writing. - i support the position on the new version of the directive of the european parliament and of the council on the return of cultural objects unlawfully removed from the territory of a member state. it should be noted that the scale of the illicit trade in cultural objects and in particular in national treasures has increased significantly over the past few years. the current directive is not sufficiently effective. it is therefore necessary to ensure the wider use of the drawback mechanism. in order to remove the current obstacles and to facilitate the return of more cultural objects recognised as national treasures, the procedures for the return of cultural objects unlawfully removed from the territory of a member state should be facilitated. it is essential that the rules on compensation are uniform throughout the eu. in addition, cooperation between the competent national administrative authorities should be improved in order to reduce the number of judicial proceedings.
in writing. - i support the proposal for a directive. i believe that the european targets for reducing plastic bags in the new directive, and the introduction of a tax on them, will help to reduce environmental pollution and damage to ecosystems. it is worth noting that the consumption of plastic bags is increasing every year. the proposal to reduce the use of plastic bags by 80% by 2019 is therefore objectively justified and should be implemented. in order to reduce the negative impact on the environment, in particular its pollution by waste, and to promote waste prevention and better resource efficiency, each member state should undertake to dispose of such waste. in particular, the list of measures taken by member states to combat the misuse of plastic carrier bags should be extended. they should use taxes, marketing measures or prohibitions to achieve their objective. however, the choice of implementation policy must carefully analyse the impact on consumers, the retail sector and the environment. on the other hand, specific penalties should be provided for for failure to achieve the objective of the directive.
in writing. - i voted for this report because we need to protect our borders and have an effective border control system. i would like to point out that such external border protection does not have a negative impact on the fundamental rights of migrants arriving on europe's shores. respect for the right to life and the principle of non-refoulement are fundamental rights of the utmost importance and the european union and its member states must ensure that they are fully implemented and fully respected. it is therefore important to ensure additional legal clarity on the respect of fundamental rights in maritime surveillance and the disembarkation of seized or rescued persons at sea, including full respect for the principle of non-refoulement. in this regard, a number of amendments were introduced to enshrine the principle of non-refoulement and to protect human rights, and to underline that all member states participating in such operations are required to comply with obligations under international law and the eu acquis, including relevant case law.
in writing. - i voted for this. it is worth noting that the southern eu member states are currently facing particularly high levels of illegal migration. this problem is not only affecting these countries negatively, but also the eu as a whole. it is therefore necessary to step up efforts to combat and prevent illegal migration to the southern external borders of the member states. it is essential to ensure that the eu has a common legal framework for apartments and that international law is interpreted in the same way in all member states. common practices must be applied across the eu in dealing with detection, detention, search and rescue and disembarkation. full respect for the principle of non-refoulement must be ensured. in addition, member states should be encouraged to cooperate more actively in ensuring full respect for the fundamental rights of asylum seekers and refugees.
in writing. - i support the proposed regulation. it is essential to establish an effective investor-state dispute settlement mechanism. it is also essential that union agreements ensure a high level of protection for foreign and eu investors and ensure the implementation of the division of responsibilities. in order to achieve the objectives pursued, criteria should be established for the allocation of financial responsibility between the union itself and the member state responsible for the regime in place. it is also necessary to ensure that the costs of litigation or other costs do not have adverse effects on the budget of the union or other non-financial resources. the financial liability should therefore be limited in view of the impact on the eu budget, as the essential basis of liability is not limited. i support the proposal to give the union, in exceptional circumstances, a right of reply in disputes relating to the regime applied by a member state. it should be noted that a procedure for the conclusion of peace agreements should be established in order to avoid a costly and unnecessary arbitration process.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this proposal for a regulation, which aims to modernise the anti-dumping and anti-subsidy regulations. the new amendments will have four main effects: the abolition of the lesser duty rule in anti-dumping cases where there is a structural distortion of the raw material market and in all anti-subsidy cases, the obligation for eu producers to cooperate in ex-officio investigations, the reimbursement of duties collected during the expiry review and the warning two weeks before the application of provisional duties. the commission proposal for a regulation is based on three objectives: to increase the effectiveness of the measure, to reduce the risk of retaliation by a third party and to increase transparency and predictability. the european parliament supports these three objectives and believes that they need to be combined to ensure that they are effective and useful for our citizens.
in writing. - i support the proposal to modernise the anti-dumping and anti-subsidy regulations. the eu must have a clear, flexible system of protection against dumped imports and subsidised imports from non-eu countries and ensure the most effective and efficient measures possible, while balancing the interests of the various stakeholders. in order to enhance public confidence, it is important to ensure that the eu has an effective remedy to protect against the threat of third-party retaliation and to increase transparency and predictability. in addition, in order to better address the challenges of the ever-changing trading environment, the sme helpdesk should be given greater attention by providing it with increased support and by strengthening its role.
in writing. - european political parties and european political foundations play an important role in bridging the gap between member states and eu policies. in order to become effective and accountable democratic actors, european political parties and european political foundations need to increase their visibility, recognition, effectiveness, transparency and accountability. it is therefore essential that the eu establishes a specific, harmonised european legal status for european political parties and political foundations. europe's representative democracy will be effective in the year when the voice of citizens is clearly heard. in this context, i believe that more efforts should be made to promote and support european political parties and their associated political foundations. in particular, the conditions for their development should be created by establishing a flexible but rigorous financing system. in addition, a dialogue with european citizens should be developed on a continuous basis in order to link european civil society with the european institutions.
in writing. - it is welcome that a compromise has been reached on the financing of political parties in the union and that the existing regulatory gap has been closed. the new regulation will further enhance the capacity of european political parties to play their role in shaping european political awareness more effectively. it should be noted that, in order to regulate the financing arrangements for political parties effectively, a specific financing mechanism should be established to meet the needs and specificities of political parties, in particular by giving them greater flexibility in financial planning.
in writing. - i voted for this report. in particular, the revision of the regulation is necessary to incorporate the amendments related to the outcome of the negotiations on the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020. i believe that the revision of the financial regulation should include specific provisions on the creation of the performance reserve and the sme initiative. it is also essential that simplifications are introduced in the new financial system. in particular, the joint undertakings should be able to benefit more easily from simplified financial rules. given their nature and existing status, they should continue to be subject to a separate discharge.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because of the importance of reducing emissions from the marine sector, and also because of the importance of monitoring, reporting and verification. the maritime transport sector plays an important role in the european economy. it is responsible for a large proportion of international freight transport between eu member states and other regions of the world, as well as for intra-eu freight transport. however, the maritime transport sector is dependent on the burning of fossil fuels and is one of the least regulated sources of anthropogenic emissions, which contributes to air pollution and climate change. this regulation therefore aims to develop in the near future a policy for reducing emissions from the marine sector in line with the overall climate, air pollution and human health policy. while it is important to ensure that emissions from the marine sector are included in this regulation as consistently as possible, it is also important to focus on the essentials and to reduce the implementation costs and administrative burden.
in writing. - i support the proposed regulation. it is important to note that carbon emissions from maritime transport are increasing and will increase significantly in the future if no action is taken. in addition, the current eu policy is inadequate and the policy ambition needs to be increased, as shipping emissions have health effects. first, we need to ensure that a common policy is in place in europe to reduce emissions from the marine sector. this would be a major step towards achieving the targets for energy efficiency and emissions reduction. i believe that the proposed measures are necessary to establish specific emission commitments in the international shipping sector and to develop appropriate market measures as soon as possible. in order to achieve the objectives set, the scope of the monitoring, reporting and verification system should be extended. in addition, the use of emission measurement techniques should be encouraged.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because invasive alien species threaten biodiversity and ecosystem functions or have negative effects on the environment, human health and socioeconomic development. invasive alien species include animal, plant, fungal and micro-organism species and affect the eu's landmass, water bodies, seas and islands. biological invasions are expected to increase in europe. current trends in the introduction of new species suggest that the problem is far from being under control and its impact on biodiversity is expected to increase, as pressures such as habitat loss, degradation, fragmentation, over-exploitation and climate change increase the number of species concerned and the vulnerability of ecosystems to invasions. the european commission has therefore published a proposal on the prevention and management of the introduction and spread of invasive alien species. the main objective of the proposal is to ensure that coordinated action is taken at eu level in cooperation with the member states. a list of invasive alien species should be established. member states should take measures to ensure that these species are not introduced, sold and bought, stored, bred or released in the eu.
in writing. - i welcome the proposal for a regulation on the prevention and control of the introduction and spread of invasive alien species. this is a major step forward in ensuring the future protection of europe's biodiversity. the principles of prevention, early detection, rapid eradication and long-term management and control provided for in the regulation will ensure the protection of biodiversity and reduce the potential for significant economic, environmental and ecological damage. in addition, a coordinated approach to the management and control of invasive alien species will address the problems of social and economic impact. i believe that it would be appropriate to extend the list of invasive alien species and to provide for additional measures to ensure that border control services are able to carry out effective border controls.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it is important to take the necessary measures and to lay down the technical rules to ensure the effective implementation of the kyoto protocol in the european union after 2012[n 1]. the european parliament considers that the scope of the proposed regulation on the monitoring and reporting of greenhouse gas emissions and other climate change-related information at national and eu level is fully in line with the need to develop specific and coherent rules to ensure the technical implementation of the kyoto protocol in the eu after 2012[n 1]. this requires the provision of the conditions for the effective joint implementation of the commitments of the eu, its member states and iceland. finally, it should be stressed that the formal entry into force of the doha amendment is one of the priority objectives of the european union, as the kyoto protocol makes a crucial contribution to the global effort to combat climate change.
in writing. - i welcome the proposal for a regulation which is necessary to ensure the implementation of the kyoto protocol beyond 2012. it is worth noting that the kyoto protocol makes a crucial contribution to the global effort to combat climate change. it is therefore essential to facilitate the effective joint fulfilment of the commitments of the union, its member states and iceland and to ensure transparency of the results of the parties to the agreement. it is noted that the second commitment period of the kyoto protocol will extend and strengthen the existing global emissions accounting system and their commitment. in this context, i support the proposed amendment to the regulation which will allow for the proper implementation of the commitments of the second kyoto protocol period, as it would allow for the issuance, transfer and transfer of kyoto units of account.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because fraud against the financial interests of the european union is a serious problem, which affects the eu budget and therefore the taxpayers, who urgently call on the european union institutions to ensure that public funds are allocated to structural growth, fiscal consolidation and job creation. there is a well-structured community anti-fraud legislation, but so far it has been implemented in the member states only through the adoption of insufficiently harmonised and harmonised rules and provisions, including sanctions. such a fragmented legal system encourages potential criminals to travel across europe in search of the most favourable legal system. the european parliament considers that the european union and the member states must respond strongly to fraud and other illegal activities affecting the eu's financial interests by applying deterrent measures and must provide effective and equivalent protection in all member states. the european parliament therefore responds with this report to the concerns of citizens and taxpayers and seeks to create a stronger basis for ensuring the protection of the european union's financial interests throughout the european union.
in writing. - i support the proposal for a directive. in particular, the fight against fraud and other illegal activities detrimental to the union budget requires the harmonisation of national legal systems, including criminal law instruments, and the application of a common eu policy. this is a significant step towards the creation of a european area of criminal justice. we must ensure effective, proportionate and dissuasive protection of the financial interests of the union. the framework for the functioning of the future european public prosecutor's office should be established on the basis of this directive. in particular, fraud should be distinguished from corruption and money laundering. the inclusion of vat fraud in the scope of the directive is to be welcomed. in order to protect the financial interests of the union, cooperation should not be limited to cooperation between member states and the commission, but should also include cooperation between member states. it is also appropriate to allow member states to set themselves sanctions other than criminal sanctions for minor fraud.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because the right of inquiry is an important part of the european parliament's powers of scrutiny. the right of the european parliament to set up a temporary committee of inquiry to investigate alleged breaches or maladministration in community legislation was originally laid down in the maastricht treaty. this proposed regulation proposes new amendments and improvements by setting up committees of inquiry and giving them powers. it is therefore proposed that committees of inquiry should have the necessary means to carry out their tasks of investigating alleged breaches of eu law and cases of maladministration in the application of eu law. these legal provisions appear to be sufficient and appropriate to ensure that the political control exercised by the european parliament, the only directly elected eu institution, is genuinely serious, effective and in line with the expectations of european citizens for democratic accountability and good governance. however, it should be noted that the european parliament is not a court and does not have the power to impose penalties on individual citizens. however, when all the member states adopted the treaty of lisbon, they also agreed to give the european parliament the right to investigate breaches of law or maladministration in the implementation of eu law. the member states are therefore legally obliged to oblige their administrative system to provide support to all possible ep committees of inquiry.
in writing. - i believe that the role of the european parliament's committees of inquiry should be strengthened and that they should be given specific, genuine and clearly defined powers, in accordance with the principle of proportionality. these are exclusive instruments of political control. in order to be able to carry out their tasks of investigating suspected breaches of union law and cases of maladministration in the application of union law, they need to be provided with certain necessary means. however, the powers conferred on committees of inquiry should be without prejudice to the responsibilities of other institutions and the doctrine of separation of powers should be strictly observed in order to avoid conflicts between investigations of a political nature and investigations of a judicial nature. on the other hand, it is necessary to ensure that research is carried out with full respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. furthermore, the findings of the investigation should be based only on elements of probative value. i support the proposal to provide for the possibility of effective, proportionate and dissuasive penalties in certain exceptional cases.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, which seeks to highlight one crucial aspect of the process of greater eu integration. it is indeed necessary to renew the citizens' link with europe. the european institutions should also include the parliaments of the eu member states. they are in fact part of the eu's parliamentary system. it is easy to say that they are not only the institutions of their own country but also those of the eu. in essence, their task is to make the institution that can be considered the eu's second chamber, the council, fully democratic and to bring citizens closer to europe. as regards the 'consultative function', which might be better described as 'political dialogue', the european parliament's relations with national parliaments are particularly intense; perhaps their regulation should be more precise and based not on the logic of amending or supplementing decisions but on the desire to provide additional benefits for the ep's political and legislative activities. it is also important to recognise the importance of exchanging information and cooperating between the european parliament and national parliaments. it is clear that mutual information helps national parliaments to make more informed assessments to the european parliament and the european parliament to take decisions that are supported by the general public, and thus enables national parliaments to transpose eu legislation more quickly and effectively.
in writing. - the eu budget is an instrument for the achievement of the european union's objectives. the eu's policy objectives and the means to achieve them must therefore be coherent and coordinated. common eu requirements should apply to own resources, control and supervision and accountability of national authorities. in addition, the new challenges and wide-ranging problems facing the eu require an increase in the european budget and the search for new financial instruments. it should be noted that the establishment of new own resources should pay particular attention to vat. this is a large-scale area of tax evasion. provisions should therefore be laid down to reduce or even eliminate fraud.
in writing. - in particular, the creation of favourable financial conditions for the implementation of commitments under the lisbon treaty, the europe 2020 strategy or the need to take action to stimulate growth. it should be noted that the own resources system is important from a structural and political point of view. this is an integral part of the eu's financial autonomy and a crucial factor in deciding the future of eu integration. in this context, strict democratic control of the own resources system must be applied. the financing system shall be transparent, flexible and clear.
in writing. - the value of the european solidarity fund is enormous: it not only stands for solidarity and help in the event of major natural disasters, it also effectively helps the eu and its member states to deal with the effects of serious disasters. since the creation of the fund in 2002, it has been successfully used for 56 disasters including floods, fires, storms, earthquakes and droughts, and has provided 23 european countries with support. this report highlights the importance of this fund and provides a set of measures to readjust this instrument to current circumstances in the eu, taking into account the economic situation of the eu and its member states. as one measure to improve its functioning, this report clarifies access criteria with regard to regional disasters, sets a general criterion for assessing the severity of damage caused, and makes the administrative procedure required for its mobilisation more effective. i welcome this set of measures that makes the operability of this fund more flexible and credible. in a time of crisis, all these adjustments to the rules will be beneficial for ensuring the eu’s effectiveness, coherence and assistance, which are needed in time of natural disasters.
i'll try to talk about the board's conclusions. the council of 26 and 27 june 2014 adopted decisions which undoubtedly have a major impact on the further development of the european union, on the standard of living of its citizens, and will therefore have an impact on the future of our lives and the lives of citizens of all the member states of the european union. i would like to highlight two issues which are of importance to all the countries of the european union, but particularly to lithuania. first, the council approved the commission's proposal to introduce the euro in lithuania as from 1 january 2015. this decision is of great importance both for lithuania and for all euro area countries. our neighbours, the baltic states of estonia and latvia, already have the euro. this decision will not only strengthen the lithuanian economy, but will increase the competitiveness of our state and will give lithuania greater financial and even political security. however, more than half of lithuanian citizens are still against the changeover to the euro, which poses a serious challenge to the lithuanian government, which must convince citizens of the benefits of this move. and only if or when the majority of lithuanian citizens understand and approve, will such a step be successful. the second council decision relating to the country i represent is the signing of the european union's association agreements with georgia and moldova, as well as the remaining provisions of the economic agreement with ukraine. the association agreement between the european union and ukraine was to be signed in vilnius, but for obvious reasons it was not. it is a good thing that the economic part of this agreement was signed by the same partner who was prepared for signing in vilnius. i think it's symbolic, you know? (the president agreed to answer the question after the blue card had been raised (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to the question posed by the blue card. one of the basic principles of direct democracy is that all major decisions must be agreed by all states with the majority of their citizens. that is one of the main provisions in this group. that is why i am in this group and why i believe that these positions are correct.
in writing. i congratulate italy on taking over the presidency of the council of the european union from greece. indeed, your presidency begins at an exceptional time with the newly elected european parliament and the commission of the new term still in the making. however, we hope that together we can do a lot for the people of europe and that it is the italian presidency that will give new impetus to several important pieces of legislation that have been delayed for some time in the eu council: the maternity leave directive and the so-called anti-discrimination directive. i am particularly pleased to see that italy has paid particular attention during its presidency to the social policy aspects of the european union - reducing poverty, unemployment, especially among young people, and promoting employability, with particular attention to science, education and exchange programmes. i particularly welcome the focus on combating illegal work. i am pleased to see that the italian presidency intends to continue the work recently started on the establishment of a european platform to combat illegal work. i fully agree that tackling illegal work is one of the key elements of the strategy for jobs and growth and that the role of inspections must be strengthened and their activities given greater attention, including at european union level. i would like to congratulate italy on its ambitious goals and wish it success and strength in achieving them.
in writing. first of all, i would like to emphasise that one of the biggest problems in many eu countries is undeclared work. illegal work has a negative impact on the economy and security of social protection systems in europe and in individual countries, and undermines social benefits and the whole system of financing public services. people forced to work illegally are exposed to insecurity, vulnerability and poverty in their workplaces, both in their working lives and in their old age. the fight against undeclared work was identified by the italian presidency as the most important tool for promoting employment and economic growth in europe. do you think that tackling undeclared work should be one of the eu's strategic priorities for the next term? what specific measures does the commission intend to take, and when, to step up the fight against illegal work in the eu? secondly, do you not think that the european union should take responsibility in solidarity and set up a special solidarity mobility fund to compensate for the money invested in the education and training of emigrant workers in those countries, including lithuania, from which the majority of emigrants have left? this is a very relevant problem because the movement of workers is one-way, i.e. one member state loses the majority of its workers while many others arrive. finally, i would like to ask you whether you intend to appoint a commissioner responsible for women's rights and gender equality and how do you intend to address the gender balance in the new commission?
as regards the situation in ukraine, it is very important to identify correctly what is happening there. i think that there is an undeclared hybrid war going on in ukraine, where one state, i'm talking about russia, has illegally seized part of another state, i'm talking about ukraine and crimea. he was also involved in the 'governmental' activities of the so-called 'government of the donetsk people's republic'. so, although unannounced, although using unusual military methods, the war in ukraine is going on. people are dying, including civilians. it's important to understand that this is not just a war against ukraine. this military conflict is a reflection of the global conflict that russia is currently in with western civilization and europe. if we do not respond properly, the only question is which european state will be next? will it be my homeland, lithuania, or the other baltic states, or moldova, or any other country in the world or in europe? and it will happen only because one of these states or their decisions will not please those who started and today support the war in ukraine. this is why it is so important today for all european states to have a common position and coordinate their actions in order to stop the military action in ukraine and to seek a peaceful solution. our common and firm position is important not only for the integrity of ukraine and its territory, but it is necessary and important first of all for our states, for the citizens of our states. so let us be united and determined to act together today, for tomorrow may be too late. (the president agreed to answer the question on the blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to the question posed by the blue card. the signing of the treaty, which was signed by ukraine, was the choice of the legitimately elected authorities of ukraine. i think every country has the right to choose the way i need it. i certainly do not think that these steps, rather than the aggressive stance of another state, namely russia, pose a potentially grave threat to the stability of europe and the security of all our countries.
ukraine's choice, born and raised in maidan earlier this year, to live in freedom, democracy, and to embark on political and economic reforms, did not fit into russia's projected future. russia has taken all kinds of political, diplomatic, economic, military and other actions to undermine the statehood of ukraine and the free choice of the people. he was responsible for the repression of the 'people's republic of donetsk' and the 'crimean people's republic'. we are witnessing a new kind of war: an undeclared war but with a growing number of casualties, no front but with the encroachment of foreign territory, and a relentless information war waged in the name of diplomatic relations. i call on russia to be part of the solution, not the initiator of the conflict. the war against ukraine has dangerously weakened the foundations of european security, re-established mistrust and red herring, and created the risk of regional terrorism and new frozen conflicts.
in writing. the ongoing conflict in ukraine is a matter of great concern and concern. the events surrounding the country have already adversely affected and will continue to affect the prospects for its further development and prosperity. the situation that has arisen confirms that the eu has not paid due attention to the eastern partnership policy in the past and has not properly assessed the political issues of the countries participating in this partnership. russia's actions in the context of events in ukraine clearly demonstrate that it is not a reliable partner for the eu, and its words are far from its actions. the eu's failure to find a unified and clear position on both ukraine and russia is dividing europe itself and weakening it politically. it is because of the eu's delayed inaction that we have today an unstable, fractious, fragmented and destabilised ukraine, which poses a serious threat not only to the security of its closest neighbours, the baltic states, but also to the security of the european union as a whole. the eu must strengthen its external policy, especially in the eastern partnership, make every effort to agree and implement consistent eu action to stabilise the situation at home and take a clear stance on eu relations with russia. the new commission's newly appointed rapporteur, jean-claude juncker, rightly stressed that the eu needs a stronger ukraine, but to achieve this the eu must first of all be united on foreign policy.
mr president, the crimean occupation and continued aggression in eastern ukraine have more than ever displayed the need for even deeper and more integrated cooperation, not only between european countries but between the eu and the us as well. i am sure all of us would agree that the free trade agreement not only boosts economic growth and the creation of new jobs, but at this time can be regarded as a means for ensuring geopolitical stability and peace in europe. that is why we have to ensure relevant political attention and that the negotiations with us will not stall and they will move forward. even more, we can observe how, as if by chance, at every step of the negotiations between the eu and the us some damaging information appears. one could start suspecting that someone is interested in stopping the process as early as possible. that is one more reason why we have to keep pushing forward.
i understand that the 28 countries of the european union are different: they have their own traditions, their own policies and systems for family support, but we are also united by certain common values and rescues. this is, first and foremost, the free movement of persons and workers within the free common market. so in this case, it is absolutely irrelevant where the mother gives birth, works, raises children: whether it is italy, sweden, germany or my native lithuania, but that mother and that father must have minimum social standards, minimum guarantees and maternity leave. that is what we are trying to do with this directive. and so i have great faith and i look to the italian presidency to ensure that we do not give up, and it is a bad sign to start the new european parliament with such a step backwards and to show its impotence both in the commission and in the council and its lack of confidence in the european parliament. i believe that sitting down together at the table can help us find solutions. i wish you would.
for the efdd group in 2004, lithuania joined a different european union. in the last ten years it has changed beyond recognition: unfortunately, i must say that we have not built a european community that citizens can trust, that more than half a billion europeans can become part of. most lithuanians are less optimistic about their future than they were 10 years ago: i am talking about social exclusion, unemployment and people's disappointment. today we are discussing the introduction of the euro in lithuania. i believe that the lithuanian people, which many centuries ago created its state, based its legal foundations on statutes and constitutions, which for centuries has steadfastly defended its freedom and independence, preserved its spirit, native language, script and customs, is not just a simple formality. it's a partial renunciation of statehood. more than half of lithuanians polled in the spring of 2013 had a negative opinion of the introduction of the euro in lithuania. ladies and gentlemen, most lithuanians do not want the euro. and we simply have no right to ignore it. i heard jean-claude juncker speak today. i quote: 'i want the eu to be closer to the people'. mr president, will the introduction of the euro against the will of the majority of people bring the eu closer to the people? (the president agreed to answer the question on the blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
blue-card question. – i would ask like to ask mr paksas who he is really working for, because i do not think he has even checked the latest ratings of euro popularity. he has not thought about the young people of lithuania who are the future of lithuania, who are going to pay the pensions. he is being very populist – and he was a president who was removed from office. he was expelled. that is why he has an opinion. he is a populist. i am ashamed to hear such a speech from him. i would like to ask: who are you representing?
answer to the question posed by the blue card. thank you very much for the opportunity to say who is represented by the member of the european parliament from the state of lithuania: from now on, until now, today and always only the state of lithuania. if representing the opinion of the citizens of lithuania, i repeat, the opinion of the citizens, who are in the absolute majority today, against the change of currency, is populism, then i accept this word with honor.
madam president, i should like to thank my colleagues for all the nice words that we have heard about my country. today we heard the new president of the commission saying that the euro is saving europe and in lithuania we definitely agree with that. just yesterday it was announced that according to the latest surveys lithuanians are back on the list of the biggest euro optimists. we are looking forward to joining the euro area from 1 january next year. joining means two things for us. firstly, that the path of prudent financial planning and austerity measures and structural reforms really works. it is a great acknowledgement of the difficult process that took place in lithuania. austerity was not easy, it never is, but now we are the ones to say that it was worth it. another reason why euro-optimism is rising is that against the background of the aggression against ukraine, people want more security and it is clear today that europe and the euro area are a geopolitical haven that people seek. so once again the upcoming joining by lithuania of the euro area is a great recognition and a strong message of a united europe.
first of all, i would like to congratulate my country, lithuania, which has worked very hard and has successfully met the necessary convergence criteria and has the opportunity to join the euro area family as of 1 january next year. lithuania is a small country, and therefore participation in the euro area will certainly help our country to expand trade and financial links with other euro area countries, create better conditions for foreign investment, which in turn will promote an increase in the income of lithuanians and quality employment and jobs. in addition, the positive impact of the introduction of the euro will be felt by the population as a result of the reduced interest burden, the disappearance of the litas and the costs of converting to the euro, finally, exports will grow faster in my country, and the investments that our country so needs will certainly come to lithuania faster. in conclusion, the referendum in lithuania was held before the country joined the european union. the lithuanian people then agreed to be in this family and to adopt the euro under certain conditions. i would therefore like to wish that the introduction of the euro in lithuania will also promote economic growth, job creation and the social well-being of the people.
lithuania's accession to the economic and monetary union is a right, logical and decisive step towards further integration into the european union. faced with the challenges of the economic crisis, lithuania took timely action to limit budgetary expenditure and accelerate the necessary social and economic reforms. this has enabled the economy to remain competitive, to start creating new jobs and to restore economic growth. lithuania's economy has been growing for five consecutive years, the best performance on reforms, and this is confirmed by international markets. in the 1980s, when lithuania was breaking free from soviet occupation, we heard a lot of encouragement from the kremlin: don't do it, stay where you are. but, my dear colleagues, the lithuanian people are rational, looking to the future. they know what decisions to make, they don't need advisers in this area. ladies and gentlemen, in january the euro will be speaking lithuanian, and euro coins will be in the pockets of europeans. i expect a sound and necessary decision from this parliament.
i support and congratulate lithuania on taking this very important step. the government has worked hard to meet the criteria for adopting the euro. but unfortunately, it is also being introduced at the expense of the poorest of the poor: pensioners, minimum wage workers, and so on. as a result, today more lithuanians are against the euro than in favour of its rapid adoption. in order to meet the criteria for the introduction of the euro, the minimum and average wages were reduced during the crisis, they have not yet been restored to their previous level and the difference has not been compensated. this is unfair. as lithuania's economy is growing and has already reached pre-crisis levels, i urge the lithuanian government to resolve these problems by the end of this year and hopefully public opinion will change. i think it's a win-win for all of us.
first of all, i want to thank the announcer and the shadow announcers for the good news that will be delivered to the people of lithuania from this hall today. lithuania will have the opportunity to join the euro area next year and start taking full advantage of the opportunities offered by economic and monetary union. the euro will provide an additional boost to lithuania's economy and the well-being of its population, eliminate exchange rate risks, create a strong basis for lower interest rates and provide greater opportunities for a faster rise in people's living standards. this is what we all in lithuania - and i personally - wanted back in 2006. the fulfilment of the conditions for the adoption of the euro shows that lithuania is once again capable of pursuing a responsible economic policy. this increases lithuania's attractiveness to job-creating investors. the deepening of lithuania's economic integration into the european union is also creating a more favourable environment for international trade. i believe that the introduction of the euro in the last baltic state will make the region more integrated and attractive to investors and to those who see it as... (the president interrupts the speaker)
madam president, i think that lithuania joining the euro is a huge achievement. it is an achievement that the whole country is proud of. they actually showed this in the current elections where the pro-european parties dominated. the liberals had a very successful election, as did the social democrats and the conservatives. all these three parties are pro-euro. it is also very interesting to note that lithuania was formerly pegged to the us dollar, and we moved over to trusting the euro a long time ago. we were there. we missed it in 2006 by 0.01%. that is how honest lithuania is. we should be proud of it. we did not fix our figures to qualify in 2006. we took the pain, we worked hard and we suffered a lot. the people of lithuania suffered a great deal and we have to live with that. we need the support of europe. we need investment in lithuania. we can grow. we are pro-european and europe should be proud of lithuania, as i am.
in writing. mr president, the situation in the euro area is currently very volatile and will remain so for quite some time. in such a situation, lithuania's entry into the single currency area would be a mistake. the currency provides a fairly good buffer against the negative effects of the economic and financial crisis. in turn, the rapid introduction of the euro will immediately cause our country the problems that the countries currently involved in monetary union are facing, including the requirement to allocate large sums to rescue failing countries. the euro does not unite, but rather deepens divisions even among those countries that have adopted the single currency. the euro is not strengthening but rather weakening the european union as the only region in the world that is so deeply in recession. today lithuania should ask itself whether the euro is a reliable currency and whether it would not be better to keep its own currency, at least until the situation in the euro area is clear and predictable. in the current situation, a delay in the introduction of the euro seems to be the best solution. and, most importantly, it would be safe for lithuanians, protecting them from the drastic rise in the prices of goods and services that has occurred in almost all countries adopting the euro after possible euro accession. we cannot allow the burden of introducing the euro to fall on the ordinary lithuanian people, who have already been struggling with the crisis for several years. lithuania must preserve its currency, as only an independent monetary policy will allow it to respond flexibly to the economic situation in europe and the world.
i thank commissioner andor for his information on the current situation in the member states with regard to youth employment. you're really working on this. despite the many voices and initiatives raised by the european parliament, there is still very little positive progress in the field of youth employment. are the member states really doing enough to implement the youth guarantee? as the commissioner mentioned, even seven countries have not yet drawn up plans for implementing the youth guarantee. youth unemployment can no longer be seen as a problem of lack of education or unclaimed skills. training, appropriate and early career guidance, and high quality of labour market-relevant science are certainly part of the solution, but job creation - the other side of the problem - must be placed high on the european union's agenda. another important problem is discrimination against young people in the workplace. even when they are employed, young people are discriminated against and exploited, which is why the statistics on poverty and social exclusion among young people are unjustifiably high in our europe. young people also need job security, social protection and social guarantees, as the charter of fundamental rights of the european union enshrines the right to social protection for all: not only for experienced workers but also for those who are starting out. and, again, have we been too focused in our discussions on the economic aspects of youth unemployment? why don't we talk about the impact of youth unemployment on the demographics of our continent? what do you think about the connection between safe jobs, or no jobs at all, for a young person to start a family and raise children? this is so important for our ageing europe.
in writing. - i voted for this report, which is very important for lithuania. first of all, i would like to welcome and congratulate my country, which has successfully, with a lot of effort, met the necessary convergence criteria and has the opportunity to join the euro family. the single currency of the european union is one of europe's greatest achievements. it is unclear what the economic situation would be in europe today if it were not for the euro, because having different currencies would have put us in the grip of banks and fiscal transactions during the crisis. lithuania's accession to the euro area thus demonstrates once again the success and necessity of the single currency in europe. the euro is one of the most important links linking europe, and i am confident that we will continue its successful history. i would like to wish my country that the introduction of the euro in lithuania will continue to promote economic growth, job creation and quality employment, so that the lithuanian people will eventually feel its benefits in their daily lives.
in writing. - i believe that the decision on lithuania's accession to the eurozone could have fundamental consequences for the future of the state and the nation. therefore, at the most important stages of the development of the state, the government should listen to the voice of the people. we cannot ignore the fact that the majority of lithuanians do not want the euro. however, the 'euro train' is coming to our country at a tremendous speed, despite the fact that more than half of lithuanians have a negative opinion on lithuania's accession to the euro area.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, the world we live in is far from ideal in spite of continuous and multiple efforts by many of us. the world’s history in general, and europe’s in particular, is full of dark pages of wars, aggression, destruction and other unfortunate events. did we learn any lessons? did we do everything possible to prevent that happening again? it does not look so, even though we have just commemorated the start of world war one and are about to meet the 75th anniversary of the start of world war two. at the same time we have to salute all international efforts to close legal loopholes that still exist in international humanitarian law and the rome statutes by criminalising the crime of aggression. we have to agree that this can be done only by undertaking all possible measures, by accepting necessary legal frameworks for naming the illegal use of force which manifestly violates the united nations charter. in 2010 the states parties, including all eu member states, adopted the kampala amendments to the rome statute which establishes the international criminal court. the above-mentioned amendments mainly provide for adding the crime of aggression to the list of crimes falling under icc jurisdiction, thereby completing the icc jurisdiction and deterring member states from illegal use of force. it is against those who are willing and ready to challenge the peace and security of others. here i should make clear that the kampala amendments do not cover cases of self-defence or a un security council mandate. by now eight eu member states have ratified and completed procedures for enforcing the kampala amendments; it is good but not enough. 2014 is a crucial year to encourage states to start and continue the process of ratification of the amendments, given the long time that ratification of international instruments requires in many countries. the existing momentum should be fully used to push for ratification now. the resolution we are debating tonight explicitly calls for an eu common position around the issue. this is the key part of the document. the resolution in focus is about protecting human rights: this is the ultimate goal of the eu’s policies.
in writing. - the democratic phenomenon of the maidan, which has re-born the hope of the ukrainian people to live in a free, democratic and european country, requires the full and strong support of the european union. the signing of the association agreement between the european union and ukraine on 27 june opened the way to a new type of cooperation. the implementation of the approved free trade agreement is undoubtedly the right step, which meets the expectations of both sides. the new ukrainian government's path of fighting corruption, strengthening the country's governance, improving economic governance and ensuring civil rights, based on strong political power, has received the support of the democratic world and, unfortunately, hostile opposition from the authorities of the russian federation. the unprecedented and disinformation-based propaganda campaign launched by russia against ukraine and the western states is directed against the principles of peaceful coexistence of neighbouring states. the process of direct russian aggression against ukraine, in violation of international agreements and other osce principles, has reached a critical point. he is responsible for the repression of the so-called 'people's republic of donetsk'. he has been involved in the illegal annexation of crimea by the russian federation since 2014. the european union must remain an active and constructive partner of ukraine in helping it to overcome its current difficulties. europe cannot afford another frozen conflict that undermines stability and poses a security risk. the european union's solidarity with ukraine is a commitment by all of us to continue the project of a europe united, secure and prosperous.
in writing. - we are about to mark the 75th anniversary of the molotov-ribbentrop pact, when the two aggressors divided europe. it took 65 years before we reversed the benefits of this pact in 2004. let's not divide europe again, no matter how sweet the offer from russia is - let's not give up ukraine. we must demand clearly and unequivocally that russia withdraw its troops from the ukrainian border, and stop supplying the terrorists with weapons and military equipment. the downing of a civilian airliner only proves that this conflict is not local. no one can feel safe as long as there are foreign-backed terrorists operating in eastern ukraine. europe has the political economic muscle to impose tougher sanctions if russian aggression continues. we have to talk about the european perspective for ukraine, and i understand that this is a difficult subject for many of you here, but believe me, for those fighting in ukraine, this is a matter of life and death. these developments show that we need to strengthen deeper cooperation not only with our eastern neighbours, but also with our strategic transatlantic partners, the us and canada, who share our values of freedom and democracy.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution because it draws the attention of the european parliament to the problems of young people - the high level of unemployment and the increase in poverty among young people. i am one of the authors of this resolution. data provided by the european commission show that in 2012, up to a third of all young people in europe were at risk of poverty and social exclusion. this is due to the deep-rooted discrimination against young people in workplaces across europe. even when young people are employed, they are discriminated against and even exploited, often facing what is known as 'working poverty'. even when young people are employed, they are discriminated against and even exploited. this is why the statistics on poverty and social exclusion among young people are so unjustifiably high in our rich and secure europe. youth also need job security, social protection and social guarantees. the eu charter of fundamental rights enshrines the right to social protection for all - not just experienced workers but also newcomers.
in writing. - youth unemployment is still a particularly serious and difficult problem to tackle in the eu countries, which is why i voted in favour of the resolution. in addition to a detailed description of the situation of youth unemployment in the eu countries, the document also contains specific recommendations for the eu member states, which i believe would significantly improve the unemployment situation if implemented. i think it is particularly important to note that in 2012 small and medium-sized enterprises accounted for as much as 66.5% of all jobs in europe, and eu countries must therefore ensure that they have the right legal and financial conditions to establish and develop. it is also necessary to create favourable conditions for the creation and development of new innovative businesses.
madam president, i should like to thank the commissioner for coming in. commissioner, it is a pleasure to have you here. colleagues, i am from a very small country: lithuania. a lot of you have said today – surprisingly – that we need an alternative policy with russia. if only we were diplomatic with them, they might stop. they might have forgotten to hit that plane in the sky that just fell down. no one has even talked about that plane. there were a lot of dutch people on it. russia will not stop. lithuanians will keep supporting sanctions until they stop. russia will stop when they realise that we are united – that we are europe together and that we will not tolerate losing a few million here and there. we will not tolerate them doing this to us, because we are united: we are a real europe. look at eurostat – 20 % of agricultural exports to russia are from lithuania and we endorse these sanctions. we want more sanctions. we want russia to stop in ukraine. so, commissioner, please consider declaring the baltic states an area of specific need. look at the direct european support to the baltic states. we receive the least. is it fair? it is time for europe to wake up and unite and also to be fair. commissioner, please consider this – and everybody, it is time to unite against russia.
in writing. one good news we heard from the commission this evening is that support for eu farmers affected by the russian embargo will be renewed, and seasonal fruit and vegetable growers can expect support again this year. while the commission has responded effectively by adopting measures for those sectors, the meat and milk sectors are equally affected by the russian embargo. the situation of farmers in some eu member states is further complicated by the swine fever problem, which the commission has not yet been prepared to address and support, unlike the e. coli crisis in 2011, when emergency aid was provided to the large eu member states affected by it. the russian embargo and the recent difficulties within the eu itself are a test to see how the eu upholds the principle of solidarity with its member states. the russian embargo is a serious problem for all eu countries and i hope that europe will stand up to it in solidarity and unity.
in writing. lithuania and the other baltic states are hit hardest by the russian embargo. and we're not just talking about business losses here. the social consequences, which are also significant, will undoubtedly be felt by the most vulnerable social groups in our countries, through falling incomes and even the loss of jobs. i therefore urge the commission to assess the need for additional support to countries whose labour markets will be affected by the russian embargo. in this context, i would suggest that consideration be given to the possibility of support from the european globalisation adjustment fund, so that the funds from this fund can be used more efficiently and effectively to help workers who may be dismissed in the future from companies affected by russian sanctions. i would also like to urge the commission to declare the baltic countries a special needs area and to set up a special fund for these countries to support baltic farmers and compensate them for their losses. the challenges already faced by baltic farmers due to the still low level of direct payments in the european union and the disproportionate impact of the russian import ban make it clear that the agricultural sector in estonia, latvia and lithuania needs specific eu support. it should also be borne in mind that the russian actions are no less important and require a long-term solution to the crisis. eu assistance is also needed to help farmers to reorient themselves to other agricultural sectors and to find alternative markets for their produce.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, commissioners, the present situation in ukraine remains very, and increasingly, complicated. we are witnessing a war going on and war crimes being committed in europe. this has deconstructed the european security system and exposed ukraine to undeclared aggression from russia. the pretext for russia’s military action against ukraine was the choice – by the free will of the ukrainian people and the country’s new leadership – of a european perspective to create new and more transparent governance, to fight corruption and to develop a free-trade exchange with the european union. is that a crime or a danger for the existing system? who can presume to sit in judgment and decide to impose a harsh situation on neighbouring countries? many of us were taken by surprise by the announcement on 12 september that the implementation of the eu-ukraine association agreement was being postponed for 15 months. it is as if a young couple’s parents had decided after the wedding to postpone the honeymoon for 15 months. notwithstanding the format of trilateral talks, we have to respect the autonomy of eu decision-making, the competence of eu institutions and eu procedures. we should be asking the question: is this not ultimately a recognition of the eu’s inability to impose a necessary level of sanctions against russia, and the continuation of a self-imposed policy of restraint? finally, colleagues, by accepting the ‘three seas’ policy of the high representative and, i am sorry to say, the italian presidency, we simply support a ‘no voice, no action’ policy line. i find that most regrettable, and i hope our ratification today of the eu-ukraine association agreement will be a necessary step in the right direction. let us vote together for europe’s future and for a democratic and european ukraine.
in spite of the efforts of the ukrainian state and its leader, petro poroshenko, the european union, other states, despite the fragile ceasefire that saved thousands of lives, the struggle for the territorial integrity of the ukrainian state, including crimea, and the struggle for the right of the ukrainian state and its citizens to freely choose and live as they want, continues and does not seem to end soon. vladimir putin and his entourage, intoxicated by imperial ambitions, continue the war without sparing their own lives or the lives of ukrainian citizens, even without hiding the fact that the regular russian army is involved. the baltic states are also attacked, under the guise of defending the rights of the russian-speaking population. in this situation, it is particularly important for all our countries to concentrate and unite, by not selling military equipment to russia, including aircraft carriers, by applying economic sanctions and by defending against russian economic or energy blackmail, which may be strong. i'm talking about russia's attempts to cut gas supplies and the ban on food exports from european union countries. we must understand and work together quickly to help the farmers in the european countries who suffer the most from such things. i am talking about lithuania, which is exactly such a country, and i am talking about other countries whose farmers need such support. my dear colleagues, let us understand that only by joint efforts and concentration can we make the aggressor understand that the rules of the 21st century are no longer set by them.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this recommendation because the association agreement between the european union and ukraine is the first of a new generation of association agreements signed with the eastern partnership countries. the association agreement aims to accelerate the development of political and economic relations between ukraine and the eu. it is also a very important historical moment in that the european parliament, despite the tense political situation, did not withdraw and ratified the eu-ukraine association agreement. in view of the historically close and increasingly close relations between the european union and ukraine, as well as the current political situation in the european neighbourhood, the european parliament seeks to strengthen and expand relations, strengthen democracy and the development of civil society in a decisive and innovative way through this association agreement.
in writing. - i see today’s voting as a fruitful result of the eastern partnership summit meeting in vilnius, lithuania. it is unfortunate that the eu-ukraine association agreement can only be signed after a lot of losses in maidan and eastern ukraine. i believe that the ratification today is a strong symbolic gesture, which shows our support for ukrainians that made a european choice almost a year ago. today is a historic day for ukraine as well as for the european union, which enables us to share the same values and move towards a common future. nevertheless, the eu has to be united and stand together with ukraine to be able to deal with the increasing pressure coming from russia. we have to look at today's political crisis as an opportunity to move forwards, search for new markets and decrease our dependence on russia.
in writing. - i voted for this recommendation on the free movement of workers from ukraine. this notice lays down specific rules concerning equal treatment of third-country nationals legally employed in the territory of another contracting party. the association agreement between the european union and ukraine is the first of a new generation of association agreements signed with the eastern partnership countries. the association agreement aims to accelerate the development of political and economic relations between ukraine and the eu. in view of the historically close and growing relations between the european union and ukraine, as well as the current political situation in the european neighbourhood, the european parliament supports the conclusion of the agreement and the desire to strengthen and expand the relations in a decisive and innovative way through this association agreement.
the question asked when the blue card is raised. indeed, the russian embargo imposed on the eu's overall diplomatic activity has affected all countries and sectors in different ways. the baltic states, poland and finland were particularly affected. and especially people who live in the countryside. and it is clear that the funds allocated today will not be enough to compensate for this area, so do you not think that other funds should contribute?
the question asked when the blue card is raised. i represent a country which will soon on 1 january be adopting the euro. as you know, countries wishing to adopt the euro have to meet the maastricht criteria. however, there is no such criterion as the guarantee of a minimum income. i think it might be right to establish a transitional period, so that the state takes better care of the population, the people, and that the country is more united. what do you think? (the debate was closed.)
madam president, the first thing: the youth guarantee sounds good; unfortunately it is probably not going to work, but it sounds nice. it sounds as though we could guarantee a job to everybody. we cannot. we need reforms, and i think the commissioner should know that. we need very serious reforms in europe. we do not need closed borders. some of our british colleagues think it would help the uk and that if we just closed them and did not let in those eastern europeans, we would be protected. some colleagues think that a big rise in the minimum wage would fix it. it will not. we need reforms. it needs to be easier to hire people, and there needs to be some ease in terms of letting them go when times are tough. that would give companies the confidence they need to hire people. it is all about confidence. will we all create a confident europe with a single market where people can travel from lithuania to the uk and get a job (or vice versa)? maybe if they are very talented and skilled and if we work with schools and universities to educate people for the future, for the digital economy, the digital single market – that is a big reform we need – and energy, another big reform we need. so i want you to open up, join and together create a europe that is going to be efficient and competitive. then we will all win. so reform, unfortunately, is the only way we are going to ... (the president cut off the speaker)
for the second consecutive session, we have been discussing the issue of youth employment, which shows that it is indeed a priority for this parliament. it is essential that all efforts be concentrated to move as quickly as possible from planning and preparation to actual implementation of the youth guarantee. i am very confident that the change of commission will not hinder this work. i welcome the commission's assessment of the implementation of the pilot projects. this project was also successful in my home country of lithuania, where eight districts tried to coordinate the efforts of the social partners to better inform young people about their choice of vocational training and employment. the commission should ensure the dissemination of the positive results of these projects in the european union. i also propose that the commission respond more quickly to labour market developments in the member states and help adapt the national plans for the implementation of the youth guarantee accordingly. monitoring the implementation of the plans is equally important. i think that there should be no rush to set new indicators, which can create difficulties in the implementation of various projects. in conclusion, i would like to thank lászló andor for our five years of cooperation. i wish you the best of luck in your future career.
madam president, first of all let me say a thank you for the considerable work that went into the preparation of the report, but let me also draw attention to the human rights situation right on the border of the european union. the tatar nation, which faced horrible persecution and sufferings during the stalin era, is now facing the same situation again. as we speak, full-scale discriminatory action against tatars is underway in crimea. their homes are being searched and their leader is not allowed to enter the country. people are being persecuted just for keeping religious literature in their homes. so i call upon the eu to show clear support and solidarity with crimean tatars, whose basic rights are being violated in their own homeland, which is under illegal occupation. discrimination and human rights abuse in russia has reached new heights as well, even when compared to the soviet union. as you may know, mothers of the russian soldiers who are fighting in ukraine have formed an association, but this association has now been called a ‘foreign agent’ and therefore could be banned, just because they announced that their children are dying in the war in ukraine. i think i can say that mr andrei sakharov, whom we honour every year when we nominate the most important defenders of human rights, would himself be persecuted and named a foreign agent by mr putin and his regime. therefore, i call for the implementation of the eu strategic framework and action plan on human rights and democracy, this and the next year, to focus the necessary attention and resources in particular on the above-mentioned groups on the eastern border of the eu. if we cannot stop the violations in the countries that are closest to us, that not only weakens the position of the european union but also sends a very bad signal to all countries that are seeking deeper cooperation with the eu. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – for the moment we do not see any real developments in kaliningrad concerning human rights violations. the more important issues in kaliningrad are increasing militarisation that threatens the region’s stability. that is what i would like to stress.
madam president, the amendment is more of a linguistic nature. instead of the words ‘can be’ i propose the words ‘should be’. the sentence would read like this: ‘strongly stresses that there should be a political solution to this conflict’.
in writing. - i welcome the resolution adopted by the ep. ukraine now needs all our help in withstanding the hybrid war waged against her by russia and our support for responding to huge economic challenges and staying on the path of the european reforms. at the same time, i am calling on member states to adopt and implement full ban on any arms deliveries to russia. the french government's decision to suspend the planned delivery of the mistral assault ships to russia is a step in the right direction; however, the contract must be cancelled. this is the question of credibility and effectiveness of the eu policies towards the russian invasion and occupation of its neighbour's territories. taking into account that by cancelling the contract france will suffer financial losses worth more than 1.2 bln euros, the member states should consider compensatory mechanism and modalities of engaging the mistral ships in the eu related missions, such as frontex in the mediterranean.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because the international community has a greater role to play and african states also have a greater responsibility to play, because the ebola outbreak is a threat to global security and it is not just a west african problem, it is a global problem. the european parliament therefore calls on the commission to step up its efforts and coordinate with the united nations in the fight against the ebola outbreak. the european parliament, by its resolution, asks the un security council to consider, together with partner countries affected by the ebola outbreak, the possibility of using military and civil defence resources under the direction of the secretary-general and in coordination with the office for the coordination of humanitarian affairs. the european parliament also calls on the council and the commission to support and encourage the african union in the necessary comprehensive plan of action, as the situation continues to deteriorate rapidly and affects the economies and public order of the countries concerned. the ebola crisis is complex and has political, security, economic and social implications that will affect the region well beyond this medical emergency.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. the deadly virus that has swept through west africa, although currently localised, could also soon reach europe. especially when we hear about one or two cases of the virus that's been passed on. the world health organization acknowledges that the outbreak has been underestimated and predicts that the number of cases could exceed 20,000 in the next three months. i agree with the resolution that scientific cooperation and technological assistance in the areas affected by the outbreak should be strengthened. it also includes the widest possible involvement of health professionals in education and prevention work to help detect the early signs of this rogue virus. i think one of the key principles of the international community is to focus on coordinating vaccine medical research and production, and to be transparent and fair about vaccine trials.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. in the 21st century, discrimination on any grounds is hard to understand. the european parliament adopted a resolution on the situation in iraq, calling on the iraqi authorities to take all necessary measures to ensure that the situation in iraq is not further worsened. i also support the call in the resolution to draw attention to the plight of women and children in iraq and syria, and to ensure their freedom and respect for their fundamental rights. the international community cannot remain indifferent to any violation of human rights, no matter where it occurs - in syria, iraq or right here in the eu's eastern neighbourhood.
in writing. - the situation in libya today is extremely volatile. since 2011, when libyan citizens took to the streets, the country has been in a difficult economic, political, social situation abductions of foreign nationals, detention of human rights defenders, journalists. with electricity, water, fuel, food supply all shut down, and elections held, islamists do not recognize the elected parliament, they have formed their own government and parliament. the activities of terrorist organisations and arms smuggling are of particular concern, as they destabilise not only the country but also the region. the european union is feeling the effects of this war more than anyone else - refugees washing up on the shores of malta or italy in extremely poor, inhuman conditions. we, the citizens of europe, in the knowledge that europe does not end at the borders of the continent, but that the eu does end at the borders of its member states, must support and help the regions suffering from the aggressors and the acts of war.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because it is important to ensure respect for human rights, democracy and the rule of law in the region. in addition, the protection of human rights is an essential element of the cotonou agreement, which governs relations between the african, caribbean and pacific (acp) countries and the european union (eu). as regards relations between the region and the eu, it should be stressed that the cotonou agreement remains the basis for the eu's partnership with the acp countries. the european parliament therefore takes the view that the current fijian military government, which has taken its own life, has no legitimate authority to take any decision on the application and ratification of the interim economic partnership agreement and that the decision of 17 july 2014 should be considered null and void accordingly. the president of the european parliament shall inform the commission that the delegated regulation cannot enter into force for these reasons.
in writing. i support the assessment of the eu's response to the ebola threat. i would also like to stress that not all member states are directly affected by this. however, physical distance from a threat does not mean greater security, it may just mean less preparedness in the event of a real-life encounter. for example, my country, lithuania, has very little contact with ebola hotspots in africa. and our doctors learn more about this threat from their colleagues or from specialized publications, if not from the media. however, this does not mean that lithuanian doctors are better prepared to deal with the possible spread of this virus in lithuania. on the contrary, the lack of real medical expertise in the case of a potential virus delivery can contribute significantly to the spread of such a threat. to prevent the spread of ebola, as with other dangerous viruses, it is necessary to promote the exchange of information between all member states at eu level, to encourage the exchange of doctors, to enable all those who wish to gain relevant first-hand experience. and here the eu can play a very important role, both in disseminating information and in supporting the exchange of expertise.
the question asked when the blue card is raised. i want to ask you: as if there is money, as if there are funds and systems, but the unemployment problem is not decreasing, but increasing. does it not seem that this system is too bureaucratic and we should think about how to decentralize it more and allow more local government to be involved so that local government can actually address these problems, rather than just leaving it to the national states and dealing with the problems through national programmes?
mr president, i should like to thank mr de backer for that comprehensive report. the european semester is a helpful tool in providing input, international and economic decision-making, and it is a step towards fiscal and economic union, but we have just heard mr woolfe’s passionate plea, so the wolf pack is on our heels. we have to note what is going on. these people are ready to rip apart europe. they are ready to destroy our future for their benefit, for their political short-term gains, so now is the time to unite, to work together to aim for the single market. i think that is our future. i do not think we can throw eur 300 billion or eur 400 billion at it and make a big change. it will be a very small dent and it will be gone in a year. we have to go for reforms. we have to bring member states here and question them on why they are not implementing the suggestions that we send to them. this is the problem. they are not taking up the suggestions and we need more enforcement on this. i think all the guidelines are pretty good. i am reading the council recommendations and so on. they are all great, it is smart people who are preparing them, but member states have to take responsibility and we have to hold them responsible for this implementation and for the reforms. it is the only way forward. so i wish you all the best of luck. you have my support.
i would like to draw attention to one of the major problems in the european union: the constantly increasing poverty, especially child poverty. as many as 27% of children in the european union live in or near poverty. therefore, both the commission and the member states must take urgent measures to eradicate child poverty. the second problem i want to highlight is the poverty of women, because women are now the largest share of the lowest earners. i therefore call on both the commission and the member states to provide specific recommendations to reduce the gender pay gap and, therefore, the gender pension gap. member states should ensure that people have the necessary social protection, access to health and social services, and should increase the inclusion of vulnerable groups in the labour market, reduce poverty at work and promote gender equality, taking into account the recommendations of the european parliament. ladies and gentlemen, social investment is essential to ensure the future of the member states and the european union as a whole.
, in writing. the european semester for the coordination of economic policies is of particular importance for the proper functioning of the economic union. however, it is also worth noting that it has a major impact on social stability and the lives of every eu citizen. this is particularly true in the european union, which has been hit by an economic crisis that has seriously worsened the living conditions of many european citizens, including those in lithuania. the crisis has also led to increased levels of inequality and poverty, and has limited people's access to the good quality public services that should be the norm in europe in the 21st century. the debate on the eu semester provides an excellent opportunity to encourage member states to step up action in areas where citizens are at risk of social exclusion. the phenomenon of social exclusion is a worrying one and is increasingly occurring among young people. the european union, like its member states, must therefore take a more active approach to tackling unemployment, especially among young people who are taking their first steps into the labour market. in addition, coordinated economic policies must take account of support at all levels to create more jobs. it is therefore worth considering a proposal that encourages the commission to focus more on the reforms needed to support the delivery of high-quality public services, with a particular focus on healthcare systems in the member states. for this strategy to be effective, it must be based on development-oriented investments, better use of human resources to make labour markets more flexible and more responsive to economic change.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because it is the report by which parliament gave its consent to the european globalisation adjustment fund for the valencia region of spain. the aid was decided to be granted to the employees of the enterprises active in the production of metal products, whose redundancies during the reference period from 1 april 2013 to 31 december 2013 were 633 (of which 300 employees were covered by the support under the egf co-financed measures) out of 142 enterprises in the region. the application submitted by spain met the criteria for the award of a financial contribution under the egf regulation. the commission and parliament also took into account the fact that the metal products sector is a major supplier of raw materials to various manufacturing industries, in particular the shipbuilding, construction and automotive sectors, which have been severely affected by the economic crisis throughout the union. the egf will provide a harmonised package of services tailored to the needs of redundant workers, including career guidance, recruitment, training, entrepreneurship promotion, business start-up support, job search allowance, travel expenses to training and an employment promotion measure.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because it was the report parliament gave its approval to the european globalisation adjustment fund for the city of genk, belgium. the parliament found that the application fulfilled the criteria for the granting of a financial contribution under the egf regulation, although the conditions relating to the minimum number of redundancies during the reference period were only partially fulfilled as less than 500 workers were made redundant. the egf regulation provides that an application for a financial contribution from the egf may be considered admissible where the redundancies have a significant impact on the employment level and the local economy. in the belgian region of frontier, two further waves of redundancies are expected in 2014, with more than 11 000 job losses forecast. parliament therefore decided that the speedy implementation of specific measures to assist the first group of redundant workers would improve their chances of finding a new job and ensure equal opportunities for all redundant workers.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because it was the report in which parliament gave its consent to the european globalisation adjustment fund to help the workers in charleroi, belgium, who had been made redundant, to undergo retraining. the workers at carsid sa (carsid) were made redundant as a result of the major structural changes in the world trade system caused by globalisation and the rapidly decreasing market share of the union continuous casting steel industry on a global scale, as well as the continuously decreasing production of cast steel in the union. this is related to the decreased demand for steel in the automotive and construction sectors. the redundancies at carsid are expected to significantly increase unemployment in the charleroi area (a former coal and steel-producing area with a high dependence on traditional heavy industry for employment), which already has a high proportion of long-term job seekers and low-skilled workers. the commission notes that the measure was granted by the region to the region of charleroi, which is the largest private investor in the region.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because it was the report in which parliament gave its consent to the european globalisation adjustment fund providing aid to workers made redundant by the french car manufacturer peugeot citroën automobiles. a company producing motor vehicles, trailers and semi-trailers has made 6 120 redundancies. the main redundancies were in the île-de-france (one plant) and brittany (renault plant) regions. during the reference period from 1 october 2013 to 31 january 2014, 2 357 workers are to be supported under measures co-financed by the egf. the parliament found that the redundancies of 6 120 workers would lead to an even greater increase in unemployment in the regions of île-de-france and brittany, where the two plants were located, since one was the eighth largest employer and the redundancies reduced employment in the region by 13,6%. it also noted that global trends in the automotive industry in western europe were of great concern, as it was estimated that while global vehicle production increased by 44% between 2000 and 2012, production in western europe decreased by 25% over the same period. in addition, production in third countries (south korea, china, turkey, indonesia, iran, malaysia, thailand and south america) has increased significantly and now accounts for 47% of the world production of vehicles (compared to 15% in 2000).
the rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on foreign affairs. - first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur for her efforts to reach a compromise with the council on the budget for the coming year. as rapporteur for the afet committee, i cannot agree with the council that the so-called global european budget should be cut at a time when europe and the world are facing the enormous challenges of the ebola virus, with military threats to international peace and stability. the council's reduced resources must therefore not only be rebuilt but also increased in priority areas, i.e. additional funding must be devoted to strengthening the european neighbourhood policy so that the european union can properly implement its commitments in both the eastern and southern regions. insufficient funding for humanitarian aid is hampering the smooth implementation of this policy and undermining the prestige of the european union and its ability to respond to humanitarian crises. we want to see adequate funding in next year's budget for both the middle east peace process and the palestinian settlement of the crises in iraq, syria and gaza.
rapporteur. - first of all, let me thank all of you who supported ukraine during our meetings in the committee on international trade and here in plenary. i am pleased we have a broad and firm understanding that europe has to stand by ukraine by granting the unilateral extension of the autonomous trade measures (atms). as we speak, ukraine continues to struggle on all fronts at the same time. the ceasefire is not being respected; ukraine is continuing to defend its territorial integrity against attacks from outside; it faces enormous economic and financial difficulties; and it has to undergo deep internal reforms. europe has made a commitment to help ukraine – and with today’s decision we will turn our words into deeds. this should help ukraine to withstand the pressure from russia, which is willing to obstruct the implementation of the association agreement between the eu and ukraine and to interfere in our bilateral relations and sovereign decisions. there was a time in history when europe abandoned one eastern european country: 75 years ago poland was left on its own against aggressors, despite previous statements offering great support. we all know what happened later. what could have been stopped at poland’s borders finally engulfed the whole world. ukraine is today’s front, and strong statements and words of support are simply not enough. the extension of the regulation is part of the eu commitment that was made at the same time as it was decided to postpone implementation of the deep and comprehensive free trade agreement (dcfta) for 15 months – in the hope of peace. the ukrainian side favours the atms and says that they have helped to increase ukraine’s exports to the eu and, indeed, to compensate for the fall in exports to countries in the customs union. the atms provide a much-needed opportunity for ukrainian producers and businesses to divert their exports away from the increasingly restrictive russian market, and also an incentive to bringing their operations and standards more into line with those of the eu. i would note too that member states have already supported the extension of the regulation, so there is every chance of ensuring that it will remain in effect without any break. taking into account the call from some colleagues for close monitoring of the implementation of the atms and for more reassurance on deadlines, i will urge the commission to continue to monitor the effects closely. these atms have been in place since april 2014, with parliament’s approval, and we know exactly what they mean in terms of entitlements. all the relevant calculations have been done. moreover, as parliament ratified the association agreement last month it was expected to come into full force immediately, meaning that the tariff agreement would have been in place since last month. given the current situation, our timely decision will prove that the european parliament can act swiftly and decisively. it will also be proof of our political will and recognition of our moral obligation: we are ready to help the ukrainians and we are not leaving them alone. colleagues, i count on your firm support for this decision.
member of the commission. - madam president, honourable members of the european parliament, at parliament’s plenary session of 16 september, commissioner de gucht explained in detail the content and context of the outcome of the trilateral consultations between ukraine, russia and the eu on 12 september. the commission agreed, as part of the outcome, to propose to the council to delay the provisional application of the trade title of the eu association agreement with ukraine until 31 december 2015, and this in the event that ukraine ratified the association agreement. the proposal by the commission for such a delay was based on a clear request from ukraine to take an initiative that would allow ratification of the association agreements to go ahead while leaving more time to discuss ways of addressing russian concerns arising from the implementation of the dcfta. this outcome must be seen in the bigger political context. it is part and parcel of a comprehensive peace process in ukraine and secures a commitment from russia to maintain its preferential trade regime with ukraine. four days later, on 16 september, ukraine went ahead with the ratification of the eu-ukraine association agreement, which was endorsed simultaneously by the european parliament here in strasbourg giving its consent. many of you, honourable members, expressed satisfaction when the association agreement was ratified. it was truly historic, as it was the first time in the eu’s history that such a simultaneous vote had taken place. as part of the 12 september outcome, the commission also agreed to submit a proposal to extend, until the end of 2015, the autonomous trade preferences currently granted to ukraine, as they will otherwise cease to apply as of 1 november. let me recall the basic elements of these autonomous trade preferences. the unilateral market access granted to ukraine corresponds to the first year of application of the schedule of concessions negotiated under the dcfta. the current proposal simply extends the duration of those autonomous preferences by 15 additional months, thus maintaining the same preferences. suspended duties would present an amount of up to nearly eur 500 million. preferences are granted to ukraine subject to its effective cooperation in customs matters and require ukraine not to change in any way its tariffs towards the eu. in addition, safeguard controls are in place to prevent market-distorting surges impacting adversely on european companies and industry, including the agriculture sector. eu phytosanitary rules remain fully applicable to ukrainian products. in order to address concerns expressed by parliament, the extension of the autonomous trade preferences is subject to ukraine’s respect for the essential elements of the association agreement. most importantly from an economic point of view, the autonomous trade preferences have a very limited impact on the eu markets, and yet at the same time they represent a gesture of tangible economic and political support to ukraine in a difficult situation, helping to address ukraine’s difficult economic, political, security and territorial challenges. i would like to thank parliament for the efforts already made to pave the way for a swift conclusion of the legislative procedure for this file in order to ensure that trade flows are not disrupted. parliament is therefore asked to endorse the commission’s proposal so that these important preferences for ukraine continue to apply after 1 november.
for the verts/ale group although it is late, i think the issue is important enough for europe and ukraine. the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the eu's 'sustainable development goals' and to provide a report on the implementation of the 'sustainable development goals' and the 'sustainable development goals'. today, it is only regrettable that, under pressure from russia, ukraine was forced to ask for a delay in the full and complete application of the fta. i therefore think that it is necessary to adopt the resolution which has been tabled. we can't put it off. we must continue to support ukraine's economy, help it to strengthen internally and ensure its stability. we must send a clear signal to the people of ukraine, as well as to business, that we support ukraine's economy and its integration into the european union processes. by supporting the commission's proposal, we will demonstrate that the european union is committed to its partners in the eastern neighbourhood and is able to find the right response to the challenges, while demonstrating that it is committed to its values.
rapporteur. - madam president, i would like to thank all my colleagues who participated in the debate. it clearly sends a very strong message to our ukrainian friends that all the main groups in parliament support the decision. i would like to make a few points. regarding certain deadlines, i am sure that, in cooperation with the commission, we can sort these things out. regarding russia, i have a huge question: why do we want to involve a third country in this type of decision? to me it is clear that the euromaidan people made a decision when they protested against the regime. they made a decision to be part of europe and we have to respond to that, without involving any third parties, whether russia or any other country. i strongly believe that on thursday we will support this decision, and i call on all those members who are still in doubt to support the decision without the amendments.
in writing. – i want to express my strong support for the reduction or elimination of customs duties through autonomous trade measures (atms) on goods originating in ukraine. i believe that it is time to unite and to show our respect for the pro-european choice made by the ukrainian people. i see the extension of atms as one of the ways to stabilise the countryʼs economy and politics. it would not only help ukrainian businesses re-orientate from the russian to the european market but would also help adapt their functioning and standards to eu ones, which will help in preparing for the full implementation of the dcfta from january 2016. ukrainian exports to the eu increased by 25 % in the first half of 2014 and will keep increasing if we open our market while ukraine respects our sanitary and phytosanitary standards.
despite the differences of opinion on this commission, i would like to congratulate the new commission and wish it a good day's work. i think that the commission will be confirmed and the new commissioners will be able to start work as soon as possible, because time and, what is particularly important, problems are not waiting. the commission must work as one well-coordinated instrument, as one team, and pursue the common objective of bringing the european commission's decisions and all the activities of the european union closer to the expectations of citizens in all the countries of the european union, including lithuania. i remember juncker saying: 'we had to fix a burning plane in flight, so sometimes we had to burn our fingers.' i hope that those finger burns are not a hindrance, but an incentive for future success. it is now essential that the new commission focuses on investments in job creation, poverty reduction programmes and support for small and medium-sized enterprises. the european union should make more progress and move towards sustainable economic growth, job creation and poverty reduction. another important objective is a unified approach to problems, especially in the areas of a unified energy and foreign policy. the european union's institutions and countries must, as far as possible, adopt a common position, because only in this way can we achieve the desired result. i am particularly pleased to welcome lithuania's newly appointed commissioner vytenis povilas andriukaitis and wish him well in his work for the european union and lithuania.
in writing. i congratulate mr juncker on presenting the new commission to us in the european parliament after lengthy hearings and intensive negotiations with the commissioners-designate. it is very important that the commission starts work on 1 november this year, because europe cannot wait. millions of people who are still suffering from unemployment today cannot wait. youth, whose unemployment rates are still at record highs in some member states today, cannot wait. and finally, people trapped in poverty by the financial and economic crisis can't wait either. so let's get to work. we social democrats have confidence in your promise to maintain the social direction of the european economic recovery. we believe that the economic recovery will be sustainable and that the new jobs created will be secure. to fight poverty, especially among children and the elderly. that we do not allow the impoverishment of the working class to take hold when even the working people in our countries cannot survive. to combat energy poverty by increasing energy independence from unpredictable large neighbors. this is particularly relevant for the baltic states. i am particularly pleased with your promise to treat all member states equally and fairly. i hope that this promise will also find an echo in agricultural policy, where the baltic countries are still discriminated against today because they receive the lowest direct payments in the european union. the commission's new term will certainly be challenging, so i wish you all the best and look forward to the start of our cooperation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the commission because i believe that we share the same values and will work closely together towards greater european union. this commission is crucial for the union. it is important that every commissioner works hard to ensure the best results and to lead europe out of crisis.
in writing. i voted against because the european commission was not set up in accordance with all the principles of democracy and optimal choice. it should be noted that there are a number of commissioners who have managed to impress parliament with their knowledge and competence. the candidates from lithuania, ireland and romania are well regarded. the decision by mr juncker to reorganise the structure of the european commission is also to be welcomed. j.-c. juncker heard the concerns of meps and referred the pharmaceutical issue to the commissioner for health. he also expressed the view that he would seek to review the framework of the common agricultural policy in order to maintain agricultural competitiveness throughout europe. we hope that it will. however, there are members of the commission who may have conflicts of interest. some are appointed to positions of responsibility solely because of their political affiliation. decisions based on party agreements rather than on competences can cast a shadow over the whole commission and weaken it in the future. at the same time, europe needs an effective and strong european commission, ready to respond to daily challenges and take the necessary decisions today.
in writing. i have endorsed this document, which is the european parliament's decision to increase the amounts allocated to the main programmes of the europe 2020 strategy, to investments in innovation and research to promote growth, competitiveness and employment, to horizon 2020, erasmus+ and others. the eu is contributing to the creation of innovative and prosperous economies across the continent, and is continuing to increase its support for programmes such as neighbourhood policy, development and humanitarian aid programmes that ensure the implementation of the union's external policy agenda. i fully agree with the need to ensure continued support for the countries of the eastern neighbourhood, which are under pressure from undemocratic forces and seek stable democratic governance. i therefore agree that the council must restore the reduced amounts of the support lines by keeping the amounts in the draft budget, because a safe, stable, democratic eu neighbourhood, especially the eastern neighbourhood, is of strategic importance to us.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because it gives parliament its support for the amendments to the eu-korea free trade agreement needed to take account of the accession of croatia to the european union. this part of the agreement, which was also approved by the european parliament today, concerns the marking of origin. the provisions of the agreement will apply to goods exported from korea to croatia or from croatia to korea which comply with the provisions of the protocol on rules of origin to the agreement and which were on their way to or were temporarily stored in a customs warehouse in korea or croatia on 1 july 2013 or on a ship bound for korea or croatia on 1 july 2013. in your zone.
in writing. unemployment remains high in the european union, especially among young people. i would therefore urge the member states to implement the youth employment initiative as soon as possible, which should now be one of the top priorities in all countries, in order to help young people get a job, especially their first job. in addition, the youth employment initiative should be considered as an incentive for all member states to use the european social fund (esf) to finance broader projects related to youth, and in particular poverty and social inclusion. the economic and financial crisis, as a result of austerity measures in the member states, has led to a significant increase in poverty in europe, and continues to do so, in particular child poverty. we also need to focus on women's poverty, as women currently make up the largest proportion of those on the lowest incomes. the commission and the member states should therefore ensure in their policy programmes that all people have the necessary and adequate social protection, access to health and social services, increased labour market inclusion of vulnerable groups, reduction of poverty at work, promotion of gender equality, taking into account the recommendations made by the ep. it is also necessary to promote health and safety at work, strengthen the rights of workers with non-standard employment contracts and provide for greater social protection for the self-employed.
in writing. - i voted in favour of implementation of the 2014 priorities of the european semester because this is a helpful tool for the eu to provide input into national economic decision-making. i especially see as a good sign the reduction of the tax wedge on labour and improving business and innovation environment. as many of these recommendations are never implemented by member states, i strongly support the explanation of reasons for non-compliance. finally, we have to be clear that injection of eu funding will not help member states to exit the crisis – recovery can only be reached if we move towards future-orientated policies.
in writing. today we voted not only on the european semester for the coordination of economic policies, but also on the composition and political programme of the european commission under jean-claude juncker. one aspect commitment to increase eu investment by €300 billion, thus contributing to a faster recovery of the european economy very good news from the new commission. on the other hand, member states' economies are growing at a very disproportionate rate, and unemployment remains high, especially among young people. the european semester represents the commitment of member states to economic solidarity, and therefore all member states have a responsibility proportionate to the respective contributions of the member states to the overall economic performance of the eu. i believe that greater coordination of economic policies requires the creation of favourable conditions for economic growth in the member states, the exchange of good practices in reducing youth unemployment, which some member states have done better than others, and increased investment in innovation and research, especially in the long term.
the question asked when the blue card is raised. in fact, there are quite a few fires outside europe today that are giving us no peace, but so far, thank god, we have no major problems inside europe. today, europe ensures its security in cooperation with the nato system. do you think that in the future we should improve our cooperation with nato, or should europe develop its own security system and, say, ensure security within europe and at the same time help ensure security in the world?
madam president, this is a very sad moment for the country’s remaining democracy; it is a shameful part of the kremlin’s policy and a grave reminder of the past history of europe. although we speak about one non-governmental organisation in russia, the meaning is much broader. our words reflect the deteriorating situation of political and civil rights in russia. sixty years ago, many in europe were praising stalin as a great leader. now we hear, even in this house, many praising putin as a great leader. time will show, and i am sure that time will come very quickly. colleagues, we have all been shocked by pictures of burning books in crimea. those books were declared dangerous to the official policy line. colleagues, the 1930s are back to europe. totalitarianism is banging on europe’s doors. let us not be blind and deaf.
rapporteur. - madam president, the main thing that has to be said here is please do not be fooled by madam le pen and her constant ploy to destroy our reputation and that of the ep and the eu in general. this vote today proves that the eu can act swiftly and decisively. it has been made very clear to ukrainians that we stand behind them and we understand the importance of this vote today. i call on colleagues to support the report. ukraine needs us now. (loud applause)
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because it supports the commission's proposal to extend the provisional measures for the reduction or elimination of customs duties on goods originating in ukraine until the date of entry into force of the eu-ukraine association agreement. this step is necessary as the planned entry into force of the said agreement on 1 november 2014 will not take place due to the joint decision of the eu ministers, adopted on 12 september 2014 during the trilateral consultations, to postpone the entry into force of the association agreement until 31 december 2015 and to continue to apply the eu's autonomous trade measures beneficial to ukraine during this period.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the reduction or elimination of customs duties on goods originating in ukraine, because i support a reorientation of ukrainian businesses from the russian to the european market. i see this as an opportunity to help stabilise the economy and politics in ukraine while, at the same time, showing our respect and support for the european choice made by its people.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because it confirms that the office of the european regulators for electronic communications has implemented its budget for 2012. in its discharge for the 2012 budget, parliament also commented on the future of more transparent budget management in terms of the legality and regularity of operations, procurement and recruitment procedures, the prevention and management of conflicts of interest and internal audit.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, the berlin wall was demolished 25 years ago. it seemed that this was the end of the cold war and the victory of democracy, the free and united world. it seemed that not only the wall but also cold war ideology, flushed with the blood of innocent people, collapsed. yet 25 years after the fall of the berlin wall i ask myself and all of us: can we really say that the cold war as a political concept belongs to the dump of history? what does the russian president, vladimir putin, mean by saying that the break-up of the ussr was the greatest geopolitical tragedy of the 20th century? what does the military occupation of sovereign territories of georgia and ukraine mean? are they not attempts to restore the great russia and the soviet union? does that not look like building a new wall between the west and russia? let us celebrate the historical events in berlin that we witnessed 25 years ago, but do not let anyone build the new walls of a cold war today. that is our duty and responsibility as politicians.
in writing. tax avoidance schemes set up in some eu countries cast a shadow over the community and the european institutions as a whole. the president of the european commission must therefore ensure that the necessary draft legislation is submitted to the european parliament's committees as soon as possible to prevent further tax manipulation. even if these proposals are not perfect, we cannot delay the process and start to consider substantially new proposals this year. today, in the face of the ongoing economic crisis, it is essential to restore citizens' confidence in europe. it is therefore necessary to take all possible steps to dismantle tax haven systems in individual member states. it is necessary to examine the tax systems in each country, to establish a public register to identify the uncertain beneficiaries and to prevent money laundering, and finally to publicly identify certain countries and pressure them not to block decisions in the council of europe that could contribute to limiting tax avoidance.
in writing. i would like to draw attention to the court's balanced 2013 annual report, which clearly sets out the problems faced by member states in allocating eu funds and provides recommendations on how to ensure better use of these funds. i commend the court for its principled stance to improve the accounting of eu funds and to reduce the rate of payment errors, which remains very high at 4.7%. the main problem remains that member states provide inaccurate and incomplete information on the use of eu funds. in the new funding period, member states must be obliged to provide better quality information both on the control of the use of eu funds and on the results achieved. as for the european commission, it is unacceptable that it has ignored the recommendations of the court of auditors for years. even about 20% of all recommendations are not fully implemented. the commission should monitor eu funds more closely and ensure better application of eu financial rules.
in writing. i thank the president of the european court of auditors for presenting the 2013 annual report. in this report, the court of auditors assessed that the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) had been very effective in enabling redundant workers to re-enter the labour market as quickly as possible during this period. the court also concluded that, where the fund was used to co-finance services that were not normally available in the member states, such as training for redundant workers, a great deal of help was given to our people. in the light of this report, the commission notes that the support provided by the egf should be seen as financing a set of interrelated instruments which, taken as a whole, contribute to the successful implementation of the operations financed. indeed, the egf supports workers by providing a range of support, including benefits, to ensure that workers have sufficient income during the period of application of the incentives, while allowing them to benefit from the various instruments financed, such as training programmes. lithuania has successfully used the european globalisation adjustment fund on several occasions, for example, alytaus tekstilė, ab snaigė, and financial assistance has also been provided to redundant workers in the construction, furniture and clothing sectors. together with state funding, the fund helps them to change their qualifications, set up a business or find a new job.
the question asked when the blue card is raised. indeed, the security of europe today depends on nato's position, on nato's action. turkey is a nato country. turkey does not respect international law. shouldn't she be subject to nato sanctions? what do you think?
rapporteur. - mr president, mr corman, speaker of the parliament of moldova, ladies and gentlemen, it is indeed my great honour and pleasure to hereby bring to the attention of the european parliament, and ask for its consent to ratify, the association agreement between the european union and the republic of moldova. today we are embarking on a new european future for moldova and its people, the future that has actually always been destined for moldova. there is no doubt that moldova is a european country and a part of european culture. it makes me extremely happy to be in a position to say that moldova fully deserves this historic shift. today’s ratification is the culmination of the work started by moldova and the european union nearly ten years ago with the initiation of the eu-moldova action plan. however at that time the implementation of this plan did not look very bright and promising in moldova’s case. five years ago the eastern partnership was launched by the eu and its partners, and even at that time moldova’s record was considered to be rather lagging behind. i am particularly proud to be able to say that now moldova stands as a front runner among our european partners and as an example of very well drafted and implemented political and socio-economic reforms. this is even more impressive when we know that this has been accomplished in only the last few years, thanks to the political determination of the moldovan government. certainly any government needs the trust and support of its own people. it is therefore quite symbolic that our ratification today comes just a few weeks ahead of the general elections in moldova. we will be looking very closely at these elections, and we call on the moldovan authorities to ensure that the upcoming electoral process takes place according to the highest european standards. we all hope that the choice of the moldovan people will be one that leads to the further building of a free society and a market-based economy. by implementing the european-moldovan association agreement, this part of europe will be more stable and prosperous. in principle this has to be the ultimate goal and in the interest of everyone in the region. it is to my deep regret, however, that this is not a strategy shared by everyone. just as we state in the accompanying resolution – which has been adopted by the committee on foreign affairs and for which i also ask the consent of the european parliament today – we are concerned about russia’s actions aimed at undermining the association process of the eu’s eastern partnership. we once again reiterate our conviction that the association process is not a threat to russia’s political and economic interest, and it is to be truly regretted that the russian leadership wishes to regard it as such. as we all know, the association agreement is an extremely complex document that brings responsibilities for both sides. in other words, it is equally the obligation of the european union to assist moldova in fighting corruption, fostering an independent judiciary, strengthening media freedom, protecting all minorities, and doing everything needed so that the moldovan people are able to see the benefits of their european choice, such as new jobs created or the increased trade preferences that are already being afforded to moldova as countermeasures to the use of the trade embargo by russia. trade volumes between the european union and moldova have risen by 33% in the last five or six years and that is already a real example of the benefit to people. the eu-moldovan association agenda, if duly implemented, will open up new possibilities and is very encouraging to all of us. in conclusion, allow me to sincerely thank my colleagues in this house for their kind – and sometimes rather intense – cooperation and for being the real partners in the preparation of this report. i look forward to the discussion and today’s positive vote. (applause)
today is a very important day for moldova and for the european union as a whole. by ratifying this treaty, we are sending a very clear signal to all the eastern partnership countries that the european union is firmly committed to and will continue to honour its commitments towards these countries and to continue signing association agreements despite the current rather difficult situation with russia. agreement with moldova first after the signing of the agreement with ukraine. this shows that the eastern partnership countries, despite the difficult situation and the economic and political pressure from russia, are choosing for themselves a european path that is currently much more difficult but more economically and politically stable in the long term. i am confident that this treaty will be mutually beneficial and will pave the way for fundamental changes in moldova, strengthening democracy and civil society, ensuring more sustainable economic and social development and a better life for the moldovan people. i once again welcome the rapporteur and moldova's choice to pursue the path of peace and european integration.
rapporteur. - mr president, today’s debate is just more proof that we are about to take the right decision. the european parliament’s vote is about the free choice of moldova towards its future. it is a confirmation of a commitment for further political and economic reforms. it is a sign of european solidarity with the people of moldova. by our vote, we will embark with moldova on the european path of cooperation, bilateral debate and mutual support. the association-based partnership between the european union and moldova is not against any third party. we should not be a hostage to the past. along with many central and eastern european countries, moldova was a victim of the molotov-ribbentrop pact. today we are witnessing the political funeral of the molotov-ribbentrop pact. if you like, we are destroying one of the last sections of the berlin wall and authoritarian history. that is why we are opening new political horizons for moldova. today we are witnessing once again how the well-designed eastern partnership policy delivers excellent results for the european continent. it means stability and security for moldova, new possibilities and a better future for the moldovan people. that is what our ratification of the association agreement between the european union and moldova is about. i would like to thank all colleagues for their cooperation and an excellent debate. i hope for an excellent vote. (applause)
in writing. this agreement will allow moldova to implement deep reforms and will promote all-round development. moldova's progress in implementing european reforms is undeniable, for example, moldova is the first eastern partner to achieve visa-free travel with the eu. in the current geopolitical context, especially with regard to the situation in ukraine, a clear signal from the european union is needed that moldova's pro-european path is supported and supported by the eu as a whole. the bilateral opening of markets to the movement of goods and services will increase moldovan exports to the eu by 16% and imports from the eu by 8%, boosting annual economic growth gdp growth is expected to be around 5,4%. the moldovan agricultural sector alone will be able to save eur 46 million in customs duties. it will open up new opportunities for people, civil society, business and the modernisation of the economy in general. in addition to the economic benefits of meeting our mutual commitments, we will be able to work together towards common goals in the areas of energy, regional stability and prosperity. i would like to see moldova continue to implement the necessary reforms, and at the same time urge that greater attention be paid to public awareness and that the eu institutions and the eu member states do their utmost to provide moldova with all the necessary technical and financial assistance. at the same time, the eu must be prepared to respond appropriately to the likely russian economic and political pressure on moldova for its free and independent choice to become an integral part of the european cultural, economic and political fabric.
in writing. i agree with the report and the conclusions of the legal affairs committee not to waive the parliamentary immunity of ms gomes. the european parliament has a special role to play. it reflects the essential principles of modern democracy and must ensure the free and open development of parliamentary will. the member of the european parliament is directly elected. in the performance of his duties, he shall be guided by the will, the interests and the conscience of his constituents. freedom of speech and expression shall not be restricted, in particular where this is connected with the duties of a member of the european parliament. no member of the european parliament may be punished or prosecuted for the performance of his duties. the corresponding legal liability should only apply where the acts are harmful to the interests of individuals, society or the state.
in writing. i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims at mobilising the egf for ireland to support redundancies in the company andersen ireland limited as a result of the major structural changes in the world trade system brought about by globalisation, reintegration into the labour market. the company is active in the production of jewellery and jewellery products. the eu jewellery market has been dominated by imports from non-eu countries for the past five years. the volume of all eu producers decreased due to the impact of the global economic and financial crisis of 2008/2009. the package of services supported by the egf for redundant workers will include consultancy, advice, language courses, entrepreneurship training, standardised courses and training programmes, entrepreneurship grants, etc. i approve the mobilisation of eur 1 501 200 to support the reintegration into the labour market of 276 workers made redundant.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because it endorses the granting of support from the european globalisation adjustment fund to workers made redundant during the reference period from 21 october 2013 to 21 february 2014 by the company andersen ireland limited, engaged in the manufacture of jewellery, jewellery, jewellery and similar articles. 171 employees were dismissed. this is the first application for financial assistance from the egf concerning redundancies in the jewellery, jewellery and related products sector, a sector which is experiencing difficulties due to the growth of online trade and which could therefore be further weakened. these redundancies will further worsen the unemployment situation in the region, as andersen ireland limited is a very important employer in this predominantly agricultural region, where the unemployment rate (39,3%) was already twice the national average (19%).
in writing. - i voted in favour because i agree that it is necessary to provide support to companies whose redundancies would have a significant impact on employment in the region and on the local and regional economy. however, it should be stressed that the globalisation adjustment fund should be used for a wider range of enterprises, especially in small countries where large enterprises are not common. more attention should also be paid to enterprises employing people with social support, disabilities, especially young people.
in writing. - i support this benefit for people who lost their jobs at this company. it is very important that these people reintegrate into the labour market and are able to provide for themselves and their families, but i would like to highlight a few important aspects. these people lost their jobs because their products were uncompetitive and were being pushed out of the market by products from third countries which do not share the same values as the countries of the european union. i think that the institutions of the european union could do more to work and take action to avoid such consequences in the future. and the money we're giving away to people who are affected by these processes could be invested in business infrastructure.
in writing. i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims at mobilising the egf for the needs of greece in order to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant in the retail company sprider stores . the greek economy has been in deep recession for six consecutive years. since 2008, greek gdp has decreased by 25,7%, public consumption by 21%, private consumption by 32,3% and unemployment by 20,6%. since 2008, thousands of companies have suspended operations, closed down and laid off their employees. the opening of 'sprider stores' in all regions of greece has led to redundancies throughout the country and will further increase the unemployment rate. the package of services supported by the egf for redundant workers will include consultancy, advice, language courses, entrepreneurship training, standardised courses and training programmes, entrepreneurship grants, etc. i approve the mobilisation of eur 7 290 900 to support the reintegration into the labour market of 1 311 redundant workers.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because it supports the granting of support from the european globalisation adjustment fund following the dismissal of 761 workers at sprider stores s.a. (retail clothing and textiles) in greece. the commission has examined the events that led to the redundancies as a result of the decline in household disposable income due to the increased tax burden, the decline in wages (private and public) and the increase in unemployment, the consequent sharp decline in purchasing power and the drastic reduction in lending to companies and individuals by the greek banks due to the cash shortage linked to the economic crisis.
in writing. i voted in favour of this proposal for several reasons. in particular, it is important to ensure that people who have lost their jobs are able to recover, receive stable income and contribute to public finances, but it is also important to ensure that the greek economy is brought to a halt. i think that the action programme for business start-up support is a good way to revive the greek economy, but i would like to stress that a well-developed business infrastructure would bring even more benefits in this case.
in writing. i support the ratification of the eu-moldova association agreement. the agreement provides for the eu to completely eliminate all import duties and prohibit exports of all goods. only certain agricultural commodities (mainly products of animal origin, sugar and cereals) which are considered sensitive in the eu will be subject to a trade restriction. it also provides for the immediate abolition of customs duties on imports of most products. for certain sensitive products and commodities (mainly agricultural and textiles/clothing), a gradual liberalisation process (ranging from 3 to 10 years depending on the product) is envisaged. the market for other products is not liberalised and is subject to a tariff quota system (poultry and pigmeat, certain dairy products, processed meat products or sugar and related products). i believe that the free trade area will provide new opportunities for economic growth and will directly benefit moldovan businesses and citizens, while the eu will benefit from smoother trade flows and better conditions for investment in moldova. the agreement with moldova reaffirms the eu's commitment to the eastern partnership countries and the continuation of the process of signing association agreements with these countries.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, as the association agreement and the resulting gradual integration of the republic of moldova into the european union's policies should not abolish the traditional, historical and economic links of the republic of moldova with other countries in the region, but should, on the contrary, allow the country to fully exploit all its potential. the association agreement shall apply to the entire internationally recognised territory of the republic of moldova and shall benefit all of its inhabitants. i would like to stress the need to address the social implications of the relevant reforms in a timely and appropriate manner. it is important that the republic of moldova ensures that the reforms are embedded in the institutional framework. it is also necessary to strengthen the stability, independence and effectiveness of the institutions responsible for ensuring democracy, the rule of law and good governance and to strengthen the system for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms. in addition, a comprehensive public information campaign should be organised on the objectives and content of the association agreement and on the direct tangible benefits to citizens of the implementation of the association agenda.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the conclusion of an association agreement between the european union and the republic of moldova. i have no doubt that eu has to support the wish of people from moldova to go forwards the european future. this time is particularly important as moldova and its neighbouring countries face increasing pressure from russia. the moldavian government and people have put in a lot of effort, implemented the major reforms and now are ready to go for further integration into the eu.
in writing. it is welcome that moldova has made great progress and intends to apply for membership of the european union in 2015. each country has the right to choose its own political path to promote the well-being of its citizens and political stability. no one has the right to pressure or otherwise influence her decision. in this context, it is essential that the country does not fall behind and continues to pursue its objectives in a systematic manner through the necessary reforms. in particular, the country must have an effective system for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms. in addition, the implementation of the principles of democracy and the rule of law and good governance should be strengthened. it is also essential that moldova makes further progress in implementing the energy efficiency action plan and aligns its climate change policy and objectives with eu policy. violence and aggression must be prevented. the crimean scenario cannot be allowed to be repeated in transnistria. delaying the decision could have serious negative consequences. it is therefore essential that the authorities take concrete action to ensure the safety of the people of transnistria and improve their living conditions.
in writing. i voted in favour because i believe that this treaty is an important step forward for the eu. as a member of the eu-moldova parliamentary cooperation committee, i understand the importance of the association agreement. it provides for support for the modernisation of moldovan institutions and economic stimulation. as the experience of other european countries and regions shows, good governance and stable economic growth are essential conditions for peace and stability. the document itself can only be accompanied by a remark that it does not sufficiently emphasise the external causes of moldova's deeply difficult situation the frozen transnistrian conflict, the destructive influence of russia, the fact that most of the industry remains on the side of transnistria. the internal reasons for this lack of good governance, the excessive centralisation, which means that the local government and the autonomous region of gagauzia have very limited powers to deal with local issues related to specific, sometimes specific, needs, are also insufficiently analysed in the document. it is important to add that the treaty is being adopted at a time when europe is pressed by its own problems. the russian embargo, the african swine flu, all hit agriculture hard. so before we expand our markets by helping other countries, we should find solutions to local challenges.
in writing. i'm in favor of this deal. i would like to emphasise my positive assessment of the progress made by the republic of moldova in the area of justice and law enforcement, in particular in the implementation of the human rights action plan and in the fight against corruption. however, i would like to stress that these reforms are only the first step on a difficult path and that such reforms will have to be implemented over a long period of time. it is also important to make every effort to resolve any possible disagreements in the transnistrian region peacefully, through dialogue.
in writing. i support the ratification of the eu-moldova association agreement. the agreement provides for the eu to completely eliminate all import duties and prohibit exports of all goods. only certain agricultural commodities (mainly products of animal origin, sugar and cereals) which are considered sensitive in the eu will be subject to a trade restriction. it also provides for the immediate abolition of customs duties on imports of most products. for certain sensitive products and commodities (mainly agriculture and textiles/clothing), a gradual liberalisation process (ranging from 3 to 10 years depending on the product) is envisaged. the market for other products is not liberalised and is subject to a tariff quota system (poultry and pigmeat, certain dairy products, processed meat products or sugar and related products). i believe that the free trade area will provide new opportunities for economic growth and will directly benefit moldovan businesses and citizens, while the eu will benefit from smoother trade flows and better conditions for investment in moldova. the agreement with moldova reaffirms the eu's commitment to the eastern partnership countries and the continuation of the process of signing association agreements with these countries.
in writing. i voted in favour of this recommendation to approve the association agreement between the european union (eu) and moldova negotiated under the eastern partnership programme. the agreement contains trade provisions which, if adopted together with the eu, will create a full and comprehensive free trade area. a comprehensive and inclusive free trade area will open up new opportunities for trade and economic growth, directly benefiting moldovan businesses and citizens, and the eu will benefit from smoother trade flows and better conditions for investment in moldova. the comprehensive and progressive free trade agreement (cfta) includes several provisions aimed at reforming moldova's trade and trade-related policies in line with and on the basis of the eu acquis. they will allow the economy to modernise, consolidate eu investment in the country and create a better and more predictable political environment. the european parliament's endorsement of this association agreement will give moldova the opportunity to build a prosperous future in europe. the recommendation stresses that the success of an association agreement depends on its thorough and balanced implementation by both partners.
in writing. – i voted for the association agreement between the eu and the european atomic energy community and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of moldova, of the other part. i see this as an official recognition of the implemented reforms and ambitions of moldova. i feel proud of moldovans, who face the increasing pressure from russia and still move towards moldova’s future goal – european union.
in writing. i supported the ep's position in favour of the conclusion of the agreement. at the same time, i hope for swift ratification by the parliaments of the eu member states, for the full operation of the association agreement, including a comprehensive and complete free trade area, and for moldova not to slow down its reforms. the most important thing is that all moldovan citizens should be able to benefit from the agreement as soon as possible.
in writing. i am in favour of an agreement that will benefit both parties. we must help moldova to become a prosperous country. the eu has also been active in the field of human rights, including the fight against corruption and organised crime. it should be noted that the implementation of the provisions of the agreement will lead to the creation of a full and comprehensive free trade area. this will allow the economy to modernise, eu investment to be anchored in the country and a better and more predictable political environment to be created. it should be noted that not only moldova but also the eu have to implement the terms of the agreement in depth and in a balanced manner. otherwise, the objective of this agreement will not be missed.
in writing. i support the calls for all parties to the process to work constructively towards a lasting solution to the conflict and the full implementation of the good friday agreement. the northern ireland peace process has been blocked in recent years by a number of political crises, including threats from groups opposed to the process. it is necessary to promote reconciliation and economic and social development on all sides, thereby strengthening the peace process. to this end, it is important to make good use of the eu regional development fund funding for the peace programme. it is necessary to combat the criminal activities of extremist groups by addressing economic problems such as unemployment and low incomes and living standards. it is important to provide adequate support for the functioning and stability of the democratic institutions in northern ireland.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution against turkish actions creating tensions in the exclusive economic zone of cyprus. i urge turkey to respect the sovereignty of cyprus over its territorial waters. turkey has to act in accordance with international law. a situation like this might have a negative impact on turkey’s accession to eu process.
in writing. – i voted in favour on the motion of resolution on the northern ireland peace process. i believe that all parties have to work constructively towards the implementation of the good friday agreement, which will ensure long-lasting and enduring peace. the european parliament has to stand ready for any support to assist the peace process in northern ireland.
in writing. any action by extremist groups within the eu, as well as along its borders from the north to the south, in its western or eastern neighbourhoods, cannot be tolerated and must be strongly condemned. the internal socio-cultural problems in northern ireland must not be allowed to become a pretext for calling into question the economic and social development of that state, which is essential for strengthening the peace process in the northern region. the eu's significant support for the peace process eur 150 million under the peace programme must be used effectively and contribute to regional stability and community well-being.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution on the northern ireland peace process. this is a very big problem. in particular, it is worrying that a deadlock has been reached in the implementation of the peace process and that the peace process is currently blocked. in addition, there are still significant regional disparities in terms of socioeconomic development. we must therefore be extremely vigilant and cooperate constructively to ensure lasting peace. it is necessary to prevent violence and aggression and to actively combat violent and criminal and anti-human activities by extremist groups. more efforts are needed to promote reconciliation and improve relations between communities. it should be noted that economic and social development is essential to strengthen the peace process. in this context, the eu's contribution from the regional development fund to help address the urgent issues in the border region is to be welcomed.
in writing. i welcome this resolution and will vote in favour of it. the peace process in northern ireland is an example of how decades of division can be overcome and communities brought together. this process shows that we should never stop pursuing peace and that hope is stronger than violence and despair. we must continue to promote and nurture this peace process and send clear signals to all those involved in this process that europe is on their side and will help them in any way possible.
in writing. turkey has issued a statement stating that a large area of cyprus is reserved for seismic research. these seismic surveys should be carried out in the areas allocated by the government of cyprus to the italian company eni for the exploration of potential hydrocarbon deposits on the seabed, but turkey is preventing the company from carrying out these activities. cyprus has the sovereign right to explore natural resources in its exclusive economic zone and i therefore support calls for turkey to respect international law and to withdraw vessels operating in the exclusive economic zone of cyprus. it is important that the european external action service and the commission closely monitor turkey's activities in the exclusive economic zone of cyprus.
in writing. turkey continues to question the legality of the exploration and exploitation of natural resources in the exclusive economic zone of cyprus and impedes the european company's operations. i therefore support the call in the document adopted by parliament today for the sovereign rights of eu member states to be respected in relation to their territorial waters. the sovereign rights of eu member states include the right to conclude bilateral agreements and the right to explore and exploit their natural resources, thus ensuring greater economic prosperity not just in one country or another, but across the region.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. i think that more efforts are needed to achieve a comprehensive solution to the cyprus problem. the republic of cyprus shall enjoy the full and sovereign right to exploit its natural resources. no other country can invade its sovereign rights to territory or waters. in this context, it is necessary to create the conditions necessary for the de-escalation of tensions and the resumption of negotiations. it should be noted that the turkish claims and actions have no legal basis and are in direct violation of international law. turkey's threats and unilateral actions in relation to the exclusive economic zone further exacerbate the conflict and prevent a lasting political solution. furthermore, such actions may adversely affect turkey's relations with the eu.
in writing. i voted in favour because i believe that turkey must respect international agreements and not violate the borders of the member states of the european union. turkey, as a nato member, should strive to set an example in the region. it is also important not to be indifferent to the european union's efforts to normalise relations between turkey and all the eu member states, one of the ways of which is to foster cooperation between them in line with the commitments they have made. i believe that this resolution will be a great tool to encourage turkey to pursue peace in the region.
in writing. i support this resolution and hope that it will help to solve some of the problems it raises. however, i would like to stress that in the long term, the greatest possible integration of the northern and southern regions of cyprus must be pursued, as this is important not only for the integrity and the integrity of the cypriot state relations, but also for the european union's relations with turkey.
in writing. south sudan is one of the most vulnerable countries in the world, with more than 10 000 people killed in the fighting. the peace talks have made little progress, and the fighting between president kiir's forces and the rebels loyal to riek machar is gradually resuming and will intensify if no solution is found. i support calls for the international community to honour its funding commitments to south sudan in response to the deteriorating humanitarian situation. the eu should adapt its development assistance programmes to meet the essential needs of the people of south sudan and support the transition to peace and stability. the capacity of the un mission in south sudan (unmiss) to investigate human rights needs to be strengthened. all parties must participate in the peace negotiations in order to fully implement the ceasefire agreement. i support calls for the eu to continue to provide material and financial assistance to igad (intergovernmental authority on development) and to provide staff to ensure the functioning of the ceasefire monitoring and verification mechanism.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the resolution on humanitarian aid in south sudan as it is our duty to protect human rights and to ensure their dignity. we cannot close our eyes when repeated violence causes deaths and injuries among the civilian population. the european union has to do everything in its power to make sure that people in south sudan are able to return to their deserted farms, reopen markets and rebuild homes.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution expressing concern at the humanitarian situation in south sudan. south sudan the youngest and most vulnerable country in the world, ranking second in the european commission's overall vulnerability and crisis assessment index. the situation in the country is extremely complex, with grave violations of human rights in the context of a state of war, the brutal recruitment of children into the armed forces, and the country at the epicentre of a humanitarian crisis, famine and infectious diseases. it is difficult to identify the culprits in such a situation, but violations of human rights, violence against children, sexual abuse cannot be ignored. the eu's tightening of sanctions, arms embargoes and the activities of the eu special representative are processes that need to be monitored and are likely to contribute, at least in a small way, to the stabilisation of the situation in south sudan in the future.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. first, the country must put an end to hostilities as soon as possible and find political solutions and implement the principle of a democratic rule of law. strengthened control of armed forces is needed to reduce violence and increase compliance with peace agreements. fighting and aggression only exacerbate the conflict and create instability in the region and further deepen the humanitarian crisis in the country. relations between the humanitarian community and all parties to the conflict are also deteriorating. executions and mass killings and attacks must be prevented. it is necessary to review development assistance programmes in the light of the needs of the country and its people and to provide increased support to the country in order to ensure a faster transition to peace and stability. particular attention shall be paid to the most vulnerable. humanitarian and food assistance should be given priority. it is also essential that all parties to the conflict ensure and respect the neutrality, independence and impartiality of humanitarian workers. humanitarian aid shall not be provided to armed groups. it should be noted that humanitarian aid is essential but cannot solve political problems. the government therefore has a special role to play, and it must take immediate and lasting decisions to achieve national reconciliation for the benefit of all south sudanese.
in writing. the resolution, which i fully support, paints a grim picture of reality. the document is accurate, applicable, well-informed and at the same time shocking. the situation is indeed bad, but we cannot give up. europe can make a difference and the european parliament has a duty to show europe the right way to solve this crisis. this document perfectly reflects all that south sudan needs for lasting reconciliation, peace and social and economic development.
today we are going to talk about europe 2020 again, and life will seem to be going its way again, as it has done many times before. the lisbon strategy also addressed the reduction of social exclusion and various measures, but the objectives set were not achieved. poverty and social exclusion are increasingly starving the eyes, and it's not just the blind who can't see it. millions of people in europe live below the poverty line. i believe that the european union should establish common criteria for a minimum income for each person, and that this minimum income should be guaranteed by a special european fund, which the commission could set up. the commission could also take a legislative initiative to establish a minimum wage corresponding to living standards throughout the european union.
achieving the employment targets and reducing poverty and social exclusion by 2020 requires united political will and real cooperation, both between and within member states and between the eu member states and the eu institutions. the slow recovery was undoubtedly affected by the economic and financial crisis, the unprecedented austerity measures that have had a negative impact on social protection systems, the increase in the number of people suffering from poverty and social exclusion, in particular the increase in the number of children living in poverty, and the worsening of working poverty. it is no wonder that in some lands people have chosen to emigrate. i urge member states to implement the youth employment initiative as soon as possible and the review of the eu budget requires more funding for youth employment. strong links between education, the economy and labour market policies are needed. only then will we be able to deliver real results for the citizens of our european union.
in writing. i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims at the ratification of the rail protocol. the railway protocol aims to facilitate the financing of railway rolling stock by creating a particularly strong international guarantee for creditors. this will not only stimulate capital investment in the railway sector but also the creation of a market for mobile rail equipment rental in europe. the railway protocol also establishes a register of international interests relating to railway rolling stock, which will complement the european vehicle identification number system. i believe that the adoption of the protocol will stimulate innovation and investment in the european union's railways and will support the transition to greener and more sustainable modes of transport, namely rail transport.
in writing. i voted in favour of this recommendation to endorse the council decision on the rail protocol. the railway protocol is compatible with european union law and the council has therefore taken advantage of the commission's proposal and decided to exclude provisions in areas where eu legislation itself is considered appropriate. the commission proposal states that the purpose of the rail protocol is to facilitate the financing of high-value railway rolling stock by creating a particularly strong international guarantee for creditors, whether creditors are sellers or institutions that credit such sales. the commission emphasises that this should not only stimulate capital investment in the railway sector but also the creation of a genuine market for the rental of mobile railway equipment in europe. this commission proposal is therefore closely linked to the 4th railway package, one of the objectives of which is to encourage more innovation and investment in the eu railways. the proposal notes that the railway protocol is also compatible with the objective of supporting the transition to greener and more sustainable modes of transport, such as rail.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the convention on international interests in mobile equipment on matters specific to railway rolling stock. i do believe that after this convention comes into force it will be much easier to attract investments into the railway sector. more investments into this area will help to modernise this important industry. the system itself will be more transparent and reliable for the investors.
in writing. i voted in favour of this recommendation, which proposes to approve the protocol, which is beneficial for the european rail industry, banks and governments. i believe that a strong international guarantee would make it easier for creditors to finance very valuable railway rolling stock. the uniform rules on cross-border interest will allow creditors to obtain an international guarantee. they will thus be granted absolute priority over these assets in the international register. it should be noted that this protocol also establishes an international system of unique and unchanging registration of international interests and supplements and supports the european vehicle identification number system. it should be noted that the protocol will benefit not only operators but also society. in addition, capital investment in the railway sector will be encouraged, contributing to the creation of a genuine rental market.
in writing. i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to endorse the hague convention on arbitration for the purposes of the settlement of disputes in the field of justice. this convention on private international law shall apply to agreements on exclusive jurisdiction in civil and commercial matters. these are agreements whereby both parties agree that any dispute between them on a particular issue will be heard in the courts of that state. i agree that the european union should participate in the implementation of this convention, which was signed in 2009. i support the proposals to encourage the us to ratify the convention, as its widespread application would help to ensure greater legal certainty in the international settlement of exclusive jurisdictional agreements, and would thus promote trade between the participating countries.
in writing. i voted in favour of this recommendation to approve the draft council decision excluding from the application of the convention insurance contracts concluded with consumers, thereby preventing consumers from inadvertently objecting to the choice of jurisdiction clause. the declaration annexed to the draft decision formally sets out this exception and preserves the freedom of the main commercial insurance and reinsurance contracts. the hague convention on arbitration agreements is a convention in the field of private international law drawn up by the hague conference on private international law. this convention shall apply to agreements on exclusive jurisdiction in civil and commercial matters. these are agreements whereby both parties agree that any dispute between them on a particular issue will be heard in the courts of that state. the widespread application of this convention would help to ensure greater legal certainty in the form of exclusive jurisdiction agreements at international level, thereby promoting trade between the parties. this convention should therefore be approved.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the hague convention of 30 june 2005 on choice-of-court agreements, because i believe that it will encourage the united states of america to proceed with the ratification. moreover, i believe that eu companies will have more legal certainty when doing business with companies outside the eu. in this way, they can be sure that the judgment given by the chosen court will be recognised and enforced in the countries which applied for it. it will give more clarity and simplification in the business environment.
in writing. i voted in favour of this recommendation, which proposes to approve the convention. i believe that uniform rules on jurisdiction and the recognition and enforcement of foreign judgments in civil and commercial matters will promote closer links in international trade and investment matters and strengthen judicial cooperation in this field. this is particularly important for eu companies trading outside the eu, as legal certainty is an important element in risk assessment. it should be noted that the autonomy of the countries should be guaranteed not only within the eu but also outside the eu, at international level. it is therefore essential to enhance legal certainty for companies trading with third countries. it should be noted that the eu's efforts alone are not sufficient to achieve greater legal certainty in the form of international agreements on exceptional jurisdiction. the united states should be encouraged to ratify this convention. the more countries that are major trading partners of the union ratify this convention, the greater the benefits for business.
in writing. i am voting in favour of eu participation in the hague convention of 30 june 2005 because it gives greater legal clarity to international agreements on the choice of court and at the same time promotes trade between the participating countries and, in particular, helps small and medium-sized businesses feel safer when expanding outside the european union. i also support the exemption from the convention for insurance contracts, as this protects consumers from choosing the court without their knowledge. it is essential that consumers are protected against disadvantages arising from unequal power relations.
in writing. i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims at mobilising the egf for the needs of finland in order to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant by stx finland oy as a result of the major structural changes in the world trade system brought about by globalisation. the company was engaged in the shipping industry. the eu's shipbuilding market share was 5% in the first three quarters of 2013 compared to 13% in 2007. the corresponding combined market share of china, south korea and japan was 86% in the first three quarters of 2013 and 77% in 2007. the package of services for redundant workers will include upskilling-oriented training, employment and business services provided by the service centre, retraining, entrepreneurship promotion, etc. i support the allocation of eur 1 426 800 from the egf to finland's needs to speed up the reintegration into the labour market of 565 redundant workers.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which deals with the application of finland stx rauma to the european globalisation adjustment fund. in view of the major structural changes in the world trade system brought about by globalisation, the commission adopted on 14 october 2014 a proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in finland to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant by stx finland oy in its nace (other transport equipment manufacturing) activity. the aid is necessary because, as the finnish authorities argue, the global shipping industry has changed significantly in recent years and that in this global context the eu's share of the shipbuilding market has decreased. in many asian countries, shipbuilding has become an industry that creates jobs and foreign exchange. due to the global nature of the shipbuilding industry and its impact on employment, it is supported in asian countries. as a result, europe, which has developed a modern shipbuilding industry, has shifted a large part of its market to asian countries with lower labour costs. the finnish authorities state that the unemployment rate in the rauma region will increase by more than 2 percentage points from 11,1% to 13,1% after the closure of stx. in addition, low education and relative age are likely to increase the risk of long-term unemployment.
in writing. – i voted in favour of mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund: application egf/2014/008 fi/stx rauma. i believe that the eu should protect and support its citizens from any crisis. we should provide financial support for people in need and give them a chance to reintegrate themselves into the labour market after they were dismissed because of force majeure.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report. the eu must be proactive and effective in helping member states to address the short-term negative effects of globalisation. this is also a way of showing solidarity with the workers who have been made redundant. it is worth noting that the financial support from the european globalisation adjustment fund is a vital tool that increases the chances of finding a job in sometimes rather difficult circumstances. financial support from stx finland for the redundant employees is therefore necessary. it will provide opportunities for reintegration into future-oriented and sustainable sectors of the economy. it should be noted that support should be given in particular to the implementation of social assistance measures for the most vulnerable and low-skilled workers. on the other hand, in view of the number of applications submitted in the shipbuilding industry, i believe that the shipbuilding industry in different member states could be supported in the preparation of european-wide guidelines.
in writing. i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims at mobilising the egf for the needs of france in order to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant by gad société anonyme simplifiée as a result of the major structural changes in the world trade system brought about by globalisation. the company was engaged in the production of food products. the financial and economic crisis in europe has led to a decline in pork consumption, which in turn has reduced pork production and the productivity of slaughterhouses such as gad. in 2007, the per capita annual consumption of pork was 43 kg, in 2013 it was 39 kg. total revenues fell from eur 495,1 million in 2008 to eur 445,8 million in 2009 and the company did not recover. the tailored services to be provided to redundant workers consist of a single action: the provision of a consultancy and guidance service for redundant workers by a team of consultants. i support the allocation of eur 918 000 from the egf to the needs of france to speed up the reintegration into the labour market of 760 redundant workers.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which concerns the decision to mobilise the egf for the needs of france in order to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant by the gad société anonyme simplifiée, an undertaking active in the economic sector (food production) as a result of the global financial and economic crisis. the french authorities argue that the global financial and economic crisis has led to a decline in pork consumption in europe, which in turn has reduced the production of pork and the productivity of slaughterhouses such as gad. the decline in consumption caused by the global financial and economic crisis is also common to other types of meat, but pig producers have been the most affected, as the price of pig meat has increased faster than that of other meats, in particular beef. in addition, the costs of feeding the pigs are compensated, thus increasing the final price of the pigs, which is ultimately borne by the consumer. with the eu still suffering from the effects of the crisis, consumers were unwilling or unable to buy as much pork as before. the slaughterhouse and meat processing company gad were in a price pressure zone farmers faced the difficulties of rising feed prices and consumers the problems of reduced incomes. this pressure lasted for five years or more and eventually put the company in a very difficult financial situation.
in writing. – i voted in favour of mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund: application egf/2014/005 fr/gad. as i was elected by the nation, marked by longstanding agricultural traditions, i felt the need to vote in favour of supporting the french abattoirs. the issue, which french authorities encountered, is very close to the situation that lithuania experiences at the moment due to the russian embargo.
in writing. it is essential that the european globalisation adjustment fund continues to demonstrate the european union's solidarity with workers during this new programming period. rapid and effective assistance will help to avoid devastating consequences for human lives and the economy. in this context, i support this resolution which proposes to mobilise the egf in order to support the reintegration of workers made redundant in a french slaughterhouse and meat processing plant as a result of the global financial and economic crisis. it is essential that the implementation of the measures envisaged respects the principles of equal treatment and non-discrimination and is directly linked to the provision of services tailored to individual needs. it is worth noting that the egf improves the economic situation of regions by helping workers to re-skill and to acquire a new profession, and by updating and improving their skills in finding a job. it also builds self-esteem and self-confidence. the measures, if properly implemented, therefore have a positive long-term impact.
in writing. i voted in favour of this proposal, which seeks to obtain the opinion of the court of justice on the compatibility of the eu-canada agreement on the processing and transfer of passenger name record (pnr) data by air carriers with eu law. in 2005, the eu concluded an agreement with canada on the processing of passenger name record data. the european legal basis for the transfer of pnr data to the canadian border guard agency ceased to exist on 22 september 2009 when the relevant commission decision expired. as there is currently legal uncertainty as to whether the draft new agreement is compatible with the provisions of the eu treaties and the eu charter of fundamental rights relating to the rights of individuals to the protection of personal data, i support the decision to request the opinion of the court of justice on the compatibility of the agreement with the eu treaties.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the opinion from the court of justice on the compatibility with the treaties of the agreement between the european union and canada on the transfer and processing of passenger name record (pnr) data by air carriers to the canadian border services agency. i voted in favour, because i do agree that the court of justice should express an opinion on the compatibility of the agreement with the treaties regarding pnr data usage. we should not forget that the transfer of pnr data amounts to a violation of eu data protection. i truly believe that all of us should respect the fundamental rights of citizens of the union.
in writing. given the importance of this agreement, it is essential that legal uncertainty be removed. in order to ensure adequate protection of personal data, all doubts as to the compatibility of this agreement with the eu treaties must be removed. the transfer of passenger data shall strictly respect the principles of necessity and proportionality. in particular, confidential data shall be deleted by means of an automatic process for the detection and deletion of confidential data. it is also important to limit the categories of pnr data to be processed and to specify the specific canadian authorities to which pnr data may be transferred. in order to minimise the possibility of access to personal data, it is necessary to provide for a targeted mechanism for the assessment of pnr data against risk criteria. impartial monitoring of compliance with the agreement shall be carried out on a regular basis. the agreement should therefore provide as a matter of urgency that no other canadian authority should have direct access to pnr data and should not be able to obtain it upon request. this will prevent misuse to circumvent the provisions of the agreement and ensure adequate protection of personal data.
in writing. this proposal by the alde group is welcome. it is wise to seek the opinion of the european court of justice on this matter. this is a sensitive issue and its legal basis is confusing. as this agreement with canada is likely to become a model for similar agreements, it is essential that any possible incompatibilities with the eu treaties be resolved before parliament takes a decision. i consider that the wrong legal basis is based on articles 82 (1) (d) and 87 (2) (a) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (police and judicial cooperation) and should be based on article 16 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (data protection). we must ensure that any transfer and processing of personal data is carried out in compliance with the fundamental rights of our citizens as enshrined in the treaties of the european union and the charter of fundamental rights.
in writing. i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to set development policy priorities for the period after 2015. in 2000, the un adopted the millennium declaration and set specific goals to be achieved by 2015. while there are some positive results, such as the halving of extreme poverty and the good results achieved in the fight against malaria and tuberculosis, there is still a need to reduce poverty, increase food security, education, promote gender equality, sustainable energy, sustainable growth, etc. i support the proposal to focus development policy on poverty reduction, the fight against inequality, the protection of human rights and the sustainability of health systems. the year 2015 is a symbolic one, as it marks the completion of the millennium development goals agreed by the united nations in 2000.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because it is necessary to adopt a new development programme for the period after 2015. the eradication of poverty is one of the priorities of this programme and the new programme will therefore address the multiple dimensions of poverty and inequality, which are linked not only to income deprivation but also to high unemployment. secondly, it is essential to ensure human rights and conflict prevention, peacebuilding and the promotion of lasting peace. the eu recognised that sustainable development can only be achieved in the context of peace and security, and that, conversely, without development and poverty, peace cannot be sustainable. it is also important to ensure health care and education. in the new development agenda, the eu should focus on promoting equitable and universal healthcare, ensuring quality costs and access to quality healthcare. it is particularly important that health and education services reach the most vulnerable groups in society. it is also important to give priority to the elimination of all forms of violence against women and girls.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the report on the eu and the global development framework after 2015. mdgs adopted in 2000 have reached a lot of successful goals and made a huge impact on people’s lives. i agree with the human development report 2014 that stresses increasing global challenges due to poverty, human rights violations, corruption, etc. therefore, we need a strong and cohesive eu position as well as all stakeholders united to be able to resist these challenges.
in writing. about 1.5 billion people are affected by poverty, lack of healthcare, education and living standards, and 162 million children are still suffering from malnutrition. the eradication of poverty at international level must therefore be a priority issue on which the eu should express a unified position. it should be underlined that poverty eradication, the fight against inequalities and sustainable development should be the priority development themes for the post-2015 agenda, with human rights at the heart of the agenda. in order to implement this programme, it is necessary to focus on areas such as sustainable economic growth, job creation and the efficient use of resources. i supported the european parliament resolution on the eu and the post-2015 development agenda because the aim of reducing the number of people living at or near the poverty line is important and, with the right measures chosen and based on sound data, is both feasible and achievable.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution. given that the challenges of poverty eradication and sustainable development are of global concern and concern all countries and all people, they must be addressed jointly on a global scale. a strong political commitment and decisive action are needed to ensure a decent standard of living worldwide. in particular, the eu and the global development agenda post-2015 must be based on the principles of human dignity, impartiality, equality and sustainability. it must be a catalyst for change, a new global partnership and a response to a changing world. it should be noted that the programme should provide for the responsibilities of the parties, taking into account the different situations, capacities and levels of development of the parties. i support the proposal to give greater attention to strategies to promote the non-discharge of coal-based compounds. it is essential that all developing countries establish a national minimum social protection and ensure universal access to comprehensive health and education services. the least developed and other vulnerable countries must not be left behind. the commission should continue to work closely with other donors in developing and implementing innovative financial mechanisms.
in writing. i voted in favour because it encourages all eu countries to review their previously set millennium development goals and to set even more ambitious ones. it is particularly important that the document covers the three dimensions of sustainable development - social, economic and environmental. without sustainable action, we will not be able to address the root causes of the world's poverty, violence and discrimination. we cannot remain indifferent when 1.5 billion people are suffering from poverty and multiple deprivations in health, education and living standards. today we are talking about poverty not just in some distant place, but here in europe. more than ever, therefore, a new development agenda must be global and applicable to all countries. i welcome the fact that this document calls for the eu to take action and to indicate what commitments the community is prepared to make and to offer at international level. i think it's time to realize that we can't make a difference unless every country is involved in this process, unless we have continuous funding and consistent policies and clear criteria by which we can measure progress.
in writing. i voted in favour of this document, but i would like to highlight a few key points which i believe are the most important in achieving the objectives set. first, it is the fight against corruption, which like a cancer destroys all the good work that has been done. secondly, we must act as an example to other countries - particularly in the field of environmental protection - to show that development based on clean energy, produced in a sustainable way, is possible.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution, which aims to review the employment and social aspects of the eu 2020 strategy. since the start of the europe 2020 strategy in 2010, the unemployment rate has continued to rise, with 24.6 million unemployed in the eu today. since 2008, the number of people at risk of poverty or social exclusion has increased from 10 million to more than 122.6 million, or one in four. i agree that the role of social protection systems as key instruments for economic and social stability and poverty reduction is not sufficiently taken into account. i support the proposals set out to encourage member states to pursue broader ambitions when they translate eu objectives into their own national objectives. i believe it is necessary to call on the commission and the member states to ensure that employment growth is only achieved by creating new quality jobs in the european economy, and it is also important to create a platform of social partners that brings together the interests of employers and workers.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution because there is still a lot of progress to be made in the member states to achieve the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. it remains to be regretted that in some member states, the growth outlooks and country-specific recommendations are not sufficiently aligned with the employment, poverty reduction and education objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. the role of social protection systems as key instruments for economic and social stability and poverty reduction is not sufficiently taken into account. unemployment remains high, and people often opt for open-ended contracts, fictitious self-employment or low-wage work as a way out. the european parliament therefore calls on the member states to respond as actively as possible to the needs of the labour market, in particular by ensuring strong links between education and work. calls on the commission to ensure that the european social fund and the european structural and investment funds are closely aligned with the policy priorities of the europe 2020 strategy, in order to strengthen the role of these funds in providing financial support for the implementation of the strategy;
in writing. – i voted in favour of the resolution on employment and social aspects of the eu2020 strategy. i strongly support the expressed regrets that current eu policies focus solely on economic growth, which does not necessarily lead to sustainable society. i see an urgent need for member states’ active role implementing eu2020 strategy goals, especially by helping to create quality jobs within the european economy.
in writing. it is recognised that the eu has not achieved the employment and poverty reduction targets set out in the europe 2020 strategy. unemployment rates in some member states continued to rise, reaching an alarming 10.1% in 2014 across the eu28, with particularly worryingly high levels of youth unemployment. measures such as professional mobility, the eures programme in the member states must be easily accessible to all, and a broad information campaign must reach even socially sensitive eu citizens. the introduction and application of new measures may be linked to a mid-term review of the strategy, integrating the specific youth employment objective, as well as public consultation, consultation of civil society on the proper and effective implementation of the europe 2020 strategy, and focus on key employment and social aspects.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution. it is important to note that the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy have not yet been achieved and that stronger measures are needed to close the current gap. social systems are key tools for increasing economic and social stability and reducing poverty. it is therefore essential that employment and social issues are treated on an equal footing with macroeconomic issues. in particular, in pursuit of the poverty reduction objective of the europe 2020 strategy, the commission should, as a matter of urgency, present a proposal for the establishment of a minimum social security, with particular attention to minimum income systems. this would improve living standards and further boost competitiveness, help to ensure greater economic, social and territorial cohesion and help to mitigate the social consequences of the crisis, protect fundamental human rights. it is an urgent stabilisation measure to guarantee a balance between economic and social objectives and to reduce social disparities between the community's population. as unemployment rates continue to rise in some member states and disparities between member states increase, member states need support to carry out the necessary structural reforms, to increase labour market flexibility and to remove administrative and bureaucratic obstacles. in addition, a special role should be given to the multiannual financial framework, which currently provides for insufficient funding to achieve the employment and social objectives of the europe 2020 strategy.
in writing. i voted in favour because i fully agree that current policies remain focused on economic growth alone, without regard to whether that growth benefits all sections of society. the economic crisis, the constant attempts of certain groups to profit at the expense of the common people, have led us to the fact that more than 6 million people live in poverty. obviously, poverty has affected not only those who are unemployed but also a portion of those who are employed. high workloads, demands for free after-hours work, and extremely low wages are just some of the aspects that many workers experience on a daily basis. i fully support the idea put forward in the document that it is necessary to remove the tax burden from the working population and to introduce other forms of sustainable taxation in order to stimulate economic growth and job creation. together, we must review the poverty indicator system and monitor the evolution of poverty levels on an ongoing basis in order to identify and assist those at risk of exclusion.
the question asked when the blue card is raised. i would like to ask you, mr president, if it is not as if everything is standing on its head instead of on its feet. that we negotiate jobs first, then we have a huge bill, then we all suffer, and then we decide how to solve the problem. shouldn't we put everything in place and agree on funding first, and then talk about how we're going to implement those projects?
last week, in my home country of lithuania, a 20-year-old student was raped and brutally murdered, a student who, according to her mother, would not dare to harm a bug. and so one in three women in our developed, democratic europe experiences violence because of her gender. 7 women die every day in europe from violence. can we still ignore the scale of this human rights violation? is that acceptable to us? the answer is absolutely no. that is why we, the members of the european parliament, will never stop calling on the commission to submit a proposal for a european union directive to combat violence against women. i am personally convinced that one measure alone will not eliminate violence against women. we must take coordinated action in all areas: legal, judicial, enforcement, infrastructure, cultural, educational, social. and that's the only way to get results. i also call on the commission to establish a european observatory on violence against women and girls. this could be done not by creating new institutions but by extending the scope of the european institute for gender equality to fulfil this function.
i agree that risk prevention and the promotion of safer and healthier working conditions are of great importance not only for improving the quality of work, working conditions, but also for promoting competitiveness. but i want to emphasize that this is not an automatic work tool or a machine. this new strategy has to be for the person who works hard, works a lot and works more and more as the life span increases. it is therefore necessary to take account of demographic changes in europe, as employers will have to recognise the changes in the workforce and increasingly use older workers. it is therefore necessary to take into account that the health risks of older workers are very different from those of younger workers. therefore, in order to enable people to work longer, occupational health and safety measures need to be adapted to workers of this age. another problem is that the psychosocial risk aspect, i.e. the intimidation of employees, is still not addressed. for example, that they could lose their jobs at any time, because now there's a crisis, because there's a shortage of jobs, because there are hundreds, thousands of people who can replace them. we also underestimate the stress of our workload. and these questions are becoming more and more important, because the work environment is changing dramatically with the introduction of new technologies, materials, work processes, design, and different ways of organising and managing work. not all employees can adapt to new changes at the same pace, and this can have a significant impact on their mental and physical health. thank you very much, and i urge the commission to take all the proposals into account, because it really matters what people's health will be.
indeed, ensuring equal opportunities for all in employment and protecting citizens from discrimination remains a major challenge for member states. the equality directive affects the daily lives of everyone: young people, disabled people, women, the elderly. i would like to emphasise that the demographic changes in europe, as well as the increase in the retirement age, have made age discrimination in employment more and more relevant. therefore, if we are already extending the retirement age, we must also ensure that these people have the opportunity to remain in the labour market as full-fledged employees. secondly, women also face many inequalities in employment, social protection and so on. there are still huge wage differences for the same work, and women are much more likely than men to work in temporary, socially insecure jobs, all of which have a bearing on lower pensions for women and an increasing number of women entering poverty in old age. and thirdly, i want to stress that we are still failing to protect the most vulnerable members of society, the disabled, from discrimination. it is sad to hear that some member states are violating this directive by failing to adapt jobs to disabled people, by failing to provide them with suitable working conditions, by failing to ensure equal opportunities in education and vocational training. i therefore urge the commission not to be indifferent to the most vulnerable groups in our society, because directives should not just sit on the shelves of the institutions. it should become a tool for everyday life in the member states, protecting and improving the lives of all people.
in writing. i congratulate the commission on the presentation of the investment plan. europe needs investment now to ensure long-term and stable prosperity. it is difficult to say anything more positive about the plan presented. it is not balanced in the way it is expected to be, and it is not clear how it plans to raise the eur 315 billion. the so-called innovative financial engineering measures, which are expected to increase the value of eu investment by up to 15 times over 7 years, appear more like speculation in securities in optimistic emerging markets than long-term investment in regional growth. i would also point out that these plans are being announced now that the eu budget does not have the funds to compensate the union's commitments for projects for the period 2007-13. ideas can be drawn from the investment plan prepared by the green paper, which is based on the realistic potential for mobilising public sector funds. we are realistic and therefore do not think that one euro of public spending will attract more than two from the private sector. the impact of the measures we propose will be far more sustainable: a cleaner environment, reduced pollution, a more sustainable and resource-efficient economy. the greens propose a fundamental reorientation of the economy and the promotion of social and environmental innovation, and the creation of an effective energy union independent of the external environment. in this way, the plan will be used to tackle social exclusion, poverty and create decent living conditions for all citizens.
for the efdd group the lima conference should become a stepping stone towards a legally binding, ambitious international agreement in paris in 2015. not only the european union, but the rest of the world needs to start taking global warming seriously, rather than keeping its head in the sand. the risks posed by climate change are very serious and have negative consequences for long-term economic growth and pose a real threat to human existence. the european union's efforts alone are not enough and there is a risk that the safe climate threshold may be exceeded after 2020. it is therefore necessary to agree on global action against climate change after the expiry of the kyoto protocol. a development strategy based on carbon reduction is fully compatible with economic growth. all parties must do their homework and meet the targets set. action plans must be drawn up, setting out specific commitments by states and ensuring clarity and transparency in action at national level. in pursuing ambitious climate change policies at the global level, we need to work together and promote joint action, in particular by governments, business, financial institutions, industry, society and all together to look for all possible sources of funding, because this is of paramount importance.
in writing. i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to take account of the european central bank's recommendation to amend regulation (ec) no 2533/98 to take account of the ecb's new supervisory tasks relating to the prudential policy for the supervision of credit institutions. the proposal provides that the ecb may use confidential statistical information in the performance of its new supervisory tasks. i support the rapporteur's proposal to limit these new powers to allowing only those confidential data to be transmitted which are necessary for the ecb to carry out its new supervisory tasks under the ssm regulation. furthermore, the european system of central banks should allow for the transmission of confidential statistical information to the authorities of the member states and the eu responsible for the stability of financial institutions, markets and infrastructure and to the european stability mechanism in the detail necessary for the performance of their respective tasks. i agree with the rapporteur's proposal that such an important power should be granted by requiring the receiving authorities to take all necessary regulatory, administrative, technical and organisational measures to ensure the protection of the relevant confidential statistical information.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which amends the recommendation of the european central bank (ecb) on statistical information. the proposed amendments to the ecb recommendation provide that the ecb may access confidential statistical information in the performance of new supervisory tasks in a similar way to the national central banks, which are entrusted with specific prudential supervisory functions and which are therefore able to access confidential statistical information for prudential purposes under the current regulation. the european parliament proposes that the new powers be limited to allowing the transmission of confidential data only to those necessary for the ecb to carry out its new supervisory tasks under the regulation on the policy on the supervision of credit institutions. the new powers under that regulation are conferred on the ecb, not on the european system of central banks. the european parliament therefore considers that such an important power to transmit confidential data to certain authorities must be balanced by the requirement that the receiving authorities take all the necessary regulatory, administrative, technical and organisational measures to ensure the appropriate physical and logical protection of confidential statistical information.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the report on the draft council regulation concerning the collection of the statistical information by the european central bank. i believe that the statistical information has to be exchanged within the european system of central banks in order to be able to supervise and to ensure a stable financial sector.
in writing. i think it is important to have clear rules on the information circulating in the european central bank, but even more important to ensure that the countries receiving this information have the appropriate legal framework, technical preparation, administrative and organisational matters in place to ensure the protection of sensitive and confidential information. i believe that these new rules can also help to reduce the administrative burden, as it is envisaged that the same data will only need to be collected once.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which proposes amendments to the council regulation on the powers of the european central bank (ecb) to impose sanctions. the financial crisis has highlighted the need for better regulation and supervision of the eu's financial sector. new rules have been adopted to ensure that all financial entities, products and markets are properly regulated and effectively supervised. financial markets and all relevant users of financial markets need to have confidence that the supervisory authority will be able to take action in the future if banks do not comply with the rules. i agree that the ecb should be given clear and unambiguous powers to impose sanctions if banks do not comply with the rules.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which proposes amendments to the council regulation on the powers of the european central bank (ecb) to impose sanctions. the financial crisis has highlighted the need for better regulation and supervision of the eu's financial sector. new rules have been adopted to ensure that all financial entities, products and markets are properly regulated and effectively supervised. these rules form the framework for all 28 eu member states and are the basis for a well-functioning single market in financial services. it is widely agreed that the crisis was contributed to by a lack of regulatory credibility, as implementation proved to be seriously flawed. traditionally, the financial sector has placed great reliance on market discipline, but transparency is essential for the proper functioning of the market surveillance system. this means not only having the necessary information, but also ensuring that this information reaches the market effectively and is also correctly interpreted by market participants and used in decision-making. the european parliament notes that there is no qualitative impact assessment, which is necessary, and that some of the shortcomings could be effectively addressed by applying the impact assessment methodology. parliament also proposes to improve some of the recommendation's elements and to make the following main changes.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the report on the powers of the european central bank to impose sanctions. after surviving the financial crisis, i see an urgent need for better supervision and regulation of financial sector. giving the power to impose sanctions is one of the ways to ensure that the european rules are respected and followed. as member states are closely related and spill-over effect is mostly unavoidable, we cannot act with an individual mind any more. we have to feel responsibility for each other.
in writing. everyone will benefit from proper supervision of banks in europe and from the knowledge and compliance of all with the rules. of course, it is always best to have goodwill in agreements, but there are sometimes abusive ones, and it is important that the european central bank has the power to punish such institutions. i therefore hope that this instrument will be implemented swiftly and properly. another tool to be looked at in the future is not the sanctioning authorities but the individuals responsible for the decisions taken.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution on climate change, which notes that in order to achieve a global temperature rise of below 20°c, it is essential to use the lima conference to outline the main objectives of an international agreement that can be reached in paris in december 2015. it is important that the eu and its member states keep in mind their commitment to increase contributions to the unece fund, with a target of usd 100 billion per year by 2020. the agreement must provide for clear mitigation, adaptation and implementation measures to halve carbon dioxide emissions by 2050 compared to 1990 levels. the agreement on climate finance, technology transfer and capacity building will be a key element of support to developing countries. it is also important that the international maritime organisation (imo) and the international civil aviation organisation (icao) take action to achieve sufficient results in the fight against the effects of climate change.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution because climate change is an unavoidable and potentially irreversible threat to human health and survival, biodiversity and the planet, and must therefore be addressed by all countries at national, eu and international levels. if we are to achieve the european union's environmental, development, humanitarian and disaster risk reduction, economic, foreign, security and human rights policy objectives, we need concrete and tangible results in tackling climate change. the european parliament hopes that the eu and the member states will play a constructive role at the meeting in lima in order to successfully agree a binding global climate agreement in paris in 2015. we should remember that governments around the world have a shared responsibility, including to future generations, to take the right climate action. the european union should therefore substantially strengthen the eu's climate policy and reach an agreement on binding ambitious targets for emissions reductions, energy efficiency and the use of renewable energy sources by 2030, with the exception of biofuels that are socially and environmentally harmful.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the resolution on the climate change conference in lima, peru. i absolutely agree that governments of the world share a collective responsibility for future generations, therefore they have to take adequate actions. decisions made in lima are extremely important in order to be able to reach climate change goals in paris 2015.
in writing. climate change is a global problem that threatens the stability of the biosphere, communities and societies. scientific evidence shows that climate change is not a myth climate warming is real, and human activities are the main contributors. without specific measures to mitigate climate change, the average temperature is likely to be 5°c higher by the end of the 21st century. it is therefore essential to find international consensus and strengthen measures to reduce global greenhouse gas emissions and to limit global warming to 2°c. research shows that economic growth and the fight against climate change are compatible and can be achieved by countries of all economic capacities. it is important that the paris climate change conference in december 2015 agree on coordinated action on climate change beyond 2020 at international level, in line with the 2°c target and the right to sustainable development.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution. the 20th conference of the parties to the unfccc will be held in lima. this is the final and decisive step towards the paris meeting in 2015. in this context, the main elements of this agreement should be agreed and the draft agreement should be negotiated in lima. we must act quickly to address the risks and ensure that the climate does not warm by more than 2 degrees. not only the eu but also the rest of the world must make commitments to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. it is therefore essential that developing countries are also given the appropriate support to join this global fight. only by working together can we tackle climate change much more effectively and prevent potential threats to the entire world's population.
in writing. - i voted in favour because it is clear to me that tackling climate change is one of the greatest challenges facing the world. it is essential to recognise that change requires the abandonment of old, unreliable technologies, especially coal, and the implementation of effective programmes to reduce consumption. the european union must take all measures to promote the development of renewable energy, thus creating green jobs and added value for people living in the regions. the european union can no longer delay decisions on the phasing out of fossil fuel subsidies. we cannot turn a blind eye to the construction of new nuclear power stations, both in the european union and in its neighbourhood, under the guise of climate change mitigation. we can no longer wait for other countries to set ambitious goals. if we want change, we have to start with ourselves. every person, every member state, has to take action. the european union must make it clear that decisions must be taken now, not before the next un climate change conference in paris.
in writing. the fight against global warming one of the priorities on the european union's agenda. global warming is a huge loss - some regions feel it more, others less, but it is particularly acute in the face of extreme natural events. this resolution is the basis on which we will have to work in lima in december. the lisbon summit is the key moment to make important decisions that will be taken at the paris climate change conference next year.
twenty-five years ago, we made a promise to children to protect them, to fight for their right to grow up healthy and safe, to provide opportunities for learning and development so that they can grow up to be full members of our society. but the latest unicef report gives us shocking numbers - how many children are poor in europe, how many children are poor in the world. i will speak about the european union, the biggest impact on poverty reduction has been the result of this reckless austerity, and above all at the expense of children. so i think we need new tools. for example, the child guarantee initiative, which would allow for specific, financially justified measures to help children in need in our european union. it is also necessary to implement the eu recommendation on investing in children and combating child poverty as quickly and effectively as possible. and here we must first of all talk about helping families with children.
it is a welcome development that the leaders of the world's major powers have gathered in brisbane for a g20 summit to discuss the major issues of our time. it is good that the heads of state have discussed and set out the guidelines for the future on such important issues as global and sustainable economic growth, climate change and the fight against ebola. it should be noted that the participants are quite unanimous in their assessment of the situation in ukraine and the role of russia in it. the fact that russian president vladimir putin attended the meeting, as well as the fact that the heads of many states expressed their views and assessments on the events in ukraine directly to the russian president, is good and we hope that this will help him to understand, help to stabilise the situation in ukraine and find a peaceful and wise solution. although, seeing what is happening today on the lithuanian-russian border, seeing other russian actions, there is more room for doubt than we would like.
in writing. – a functioning digital single market has huge potential for the eu and we have to make it our priority. in order to be able to compete with the us, we have to be more flexible, more innovative and invest more in our cutting-edge technologies. i congratulate mr juncker on his choice to make the digital single market one of the fundamental elements of the new commission. i am especially glad that mr ansip became the vice-president of the commission for the digital single market. estonia has showed the world that a small country can become a worldwide leading example for digital government services. other eu member states have a lot to learn from this example. i am confident that with mr ansip leading we can achieve a lot in the next five years and i see a lot of optimism in the ep.
written. although it seems that there is no need to remind people that everyone has the right to food and proper nutrition, in some parts of the world, this is not only a matter of reminding people, but also of implementing it. and the right to food and nutrition can only be achieved by reducing poverty, by ensuring adequate income for families, by eliminating the great social inequalities. sadly, hunger and malnutrition are particularly common among children in developing countries. as i mentioned, malnutrition in children is associated with malnutrition and family poverty, with exclusion, with poor care and feeding practices, with poor health care. in developing countries, child malnutrition is caused not only by food shortages and inadequate infrastructure, but also by problems of food distribution, inadequate access to food and insufficient purchasing power, especially in the face of high food prices, which are further exacerbated by speculation. the sad reality today is that in some countries we talk about reducing food waste, while in others we count the number of children who are dying of hunger. i would like to urge the commission to take concrete measures to support and help children, pregnant women and breastfeeding mothers in developing countries with food.
in writing. suspected of serious war crimes, v. seselj was released early, although the charges against him include crimes against humanity, incitement to hatred and talk of possible occupation by neighbouring states. in supporting this resolution, i therefore stress that any release of such and similar actors accused of war crimes must be carefully considered and that behaviour and actions directed against their own state, as well as against an eu member state or any member of the international community, must be rigorously assessed in accordance with the highest political, moral and legal standards. in particular, in view of the status of the state of serbia as a candidate for accession to the eu and the obligations incumbent upon it.
in writing. i voted against because you cannot slap two questions on the commission's work and tax evasion scandal. i understand that the scandal that has arisen has disappointed many people and has increased mistrust of the european institutions. but to express a vote of no confidence in a commission that has only just started to work would only add to the instability and confusion. on the other hand, a vote of no confidence does not mean that the commission does not have to take important steps to combat tax evasion. on the contrary, the greens want to give the european commission a chance to regain the trust of citizens and to show that the european commission understands the importance of the problem and is ready for immediate change. if the commission does not act, then it will have no choice but to express its lack of confidence.
in writing. a single resolution board is to be established as an eu agency as from 19 august 2014. the smooth functioning of the board as from 1 january 2015 requires that its financing structures be established by 1 january 2015. i support the regulation on the establishment of the board's financing structure.
in writing. — i express my sincere concern regarding the delay in adoption of the operational programmes and delays in implementation of cohesion policy for the period of 2014-2020. it is expected that only about half of the total programmes will actually be adopted by the end of this year and the rest will face a long delay in the start of implementation because of the appeared requirement of technical revision of the multiannual financial framework (mff). in 2015 europe might face a significant downturn in growth, a missed opportunity for investments and creation of jobs. this is a risk which must be avoided. thus i call upon the commission and the member states to streamline internal procedures in order to ensure that as many programmes as possible are ready for adoption by 31 december 2014. furthermore, the adoption of the mff revision must be conducted as early as feasible and the solutions for limiting the damage must be envisaged very clearly. this scenario cannot happen again in the future. the price is too high and the lessons must be learned.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution, which aims to encourage the commission and the member states to draw up and adopt the cohesion policy programmes for 2014-2020 as soon as possible. cohesion policy is the eu's main policy for investment in the real economy and a tool to boost growth and jobs in the eu, with a budget of over €350 billion by 2020. today, not only is the implementation of the 2014-2020 cohesion policy delayed, but also the payments for the 2007-2013 programming period are delayed - both of which undermine the credibility of the cohesion policy. i support calls on the commission and the member states to adopt as many action programmes as possible in 2014. it is necessary that the commission endeavours to simplify its internal procedures in order to allow for the adoption of programmes more quickly.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution because cohesion policy is a key instrument of the european union (eu) strategy to reduce regional disparities and inequalities, to contribute to increasing diversity and adaptation to industrial change, and to achieve economic, social and territorial cohesion. the policy is the eu's main instrument for investment in the economy, growth and jobs, with a budget of over €350 billion until 2020. the european parliament is particularly concerned about the serious delays in the implementation of the 2014-2020 cohesion policy. it also recalls that the current delays are creating difficulties for national, regional and local authorities in terms of their ability to effectively plan and implement the european structural investment funds for 2014-2020. the european parliament therefore calls on the commission and the member states to act responsibly and to take all possible measures to ensure that as many programmes as possible are drawn up and adopted before the end of the year.
in writing. cohesion policy the eu's main policy for investment in the real economy and a tool for boosting growth and jobs in the eu, with a budget of over €350 billion until 2020. that is the opening sentence of the document we are voting on today. it should also be stressed that cohesion policy is the main source of investment in some member states. the new president of the european commission is deeply concerned about the delay in implementing an important eu policy instrument, but maintaining a high quality of the action programme at the beginning of its implementation can easily avoid future errors, fraud and the lack of transparency in the management of funds in the member states. the aim of reaching agreement on a timetable for implementing the measures by the end of 2014 and of supplementing the cohesion policy fund with the eur 315 billion in investment funding provided by the new european commission is therefore welcome.
in writing. i voted in favour because i fully share parliament's concern about the delays in the approval of cohesion programmes. despite the fact that cohesion policy programmes were due to start at the beginning of this year, there is a real risk that a large part of them will not start in 2015. it must be acknowledged that the information provided by the european commission that member states may not wait for the approval of programmes and obtain them if they do not raise any doubts in the ec is not acceptable. member states may not risk funds that may later be declared ineligible. it is well known that cohesion policy, combined with the co-financing of the member states, covers a large part of the public expenditure related to growth in the european union. how can we boost job creation, fight the crisis, while at the same time cutting the branch we're sitting on? the delays in the approval of cohesion policy programmes, the delays in the payment of cohesion policy action programmes for 2007-13 are contributing to economic stagnation in europe. i don't think we want that. in this context, i call on both the european commission and the council to address these problems.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution because the delay in the implementation of the 2014-2020 cohesion policy means that programmes financed by the structural funds may not be approved. we need to ensure that we have as many action programmes as possible and that we can speed up their implementation. further delays in the implementation of cohesion policy may threaten jobs and infrastructure improvements, which are the prerequisite for a programme financed by the structural funds.
in writing. i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to revise the commission's impact assessment (ia) guidelines. as a tool at an early stage of the legislative development process, impact assessment plays an important role in the eu decision-making process in order to provide detailed facts about the nature of the problem being addressed. adequate and independent impact assessment is crucial for smes, which often face more difficulties than large companies in adapting to new legal and administrative requirements. i support the proposals to establish clearer procedures for the impact assessment board, to strengthen its independence, and to ensure that the iab is composed of highly qualified persons. it is important that the sme impact assessment considers all economic, social and environmental aspects.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution because impact assessment, as a tool at an early stage in the development of legislation, plays a crucial role in the commission's advanced regulatory agenda to provide transparent, comprehensive and proportionate facts on economic and social impact. in addition, impact assessments are an important tool for decision-making in all eu institutions and an important part of the better regulation process. i would like to stress that the impact assessment must be thorough, thorough and based on the most accurate, objective and comprehensive information available, with an analysis that is proportionate and focused on the objective of the proposal, in order to enable a sound policy decision to be taken. it is therefore important to consult all relevant stakeholders at an early stage of the impact assessment process so that their input can be taken into account in the preparation of the impact assessment before its publication. the european parliament therefore calls on the commission to present a new revised draft impact assessment guidelines, taking into account the issues highlighted in this resolution and the new structure of the commission, in particular the role of the new vice-president of the commission responsible for better regulation.
in writing. — a few weeks ago we celebrated the 25th anniversary of the un convention on the rights of the child, which is the most widely ratified human rights convention worldwide, including ratification by all eu member states. progress towards safeguarding children’s rights has been made since its adoption but new challenges have emerged and children’s rights continue to be breached in many parts of the world as well in the eu. many children are still victims of violence, war, poverty, social exclusion and rights violations. also more needs to be done in our relationship with the third world countries to see how we can better harness the influence and resources of the eu to protect children in the conflict zones. we must continue to push children’s rights globally and ensure that all children have the right to a childhood free from war. thus we cannot cease and must work further to ensure full implementation of the un convention on the rights of the child in policy and in practice and to take additional measures to ensure respect for the rights of every child everywhere, especially the most vulnerable. i call on the eu institutions and the member states to join forces and cooperate to improve the situation of children.
in writing. this year marks the 25th anniversary of the united nations convention on the rights of the child. i voted in favour of this proposal, which seeks to ratify all the optional protocols to the un convention on the rights of the child. the protection and promotion of children's rights are clearly stated objectives of the eu. standards for the promotion and protection of the rights of the child as defined by the un convention on the rights of the child a comprehensive set of international legal standards for the protection and well-being of children. i support the calls for the eu and its member states to give the millennium development goals (mdgs) top priority in their internal policies and in their relations with third countries. it is also important to give a clear focus to children in the implementation of the european semester, the preparation of the annual growth survey and the review of the europe 2020 strategy. it is essential that the eu and its member states invest in public services for children, including childcare, education and healthcare.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution on the united nations convention on the rights of the child, which i helped draft as a co-author. as i said yesterday in the debate, we would like to celebrate the greater achievements and even more the beautiful anniversary of the convention on the rights of the child, but the reality is that we have not yet achieved much of what we promised the world's children 25 years ago. this session also discussed child hunger, malnutrition and malnutrition in developing countries. after all, many children are now living in poverty, not only in developing regions of the world but also in the rich countries of the european union. of course, child poverty and hunger are associated with high unemployment in all regions of the world, with low family incomes, with family poverty and exclusion, with the inability to support large families. so i hope that in the future, we will be able to join the efforts of governments, ngos and individuals and not leave any child to his or her fate.
in writing. safeguarding children's rights must be a priority for all our work, both in the eu member states and beyond, especially in non-democratic countries, in war zones. even when the latest report by the united nations children's fund (unicef) on child poverty in rich countries shows that since 2008, 2.6 million children in the world's richest countries have been pushed below the poverty line - a worrying situation, and children are the most vulnerable segment of society. investing in children, policies specific to children, improving their social situation in the ways chosen by member states through educational programmes, education, community support, support for families, would undoubtedly have yielded results in the near future. on the other hand, the world's humanitarian crises continue to do exceptional harm to children. in 2014, over 59 million children were directly affected by conflict-related crises, and today there are around 250 000 child soldiers, of whom 40% are girls. an integrated policy for children, in conjunction with the eu's neighbourhood or development policies, can therefore be effective. the fight against child poverty, child exploitation, has to start today. accession to the un convention on the rights of the child by countries such as somalia or south sudan should be done without delay, perhaps even under pressure from the international community. in the european parliament, we constantly draw attention to children's rights and their violations, and last year's sakharov prize was an illustration of this. malala, who fought for the right of children to education, won not only the sakharov prize but also the nobel peace prize.
in writing. i support this resolution and would like to emphasise one aspect which i consider particularly important. it is essential for the european union to start working towards improving joint cooperation in the search for missing children. child abduction is a common and very serious crime that endangers not only children but also parents and entire communities.
in writing. i voted in favour of this non-binding resolution, which aims to discuss plans for the creation of a digital single market. in some areas of the digital single market, there are weaknesses caused by dominant operators. i support calls to ensure the implementation of the rules of the internal market for urgent services and to ensure the implementation of rules such as the consumer rights directive, alternative dispute resolution and electronic dispute resolution mechanisms. it is necessary to ensure a level playing field for companies operating in the digital single market, as this is essential for their ability to compete. it is important to adopt a new modernised data protection package as a matter of urgency in order to ensure the right balance between a high level of protection of personal data, consumer safety and control of personal data, and a stable and predictable legislative environment. the commission and the member states must allocate the resources needed to combat cybercrime through legislative instruments and law enforcement cooperation at both national and eu level. all internet data flows should be subject to uniform, non-discriminatory conditions.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution because the digital market not only provides economic benefits but also has a particularly significant impact on the daily political, social and cultural lives of consumers and citizens in the european union. the digital single market is one of the most innovative sectors of the economy and is therefore crucial for the competitiveness of the european economy and contributes to economic growth through the development of e-commerce. however, it is recognised that there are shortcomings in some areas of the digital single market. the european parliament therefore calls on the commission to ensure the implementation of the rules of the internal market for urgent services and the implementation and enforcement of provisions such as the consumer rights directive, the alternative dispute resolution and electronic dispute resolution mechanisms, while ensuring a reduction in the administrative burden. calls on the commission and the member states to further develop and implement eu and national regulatory frameworks in order to create an integrated and secure market for online and mobile payments, while ensuring the protection of consumers and consumer data;
in writing. the digital single market creates millions of jobs and could create an additional 4% of gdp in europe by 2020. a competitive digital single market cannot exist without high-speed, high-capacity broadband and telecommunications networks in all eu regions. it is encouraging that lithuania continues to lead europe in terms of broadband penetration via fibre lines (33.9%). lithuania ranked 7th in the world in this indicator. the commission notes that the measure is aimed at improving the competitiveness of the lithuanian economy and promoting the development of the economy as a whole. so we have a great opportunity to develop this area further, bringing a lot of economic value. at the same time, it is desirable to draw attention to the fact that cybersecurity and the security of electronic communications and networks are priority issues in the digital single market that need to be addressed urgently and with common capabilities.
in writing. i am in favour of a digital single market and i believe that the time has come to act on it. the creation of a digital single market would undoubtedly stimulate innovation and technology in europe and would be a major driver of economic competitiveness. i believe it is important for the european union to develop a strong and modern infrastructure.
in writing. nearly one billion people suffer from hunger and some 225 million children under the age of five suffer from severe chronic malnutrition. in developing countries, 2.6 million such children die each year. the causes of child malnutrition are many: inefficient economic structures, unequal distribution and misuse of resources, poor management, over-reliance on individual crops, discrimination against women and children, inadequate health care systems, and inadequate education. i agree with the calls for governments to ensure that food availability is possible by directly working the land; that accessibility is ensured by economic and physical access to food; and that food is safe and adequate for the nutritional needs of each person. it is necessary to integrate nutrition, food security and sustainable agriculture into all its development policies. i support calls on the commission and the member states to pursue coherent strategies for sustainable development and to work towards reducing the scale of hunger, including in the context of emergencies and humanitarian intervention.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution because almost one billion people still suffer from hunger and at least 225 million children under the age of five worldwide suffer from severe chronic malnutrition or from developmental disorders caused by chronic child and maternal malnutrition. in addition, an estimated 2.6 million such children die each year in developing countries. malnutrition or malnutrition in such lands leads to an increase in birth defects, the development of a multitude of diseases, and, of course, an increase in mortality, especially among children. there are many causes of childhood malnutrition, but most of them are caused by human activity, and they can be prevented, and we need to do so as soon as possible. these include inefficient economic structures, unequal and disorderly distribution of resources, discrimination against women and children, and poor health due to inadequate health care systems, as well as inadequate nutrition education. the fight against child malnutrition and the achievement of universal access to adequate nutritious food should therefore remain at the top of the post-2015 development agenda.
in writing. available data indicate that almost one billion people worldwide suffer from hunger, and at least 225 million children under the age of five suffer from severe chronic malnutrition or developmental disabilities. in developing countries, 2.6 million such children die each year. micronutrient deficiency is also a major problem, accounting for 7% of all diseases worldwide, especially among newborns and infants. women and girls are the most vulnerable group, accounting for 60% of the victims of chronic hunger. although women produce 60 to 80 percent of the food in developing countries, and do 80 percent of the farming work, they officially own only 2 percent of the land. the solution to child malnutrition requires an integrated approach in the implementation of development cooperation and in the context of humanitarian and natural crises, taking coordinated action in the areas of health, education, agriculture, water, access to energy resources and sanitation that affect child malnutrition.
in writing. i voted in favour because i support the resolution which calls for the necessary action to save 2.6 million children every year. that's the number of children in developing countries, or 30 children under the age of five, who die every minute from developmental disorders caused by chronic malnutrition. i support the objectives of the resolution, which provides for concrete support of 3.5 billion to improve nutrition. it is also important that the resolution makes clear that climate change will have a negative impact on agricultural production. so we have to think bigger when we're dealing with hunger. without the protection of marine life and other ecosystems and biodiversity, deforestation and climate change mitigation, sustainable and secure access to energy, decent employment, product redistribution, we will not be able to achieve the ambitious goal of eliminating all forms of malnutrition by 2030.
madam president, mr vice-president of the commission, your remarks confirm this: the problem is not to revise the rules which were put in place at the height of the crisis to clean up the economic and budgetary policies in the union, but to apply these rules, to apply them fully in the letter and in the spirit. it is a matter of credibility: the credibility of the union and, more particularly, of the governance of the euro area, which has set itself even more ambitious objectives in this area with the budgetary pact, and the credibility, mr vice-president, of the new commission. i would like to follow my colleagues in the epp, and in particular mr theurer, in issuing a warning here: the rules must apply in the same way in all member states, regardless of their size. i would remind you that the reason why new legislation - six-pack and two-pack - had to be adopted is that the original rules - the stability and growth pact - were not applied. in 2003, the two largest economic powers in the union - germany and france - were found to have emerged from the crisis at the same time. they have asked for - and obtained without much difficulty - flexibility and interpretation of the rules, which have emptied them of their content. the conclusion was that the union could not function on the basis of an unconfessed principle which is not, for the states, too big to fail but somehow too big to be blamed too big to be sanctioned. if we do it again today, if the commission is inflexible with greece and portugal but trembles in the face of countries larger than spain, then the whole system will collapse. because, in the end, we will inexorably return to the situation we wanted to avoid at all costs, in which financial operators and rating agencies decide the fate of our economies instead of politicians. (the president agreed to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
the question asked when the blue card is raised. the situation in each country is quite different, but i would like to ask you this question: shouldn't the principle be legalised to protect society, that first of all, when the economy recovers, when the budget is restored, social benefits, wages, tax refunds should be restored, and only then talk about new programmes, only then implement new programmes?
mr president, commissioner, the committee on internal market and consumer protection (imco) at the moment is working on a report for better integration of the single market pillar in the european semester. i believe the single market is a key to achieve growth and is something we have really lost focus on, as the member states have failed to implement some very good directives, very good recommendations, and this is where we are failing. also, the annual report on single market integration was not provided by the commission. where is it? the european parliament would like to propose a number of analytical tools: barometers – we have to measure our performance, everyone has to see how we are performing; methodology to measure reduction of administrative burden. this is where we are failing. too much red tape – it is too difficult. let us measure it to find out what needs to be done. furthermore, i would like to stress the importance of the implementation of the european semester, otherwise there is no need to work on a single market pillar. i also want to mention a crucial aspect of the role of national parliaments. (the president cut off the speaker)
in writing. ‒ the european ombudsman investigates complaints of maladministration by the institutions and bodies of the european union. it is open to eu citizens and residents, businesses, associations and other organisations registered in eu countries. i have endorsed the irishwoman emily o'reilly for the post of ombudsman for the 2014-2019 term.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the candidate ms emily o'reilly for the post of the european ombudsman. taking into consideration the fact that the independent european ombudsman plays an important part in ensuring that eu institutions adhere to the principles of good administration and respect for eu citizens' rights under the treaties and the eu charter of fundamental rights, i am sure that mrs emily o'reilly is a suitable candidate for the post of european ombudsman. she has underlined the dangers of an over-reliance on the law as being detrimental to the requirements of good administration. she has also emphasised that the fundamental values and principles on which the eu is based, including fairness and justice, need to complement the law.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal to repeal directive 93/5/eec on the scientific examination of questions relating to food. at the end of 2012, the commission launched the eu regulatory quality and performance programme to provide businesses, workers and citizens with a simple and stable regulatory framework. the commission thus committed itself to abolishing unnecessary or outdated rules. the aim of the council directive on the scientific examination of foodstuffs was to ensure the smooth functioning of the scientific committee for food. since the tasks assigned to that committee have subsequently been taken over by the scientific committee and the european food safety authority, i agree that that directive has become obsolete and should be repealed.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because it supports the repeal of an outdated directive adopted in 1995. the purpose of this directive was to ensure the smooth functioning of the scientific committee for food by encouraging member states to provide scientific support to the commission and to ensure cooperation with national authorities on matters relating to food safety. since 1995, the functions and objectives of this directive have been taken over by other, newer legislation, and the 1995 directive has therefore become obsolete. the commission has therefore decided to repeal the legislation adopted almost 20 years ago under the current refit programme, which aims to simplify the eu legislative framework so that citizens, workers and businesses can benefit from a simple, clear, stable and predictable regulatory framework.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour for the proposal for a directive on assistance to the commission and cooperation by the member states in the scientific examination of questions relating to food. i believe that it is necessary to ensure smooth cooperation with the relevant national bodies on scientific issues regarding the safety of foodstuffs.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to confirm the eu's accession to cites. cites is the main international instrument for protecting endangered species of fauna and flora by controlling international trade in specimens of these species. the convention entered into force in 1975 and has 178 parties (including all eu member states). it covers about 35 000 species. import, export and introduction from the sea of these species shall be authorised through a licensing system. at the end of 2013, the eu was given the opportunity to become a cites party. i agree that the eu's accession to cites is a necessary step to ensure that the eu is fully capable of achieving its environmental policy objectives. i believe that accession would give the commission the opportunity to express a consistent eu position on cites issues on behalf of the eu and give the eu a greater role in the negotiations at cites conferences.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it supports the european union's accession to the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites). this international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora, adopted as early as 1975, is the main international instrument for the protection of endangered species of fauna and flora by controlling international trade in specimens of those species. the convention has 178 parties (including all eu member states) and covers some 35 000 species of flora and fauna. these species are classified according to the level of protection they require and the convention aims to ensure that international trade in specimens of these species does not endanger their survival.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to sign a cooperation agreement on a civil global navigation satellite system (gnss) with morocco. morocco has a lot of practical experience in space technology and would like to expand the use of satellite navigation on its territory and in the surrounding region western mediterranean and west africa. the agreement provides for cooperation in the fields of satellite navigation and timing, research, industrial production, training, service and market development, trade, and issues related to radio spectrum, integrity, standardisation and certification. as the agreement will strengthen joint eu-morocco activities in these sectors, i believe it will be beneficial for the citizens, industry and scientific communities of both countries. i'm in favor of the settlement.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it gives parliament its support for the conclusion of a cooperation agreement between the eu and the kingdom of morocco on a civil global navigation satellite system (gnss). the purpose of the agreement is to encourage, facilitate and enhance cooperation between the parties through the contribution of europe and morocco to the development of a civil global navigation satellite system (gnss). the eu and morocco have concluded this agreement in the light of their shared interest in developing a civilian global navigation satellite system (gnss) and the growing expansion of gnss applications in morocco, europe and elsewhere in the world, and in recognition of the importance of the galileo programme for the navigation and information infrastructure of europe and morocco.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to renew the agreement with ukraine on cooperation in science and technology. the content of the renewed agreement will be essentially the same as that of the current agreement, which expired on 7 november 2014. this initiative will provide an opportunity for both parties to enhance and strengthen cooperation in areas of common scientific and technological interest. the agreement is based on mutual benefit, mutual opportunities to participate in each other's programmes and activities. the principles of non-discrimination and protection of intellectual property are laid down. i agree that the renewal of this agreement will lead to more scientific knowledge, which will open up more market access opportunities.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because it supports the renewal of the eu-ukraine agreement on cooperation in science and technology. the substance of the content of the renewed agreement will be the same as that of the current agreement, which expires on 7 november 2014. this agreement will provide an opportunity for both parties to enhance and strengthen cooperation in areas of common scientific and technological interest and will allow for further exchanges of specific knowledge and transfer of practical experience for the benefit of the scientific community, industry and citizens in the implementation of this initiative.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the renewal of the agreement on cooperation in science and technology between the european community and ukraine. this initiative will allow both parties to improve and intensify the work in the areas of common interests. moreover, this would lead to further exchange of specific knowledge and know-how which will definitely benefit the scientific communities and the citizens.
in writing. ‒ this agreement extends the expiring eu-ukraine agreement on cooperation in science and technology. the implementation of this initiative will allow for the further exchange of specific knowledge and the transfer of practical experience for the benefit and improvement of the scientific community, industry and citizens. i support and encourage all forms of assistance to ukraine, which is facing an aggressor. we must not forget that we needed help at one time, and i, as a representative of lithuania, can emphasise that 24 years ago it was the international community that was the pillar that helped lithuania escape from the russian grip.
in writing. ‒ croatia’s admission as a new contracting party to the european economic area should be congratulated as an essential milestone event for the country to become a fully-fledged member state and participant of the union. looking back on croatia’s accession to the eu, one must take into account that its integration process entails both political and economic dimensions which needless to say are highly interconnected. this means that only by being economically engaged can a country be fully politically involved in eu decision making. hence, making these new economic ties between the eu and croatia results not only in free flow of goods and services but also in joint economic and trade policy and shared expertise and cooperation in such areas as innovation, development and consumer protection, which in turn will benefit not only croatia but the european union’s economy as a whole.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to ensure that croatia joins the european economic area (eea). in order to facilitate the participation of croatia in the eea, the following agreements are hereby concluded: the agreement on the participation of the republic of croatia in the eea, the norway-eu agreement on the additional protocol to the financial mechanism of norway for the period 2009-2014 and the additional protocol to the agreement between the european economic community and iceland. the eea agreement provides for the application of eu law in all eea states, covering the four freedoms (free movement of goods, services, persons and capital). it also covers cooperation in other areas such as research and technological development, education, social policy, environment, consumer protection, etc. i believe that croatia's participation in the eea is a normal consequence of its accession to the eu and therefore i support it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it gives parliament its consent to the conclusion on behalf of the eu of the agreement on the participation of croatia in the european economic area (hereinafter referred to as the 'eea agreement') and three related agreements. the eea agreement was signed in 1992 and croatia, in accordance with its act of accession, undertakes to accede to it under the conditions laid down in that act. under the eea agreement, the eu member states and the three members of the european free trade association iceland, liechtenstein and norway are brought together in a single market, with free movement of goods, services, persons and capital across the eea. the european parliament adopted a resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia on the basis of the conclusions of the european council in brussels on 21 and 22 june.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour for participation of croatia in the european economic area. i support croatia’s participation in the european economic area, because as croatia is a member of the eu, it is natural consequence that it becomes a member of the eea.
in writing. ‒ the eea agreement provides for the application of eu law in all eea states, covering the four freedoms (free movement of goods, services, persons and capital). the agreement also covers cooperation in other important areas such as research and technological development, education, social policy, the environment, consumer protection, tourism and culture. in favour of deeper eu integration, i voted for croatia's participation in the european economic area as an inevitable step after its accession to the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to establish a new legal framework for the dock dues applicable in the french outermost regions from 1 january 2015 to 31 december 2020, by approving products that may benefit from exemption or reduction. france is authorised to apply a reduced dockage tax to certain products produced in the french outermost regions. this is to compensate for the disadvantages faced by such regions: remoteness, dependence on raw materials and energy resources, and a small local market. since this measure promotes the economy and competitiveness of the outermost regions without undermining the coherence of the internal market and the eu legal system, i support this proposal.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it was the report parliament adopted in favour of the decision on the procedure for applying the dock levy in the french outermost regions. the purpose of this decision is to establish a new legal framework governing dock dues in the french outermost regions, payable from 1 january 2015 to 31 december 2020, and to adopt a list of products eligible for exemption or reduction. since, in the parliament's view, this measure can be considered justified and intended to promote the economy and competitiveness of the eu's outermost regions without damaging the coherence of the internal market and the eu's legal system, parliament gave its unamended consent to the agreement.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour concerning dock dues in the french outermost regions. i am sure that we have to provide a support for the outermost regions in order to make them more competitive and provide a possibility to develop economically and socially. i do believe that the application of exemptions or reductions to the ‘dock dues’ tax will boost the level of the small sized export activity of a small market.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to mobilise the egf for the needs of italy in order to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant by the electrical equipment manufacturer 'whirlpool europe'. the global financial and economic crisis led to a severe economic downturn in the 28 eu member states and italy in 2009. the italian market for large household appliances decreased from 3,174 billion in 2010 to 2,649 billion in 2013, i.e. by 16,5%. a total of eur 1 890 000 is to be granted from the egf to 608 redundant workers. a tailored package of services will include guidance and counselling, skills assessment, retraining, vocational training and entrepreneurship advice. i am in favour of the allocation of funds from this fund to redundant staff of whirlpool europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it was the one where parliament gave its support to the decision to grant aid to 608 workers made redundant in 2014 by the italian firm whirpool and five supply and downstream companies. the italian authorities argue that the global financial and economic crisis has had a significant impact on the consumption choices of italian households, which have reconsidered their purchasing decisions, in particular those concerning the purchase of consumer durables, including household appliances. as a result, the market for large household appliances decreased by 16,5%. the granting of this aid to the redundant workers also took into account the fact that the redundancies would further worsen the unemployment situation in the province of trento, where the unemployment rate has doubled since the beginning of the crisis and the decline in employment has affected both the construction and industrial sectors.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund: application egf/2014/010 it/whirlpool. i do believe that the eu should protect and support its citizens from any crisis. we should provide a financial support for people in need and give them a chance to reintegrate themselves into the labour market after they were dismissed due to a significant downturn in the economy. i do believe that the eu has to help the redundant workers to come back into labour market.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims at allocating a total amount of eur 1 259 610 from the egf to poland to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant by fiat auto poland. since 2007, the european automotive industry has lost market share. in that year, european passenger car production accounted for 32,2% of total world production, compared to 23,2% in 2012. the impact of globalisation was further exacerbated by the financial crisis, which led to an unprecedented drop in sales of new passenger cars in the union. the package of services for the 777 redundant employees will include entrepreneurship training, apprenticeship grants, traineeship grants and grants for those wishing to become self-employed. i support the allocation of funds from this fund to the redundant employees of fiat auto poland.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it was the parliament's decision to support the 1079 workers made redundant in 2013 by fiat auto poland and its suppliers and downstream companies. the decision to grant aid underlines that the european automotive industry has lost market share since the start of the crisis and that the situation is even worse at national level. parliament therefore agrees that the redundancies at the fiat plant in tycho and at its suppliers and downstream companies are linked to the fundamental structural changes in the world trade system brought about by globalisation and that the impact of globalisation has been exacerbated by the financial crisis, which has led to a sharp drop in sales of new passenger cars in the union. in this case, the redundancies at the fiat plant in tycho will have a negative impact on the whole region, as the former employees of fiat auto poland, its suppliers and downstream companies represent 10% of all unemployed persons in these areas.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour for the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund: application egf/2013/006 pl/fiat auto poland s.a. i do believe that the eu should protect and support its citizens from any crisis. we should provide a financial support for people in need and give them a chance to reintegrate themselves into the labour market after they were dismissed due to major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation. moreover, there are 6 workers with longstanding health problems or disabilities who definitely need support to overcome the crisis.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to mobilise the egf for greece in order to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant by the retailer odyssefs fokas sa. since 2008, greek gdp has decreased by 25,7%, public consumption by 21%, private consumption by 32,3% and unemployment by 20,6%. the egf is intended to provide a total of eur 6 444 000 to 600 beneficiaries. the package tailored to the individual needs of the dismissed employees will include career guidance, training, retraining, business start-up support and mobility allowance. i support the allocation of funds from this fund to the redundant workers of odyssefs fokas.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it was the one that gave parliament its support for the decision to grant aid to 551 workers made redundant in 2014 by the company odyssefs fokas s.a.. it is alleged that the two events which initially triggered the redundancies were: a decline in disposable household income due to an increased tax burden, a decline in wages (in both the private and public sectors) and rising unemployment, and a consequent sharp decline in purchasing power. the commission notes that the bank of greece has not provided any information on the amount of the loan to the bank of greece.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour for mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund: application egf/2014/013 el/odyssefs fokas. i am in favour of the mobilisation of the fund concerning this request, because the application relates to 500 young persons not in employment, education or training. considering the fact that youth unemployment rate is dramatically high in the eu, thus i strongly support all financial measures that promote entrepreneurship and business initiative that might lead to create more workplaces.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to mobilise a total of eur 25 937 813 from the egf for the needs of france. international air transport has suffered from severe economic shocks and a particularly sharp decline in its share of the eu market. the redundancies of 'air france' are linked to the major structural changes in the world trade system due to globalisation and to the decline in the union's air transport market share. the package of services tailored to the individual needs of the 3 886 redundant workers includes staff counselling and career guidance services, training, business creation support, retraining and mobility benefits. i approve the allocation of funds from this fund to the redundant employees of air france.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it was the report by which parliament approved the granting of aid to 5 213 workers made redundant by 'air france' in 2013. it is noted that the redundancies of 'air france' are linked to the major structural changes in the world trade system due to globalisation and to the decline in the union air transport market share, in particular the impressive growth of the three main gulf carriers, which was further exacerbated by the global financial and economic crisis. the aid was also granted because the redundancies of 'air france' would have a negative impact on the île-de-france region, which will be the subject of another collective redundancy, as the closure of the 'peugeot citroën automobile (psa) ' car plant at one is still ongoing this year.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund: application egf/2013/014 fr/air france, from france. i do believe that this application fulfils the eligibility criteria laid down in the egf regulation. to my mind the eu has to support the companies suffering the consequence of the economic crisis. the eu has to take all possible measures to ensure that the dismissed workers have the ability to reintegrate themselves into the labour market, to get appropriate advisory services and vocational guidance, training etc.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to appoint the chair, the vice-chair and the members of the single resolution board responsible for the functioning of the single resolution mechanism. this mechanism will complement the single supervisory mechanism, which will be directly supervised by the european central bank in the euro area and in other member states that decide to join the banking union when it becomes operational at the end of 2014. a common bank resolution mechanism would ensure that, in the event of a bank subject to the ssm experiencing significant difficulties despite enhanced supervision, it could be effectively resolved at the least cost to taxpayers and the real economy. the members of the board shall be appointed on the basis of their merits, competence, knowledge of banking and financial affairs and experience in financial supervision, regulation and banking resolution. i support the proposal to appoint the candidates proposed by the commission.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it was the report by which parliament gave its consent to the appointment of the members of the general board of the bank. the general board of resolution part of the european banking union. the european banking union is a single banking supervisory mechanism designed to enhance the soundness and safety of the financial sector. it was created to improve the regulation, supervision and governance of the financial sector so that taxpayers do not have to pay for bank mistakes in the future. most of the banking union's rules have either already entered into force or are in the process of being finalised.
the question asked when the blue card is raised. i wanted to ask my colleagues: during the elections and now, the citizens of the european union who have lower incomes are really hoping and expecting that both the new commission and the new parliament will take many decisions that will give a better perspective. do you think that the new programme should include a minimum wage within the european union in order to guarantee the minimum necessary income for work?
in writing. madam president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen. it is difficult enough in these discussions to evaluate in detail the work programme presented by the commission, which has not yet been presented to us. in your speech you mentioned that the commission's work programme for the coming year will build on the commission's communication on the guidelines for investment. i fully agree that europe needs investments to enable projects of european interest to be implemented in the areas of energy, transport, the digital agenda, research and other very important areas, and i am pleased that we will already be receiving important proposals in these areas next year. i welcome the commission's detailed investment plan for the european union, which will have to be approved by the european council in the coming days.
written. the commission emphasises that its work programme for the coming year is people-centred, with a view to regaining europeans' trust in europe. unfortunately, i think that the social dimension is missing from this programme and that social policy, among all the other priorities, appears only as an adjunct, or worse, as an administrative burden, to the economic tasks of the single market. first of all, i would like to stress that we must strengthen the social dimension of the european union. the commission must pursue policies that help improve the daily lives of our people, especially those who have suffered the most from the effects of the recession and austerity. after all, the last elections made it clear that there are a lot of people who are not happy with the eu, that people want change. unemployment remains one of the most acute problems in the european union. at present, 25 million europeans are unemployed. people need to have not only jobs but also decent working conditions and a fair wage. it is necessary to establish a subsistence minimum wage system in the european union, which would ensure that workers receive a wage above the poverty line. the pay gap between men and women in the same job needs to be reduced more rapidly. eu legislation on working conditions needs to be improved to improve worker safety. the fight against poverty, especially child poverty, must be a priority for europe as a matter of urgency.
the european council failed to reach agreement on the 2015 budget. the european parliament took a very clear position on the 2015 budget that the european union's commitments must be based on adequate funding, especially in the most important areas. i was responsible for the drafting of the opinion in the afet committee and it is therefore welcome that the agreement on increased funding for european neighbourhood programmes, humanitarian aid and the common foreign and security policy is particularly relevant in the light of current events. however, i am not in favour of reducing the funding for the european agricultural guarantee fund, as this will affect many farmers in the european union who are in a particularly difficult situation due to the prolonged russian embargo and who need financial assistance from the european union.
in writing. mr president, the draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2015 presents a major challenge to the european institutions, as its adoption is taking place in the context of the continuing economic crisis which has disrupted the community's finances as a whole. the financial institutions, the member states, especially in southern europe, are largely responsible for the current crisis, but it is also worth remembering that the eu bureaucracy has reacted too slowly and inadequately to the situation. the draft budget for the following year is therefore of crucial importance in view of the prospects for economic recovery. it is therefore essential to include in the 2015 budget additional funds to boost the economy while protecting the most vulnerable social groups. it is good that the maximum allocation for this purpose is planned to be around eur 67 billion, which will be used to promote growth and employment. support for improving social, regional and economic cohesion should become an important element. the european parliament should support these budgetary provisions, which will also increase funding for education, research and innovation, with a 38% increase in funding next year compared to last year. but what seems to be most important, especially for countries in central and eastern europe like lithuania, is the special attention paid to farmers. they are the ones who suffer the most from the effects of a balanced food market. the union should therefore allocate the available surplus from the special reserve to compensate for european agricultural losses.
on behalf of the alde group.– madam president, exactly a month ago, this parliament voted in favour of the association agreement with moldova. i hope we are all convinced that, by embarking on the implementation of the eu-moldova association agenda, our aim is to make this country and the whole region more stable and prosperous. however, this is not shared by ‘big brother’ to the east, which chose to ban a long list of moldovan agricultural products. this is in violation of russia’s world trade organisation commitments. it clearly harms not only the moldovan people, but the russian people too, as the prices in russia’s empty shops have gone up considerably. our decision today is one more act to show our political solidarity with the people of moldova – first and foremost with those 250 000 people who are living from agriculture in that country. as we know, agriculture represents around 40% of moldova’s economy. by extending additional quotas, and doing so at this juncture – when the moldovan people have just reconfirmed their trust in the country’s european future at the recent elections – we are making a correct and timely step in all regards – political, economic and, to a certain degree, even humanitarian. we should have no concerns about a dramatic inflow of moldovan grapes, plums or apples into the european union market. i can assure you that they are tasty and good for our stomachs.
i would like to support the amendment proposed in principle, since moldova is a country that is very dependent on agricultural production and, by helping its agricultural production to enter the european union, we will also help to strengthen its economy. but of course, it must be ensured that the benefits that this region of moldova will receive reach all the actors, the whole chain, including apple, plum and grape growers. and of course the problem is that the crisis has been going on for almost six months, there has been a lot of talk about the search for third markets, and today it can be firmly stated that nothing has been done, although it has been announced that funds will be found for the search for markets. but i would say that if the plum and grape problem is less, the apple situation in the european union is in fact very much in need of a solution, and i think that the commission should work more quickly on this issue.
madam president, during the past few weeks talk has started to spread that the eu should start debating a common trade area with russia that starts at vladivostok and goes all the way to lisbon. in this debate i would like to ask whether it is not a better time to pay more attention to the other trade area that starts at vancouver and goes all the way to chişinău or kiev or even tbilisi. that is why today’s decision is very important because atps are additional and complementary to the liberalisation regime for goods in the dcfta. now countries like moldova and ukraine, especially after successful european elections, are showing a lot of political will and resolution to continue on a path to much needed reforms. so this is the best time to stand with moldova and show our support on their way towards europe.
, in writing. it is clear that the safety of the citizens of the european union is a priority. but when it comes to cybersecurity, i have my doubts about how far the institutions of each particular country can go to prevent potential threats. more recently, the cybersecurity law was adopted in lithuania, which allows an individual user, i emphasize an individual user, whose computer may only be infected with a virus, to disconnect the internet for 2 days, suspecting the possible impact of a cyber incident. it doesn't require a court order. this can be done by specialists from the national cyber security centre. the same law allows the police to instruct an internet provider to store for 90 days all information about a person's pages visited, payments made using online banking, postal and geographical addresses, etc. this legitimizes surveillance in a country infamous for its wiretapping of between 12 and 14 thousand people a year. members of parliament, do we really want more and more people to be followed? i'm not saying that this resolution is unnecessary. i say that it is necessary to ensure that this resolution does not become a basis for the violation of human rights and freedoms.
in writing. i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims at duty-free entry of fruit from moldova into the european union. the proposal aims at temporarily exempting from eu customs duties a certain quantity of fresh apples, grapes and plums imported from moldova. the new proposal would allow moldova to export 40 000 tonnes of fresh apples, 10 000 tonnes of fresh grapes and 10 000 tonnes of fresh plums to the eu duty-free. this concession would complement the eu-moldova free trade agreement currently in force. this measure is intended to mitigate the effects of the ban on the import of fruit from moldova into russia and i therefore support the proposal.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because it supports the amendment of the autonomous trade preferences agreement with moldova. political and economic relations between the eu and moldova have strengthened in recent years, notably with the conclusion of the association agreement, which builds on the establishment of a comprehensive and inclusive free trade area, complementing the agreement on autonomous trade preferences. as the economic and political relations between the eu and moldova have strengthened, russia has reportedly imposed an import ban on moldovan agricultural products. this ban is seriously damaging to the moldovan economy. in seeking help and support in these difficult circumstances, the moldovan authorities have turned to the eu to mitigate the negative economic impact of the russian ban, in particular on the main products of moldovan fruit growers. in the interest of solidarity, the commission has therefore proposed to amend the autonomous trade preferences agreement to establish three additional duty-free tariff quotas for fresh apples, fresh table grapes and fresh plums.
in writing. — i voted in favour of this proposal to introduce autonomous trade preferences for the republic of moldova. agriculture represents around 40% of the moldovan economy and it is now highly affected by the politically motivated import ban imposed by russia. i see this as an act of solidarity and a step forwards the creation of a ‘deep and comprehensive free trade area’.
in writing. i would like to ask my colleagues to support the proposed amendment to regulation (ec) no 55/2008. moldova is a country that is highly dependent on agricultural production, and by helping its agricultural production to enter the eu, we will help to strengthen its economy. however, i am very unhappy that the autonomous trade preferences are being proposed for apples. i would remind you that apple growers in many member states have been hit very hard by the russian embargo. by legalising this concession, we will be dealing a severe blow to our apple growers. therefore, i do not think it appropriate to introduce such a concession for apples at this stage. the other two sectors mentioned in the regulation - plum and wine - have not been affected by such severe sanctions. when the common european interest is at least theoretically to be defended will the commission show the real work and results of its search for new markets for agricultural producers affected by the russian embargo, such as european apple growers? once we start to address the issue of finding these new markets, we can even talk about much higher duty-free import quotas for other products of the moldovan agricultural sector.
in writing. i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to establish a customs tariff regime for goods originating in ecuador. negotiations with ecuador on its accession to the trade agreement concluded between the eu and colombia and peru were concluded in july 2014. following these negotiations, a protocol on the accession of ecuador to the agreement was initialled. in order to avoid unnecessary disruption of trade pending the completion of the procedures for the application of the protocol of accession, the present proposal maintains the level of the customs duties applicable to ecuador at the date of initialling of the protocol.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because it involves parliament in the legislative procedure alongside the council for the adoption of a regulation on the tariff regime for goods originating in ecuador. negotiations with ecuador on its accession to the trade agreement between the eu and colombia and peru were concluded on 17 july 2014. the ecuadorian government took this decision after coming under considerable pressure as some of its main export products were in a very unfavourable competitive position compared to the same products from colombia and peru. in order to avoid unnecessary disruption of trade until the provisional application of the eu-ecuador free trade agreement and to alleviate the burden on eu importers of goods exported from ecuador, the commission has adopted a proposal to ensure that the duties applied to products originating in ecuador on the date of accession of ecuador to the european union and the conclusion of the free trade agreement with colombia and peru are not increased and that no new duties are applied to these products. the aim is to apply this regulation from 1 january 2015.
in writing. — i voted in favour for the proposal for a regulation on the tariff treatment for goods originating in ecuador. i see it as clearly intended to be a transitional measure for ecuador and the european union before signing an eu-ecuador free trade agreement.
in writing. i voted in favour of all the draft amending budgets for 2014 and in favour of the agreement reached between the european parliament and the council on the 2015 budget. i congratulate the european parliament's negotiators for having achieved an immediate payment of eur 4.25 billion in urgent debts from this year's eu budget and for having obliged the european commission to draw up a graduated plan for the reduction of outstanding accounts and to set a sustainable debt limit for the future. the parliament will allocate €0.5 billion more to commitments than the eu council proposed. more money will be allocated to the eu research programme 'horizon 2020' and the student and youth exchange programme 'erasmus+'. the increased funding for european neighbourhood programmes, humanitarian aid and the common foreign and security policy is welcome and highly relevant in the context of the current situation in europe. however, i am opposed to cutting funding to the european agricultural guarantee fund, as this would be a response to the many eu farmers who are in a particularly difficult situation due to the prolonged russian embargo and who need eu support.
in writing. — i voted in favour for the mobilisation of the contingency margin in 2014 as this highlights the urgent need for the union budget to be as flexible as possible.
in writing. i voted in favour of all the draft amending budgets for 2014 and in favour of the agreement reached between the european parliament and the council on the 2015 budget. i congratulate the european parliament's negotiators for having achieved an immediate payment of eur 4.25 billion in urgent debts from this year's eu budget and for having obliged the european commission to draw up a graduated plan for the reduction of outstanding accounts and to set a sustainable debt limit for the future. the parliament will allocate €0.5 billion more to commitments than the eu council proposed. more money will be allocated to the eu research programme 'horizon 2020' and the student and youth exchange programme 'erasmus+'. the increased funding for european neighbourhood programmes, humanitarian aid and the common foreign and security policy is welcome and highly relevant in the context of the current situation in europe. however, i am opposed to cutting funding to the european agricultural guarantee fund, as this would be a response to the many eu farmers who are in a particularly difficult situation due to the prolonged russian embargo and who need eu support.
in writing. — i voted in favour of the draft amending budget no 3/2014. however, i would like to highlight that this solves only a short-term problem and contributes to a really small extent to the reduction of the payment backlog in the eu budget. we cannot forget that this problem is structural and political in nature.
in writing. i voted in favour of all the draft amending budgets for 2014 and in favour of the agreement reached between the european parliament and the council on the 2015 budget. i congratulate the european parliament's negotiators for having achieved an immediate payment of eur 4.25 billion in urgent debts from this year's eu budget and for having obliged the european commission to draw up a graduated plan for the reduction of outstanding accounts and to set a sustainable debt limit for the future. the parliament will allocate €0.5 billion more to commitments than the eu council proposed. more money will be allocated to the eu research programme 'horizon 2020' and the student and youth exchange programme 'erasmus+'. the increased funding for european neighbourhood programmes, humanitarian aid and the common foreign and security policy is welcome and highly relevant in the context of the current situation in europe. however, i am opposed to cutting funding to the european agricultural guarantee fund, as this would be a response to the many eu farmers who are in a particularly difficult situation due to the prolonged russian embargo and who need eu support.
in writing. i voted in favour of all the draft amending budgets for 2014 and in favour of the agreement reached between the european parliament and the council on the 2015 budget. i congratulate the european parliament's negotiators for having achieved an immediate payment of eur 4.25 billion in urgent debts from this year's eu budget and for having obliged the european commission to draw up a graduated plan for the reduction of outstanding accounts and to set a sustainable debt limit for the future. the parliament will allocate €0.5 billion more to commitments than the eu council proposed. more money will be allocated to the eu research programme 'horizon 2020' and the student and youth exchange programme 'erasmus+'. the increased funding for european neighbourhood programmes, humanitarian aid and the common foreign and security policy is welcome and highly relevant in the context of the current situation in europe. however, i am opposed to cutting funding to the european agricultural guarantee fund, as this would be a response to the many eu farmers who are in a particularly difficult situation due to the prolonged russian embargo and who need eu support.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because it gives parliament its support for the decision to mobilise the european union solidarity fund. the funds will be allocated to italy (sardinia) for the floods of november 2013, to greece (islas cavalonas) for the earthquake, to slovenia for the ice storms and to croatia for the ice storms and the floods that followed. in 2013, heavy rains in sardinia, italy, caused many rivers to overflow their banks and caused massive flooding. in 2014, a strong earthquake (measuring 5.8 on the richter scale) followed by several strong aftershocks left 3,000 people homeless and several dead in the north-east of the island of kefalonia. slovenia has been hit by one of the worst winter storms in decades, devastating parts of europe and causing damage in several countries. slovenia was hit hardest in 2014, when almost half of the country's forests were destroyed by ice, and a quarter of homes were left without electricity after heavy snowfall cut power lines and uprooted trees. croatia suffered from the same meteorological phenomenon that led slovenia to apply for assistance from the eu solidarity fund. the north-western regions and parts of the northern adriatic region were particularly affected. in addition, the melting of the ice and snow led to flooding, which further damaged important public infrastructure and private and public property.
in writing. — i voted in favour of the urgent need to release financial assistance to italy, greece, slovenia and croatia, which were affected by the natural disasters in 2013 and 2014. i see it as the duty of the european union and the main purpose of the eu solidarity fund (eusf).
in writing. i voted in favour of all the draft amending budgets for 2014 and in favour of the agreement reached between the european parliament and the council on the 2015 budget. i congratulate the european parliament's negotiators for having achieved an immediate payment of eur 4.25 billion in urgent debts from this year's eu budget and for having obliged the european commission to draw up a graduated plan for the reduction of outstanding accounts and to set a sustainable debt limit for the future. the parliament will allocate €0.5 billion more to commitments than the eu council proposed. more money will be allocated to the eu research programme 'horizon 2020' and the student and youth exchange programme 'erasmus+'. the increased funding for european neighbourhood programmes, humanitarian aid and the common foreign and security policy is welcome and highly relevant in the context of the current situation in europe. however, i am opposed to cutting funding to the european agricultural guarantee fund, as this would be a response to the many eu farmers who are in a particularly difficult situation due to the prolonged russian embargo and who need eu support.
in writing. i voted in favour of all the draft amending budgets for 2014 and in favour of the agreement reached between the european parliament and the council on the 2015 budget. i congratulate the european parliament's negotiators for having achieved an immediate payment of eur 4.25 billion in urgent debts from this year's eu budget and for having obliged the european commission to draw up a graduated plan for the reduction of outstanding accounts and to set a sustainable debt limit for the future. the parliament will allocate €0.5 billion more to commitments than the eu council proposed. more money will be allocated to the eu research programme 'horizon 2020' and the student and youth exchange programme 'erasmus+'. the increased funding for european neighbourhood programmes, humanitarian aid and the common foreign and security policy is welcome and highly relevant in the context of the current situation in europe. however, i am opposed to cutting funding to the european agricultural guarantee fund, as this would be a response to the many eu farmers who are in a particularly difficult situation due to the prolonged russian embargo and who need eu support.
in writing. i voted in favour of all the draft amending budgets for 2014 and in favour of the agreement reached between the european parliament and the council on the 2015 budget. i congratulate the european parliament's negotiators for having achieved an immediate payment of eur 4.25 billion in urgent debts from this year's eu budget and for having obliged the european commission to draw up a graduated plan for the reduction of outstanding accounts and to set a sustainable debt limit for the future. the parliament will allocate €0.5 billion more to commitments than the eu council proposed. more money will be allocated to the eu research programme 'horizon 2020' and the student and youth exchange programme 'erasmus+'. the increased funding for european neighbourhood programmes, humanitarian aid and the common foreign and security policy is welcome and highly relevant in the context of the current situation in europe. however, i am opposed to cutting funding to the european agricultural guarantee fund, as this would be a response to the many eu farmers who are in a particularly difficult situation due to the prolonged russian embargo and who need eu support.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because it gives parliament its support for the decision to mobilise the european union solidarity fund. the funds will be allocated to bulgaria following the intense and heavy rainfall in june 2014, which exceeded the monthly norm by almost four times and caused severe flooding. damage to public infrastructure and facilities in the fields of energy, water and water resources, telecommunications, transport, health, education, emergency services, cultural heritage and protected natural areas. the high levels of soil and waste leached, the flooding of sewage systems and the spilling of sewage have led to a deterioration of living conditions in the affected regions.
in writing. — i voted in favour of the urgent need to release financial assistance to serbia, croatia and bulgaria, which were affected by the natural disasters in 2014. i see it as the duty of the european union and the main purpose of the eu solidarity fund (eusf).
in writing. i voted in favour of all the draft amending budgets for 2014 and in favour of the agreement reached between the european parliament and the council on the 2015 budget. i congratulate the european parliament's negotiators for having achieved an immediate payment of eur 4.25 billion in urgent debts from this year's eu budget and for having obliged the european commission to draw up a graduated plan for the reduction of outstanding accounts and to set a sustainable debt limit for the future. the parliament will allocate €0.5 billion more to commitments than the eu council proposed. more money will be allocated to the eu research programme 'horizon 2020' and the student and youth exchange programme 'erasmus+'. the increased funding for european neighbourhood programmes, humanitarian aid and the common foreign and security policy is welcome and highly relevant in the context of the current situation in europe. however, i am opposed to cutting funding to the european agricultural guarantee fund, as this would be a response to the many eu farmers who are in a particularly difficult situation due to the prolonged russian embargo and who need eu support.
in writing. i voted in favour of all the draft amending budgets for 2014 and in favour of the agreement reached between the european parliament and the council on the 2015 budget. i congratulate the european parliament's negotiators for having achieved an immediate payment of eur 4.25 billion in urgent debts from this year's eu budget and for having obliged the european commission to draw up a graduated plan for the reduction of outstanding accounts and to set a sustainable debt limit for the future. the parliament will allocate €0.5 billion more to commitments than the eu council proposed. more money will be allocated to the eu research programme 'horizon 2020' and the student and youth exchange programme 'erasmus+'. the increased funding for european neighbourhood programmes, humanitarian aid and the common foreign and security policy is welcome and highly relevant in the context of the current situation in europe. however, i am opposed to cutting funding to the european agricultural guarantee fund, as this would be a response to the many eu farmers who are in a particularly difficult situation due to the prolonged russian embargo and who need eu support.
in writing. i voted in favour of all the draft amending budgets for 2014 and in favour of the agreement reached between the european parliament and the council on the 2015 budget. i congratulate the european parliament's negotiators for having achieved an immediate payment of eur 4.25 billion in urgent debts from this year's eu budget and for having obliged the european commission to draw up a graduated plan for the reduction of outstanding accounts and to set a sustainable debt limit for the future. the parliament will allocate €0.5 billion more to commitments than the eu council proposed. more money will be allocated to the eu research programme 'horizon 2020' and the student and youth exchange programme 'erasmus+'. the increased funding for european neighbourhood programmes, humanitarian aid and the common foreign and security policy is welcome and highly relevant in the context of the current situation in europe. however, i am opposed to cutting funding to the european agricultural guarantee fund, as this would be a response to the many eu farmers who are in a particularly difficult situation due to the prolonged russian embargo and who need eu support.
in writing. i voted in favour of all the draft amending budgets for 2014 and in favour of the agreement reached between the european parliament and the council on the 2015 budget. i congratulate the european parliament's negotiators for having achieved an immediate payment of eur 4.25 billion in urgent debts from this year's eu budget and for having obliged the european commission to draw up a graduated plan for the reduction of outstanding accounts and to set a sustainable debt limit for the future. the parliament will allocate €0.5 billion more to commitments than the eu council proposed. more money will be allocated to the eu research programme 'horizon 2020' and the student and youth exchange programme 'erasmus+'. the increased funding for european neighbourhood programmes, humanitarian aid and the common foreign and security policy is welcome and highly relevant in the context of the current situation in europe. however, i am opposed to cutting funding to the european agricultural guarantee fund, as this would be a response to the many eu farmers who are in a particularly difficult situation due to the prolonged russian embargo and who need eu support.
in writing. — i voted in favour of the motion on the eu solidarity fund. this fund is created to respond to major natural disasters. this expresses the solidarity of all the member states, which i think is absolutely necessary for the union. it is important to ensure that money reaches the affected member state rapidly, in order for the citizens of the region to feel the support.
in writing. i voted in favour of all the draft amending budgets for 2014 and in favour of the agreement reached between the european parliament and the council on the 2015 budget. i congratulate the european parliament's negotiators for having achieved an immediate payment of eur 4.25 billion in urgent debts from this year's eu budget and for having obliged the european commission to draw up a graduated plan for the reduction of outstanding accounts and to set a sustainable debt limit for the future. the parliament will allocate €0.5 billion more to commitments than the eu council proposed. more money will be allocated to the eu research programme 'horizon 2020' and the student and youth exchange programme 'erasmus+'. the increased funding for european neighbourhood programmes, humanitarian aid and the common foreign and security policy is welcome and highly relevant in the context of the current situation in europe. however, i am opposed to cutting funding to the european agricultural guarantee fund, as this would be a response to the many eu farmers who are in a particularly difficult situation due to the prolonged russian embargo and who need eu support.
in writing. — i am satisfied with the general budget deal. taking into account the really complicated negotiation process and often colliding council and ep positions, it is extremely important that the budget was finally adopted in a comparably timely manner. moreover, the increase of eur 244.2 million in the overall level of commitment appropriations compared to the initial proposition of the council is a significant achievement which will help to stabilise the current fiscal debt levels. in addition, the bigger part of funds allocated to competitiveness and innovation is a promising sign for steady growth and job creation. i believe this will contribute to the overall europe 2020 strategy and induce the overall economic performance of the eu.
in writing. i voted in favour of the agreement reached between the european parliament and the council on the 2015 budget. i congratulate the european parliament's negotiators for having achieved an immediate payment of eur 4.25 billion in urgent debts from this year's eu budget and for having obliged the european commission to draw up a graduated plan for the reduction of outstanding accounts and to set a sustainable debt limit for the future. the parliament will allocate €0.5 billion more to commitments than the eu council proposed. more money will be allocated to the eu research programme 'horizon 2020' and the student and youth exchange programme 'erasmus+'. the increased funding for european neighbourhood programmes, humanitarian aid and the common foreign and security policy is welcome and highly relevant in the context of the current situation in europe. however, i am opposed to cutting funding to the european agricultural guarantee fund, as this would affect many eu farmers who are in a particularly difficult situation due to the prolonged russian embargo and who need eu support.
in writing. i voted in favour of the agreement reached between the european parliament and the council on the 2015 budget. i congratulate the european parliament's negotiators for having achieved an immediate payment of eur 4.25 billion in urgent debts from this year's eu budget and for having obliged the european commission to draw up a graduated plan for the reduction of outstanding accounts and to set a sustainable debt limit for the future. the parliament will allocate €0.5 billion more to commitments than the eu council proposed. more money will be allocated to the eu research programme 'horizon 2020' and the student and youth exchange programme 'erasmus+'. the increased funding for european neighbourhood programmes, humanitarian aid and the common foreign and security policy is welcome and highly relevant in the context of the current situation in europe. however, i am opposed to cutting funding to the european agricultural guarantee fund, as this would affect many eu farmers who are in a particularly difficult situation due to the prolonged russian embargo and who need eu support.
in writing. i voted against this proposal, which calls on the commission to withdraw the draft implementing regulation on the list of serious infringements of eu rules. this regulation establishes the specific infringements of eu rules that deprive carriers of their good repute status. those rules help to raise the level of professional competence of road transport operators, to rationalise the market and to improve the quality of the services provided, for the benefit of road transport operators, their customers and the economy in general, while improving road safety. the proposal aims to reject this implementing regulation because the commission has not included 'illegal cabotage' in the list of infringements. however, the commission has indicated that such 'illegal cabotage' is not included because the regulation on the basis of which this act is being prepared establishes a clear list of categories and does not contain a category of illegal cabotage, i.e. the implementing regulation cannot extend the scope of the basic regulation. i therefore vote against the proposal to reject this regulation.
in writing. this document is of particular importance for those member states of the union which are close to external borders or have a well-developed road transport sector. the regulation specifies the specific infringements that deprive carriers of their good repute status. the tran committee rejected this proposal because the commission did not include 'illegal cabotage' among the infringements. the commission, for its part, explicitly stated that such 'illegal cabotage' was not included because the original regulation established a clear list of categories. it does not fall within the category of 'illegal cabotage' and therefore the implementing act of the original regulation cannot extend the scope of the basic regulation. if the ep wants to include an additional 'illegal cabotage' provision in the implementing regulation, the basic regulation should be supplemented first. i suggest that we do not politicize the cabotage issue and support the commission's proposal. the commission's studies (e.g. com ((2014) 222 final) show that illegal cabotage accounts for no more than 2% of international transport activity, while other offences (such as non-compliance with driving time arrangements) have a significantly higher negative impact on both competition between carriers and road safety. it is these other infringements which are the subject of a commission regulation which will allow the elimination of the malicious carriers from the transport business on their basis. in turn, a separate discussion could be launched on the definition and fight against illegal cabotage and the commission could be asked to draw up a separate document on this subject.
in writing. i want to support the proposal to approve the draft directive. the quality of fuel is a very important issue because it directly affects the air we all breathe. however, the proposed modifications are minimal and will not have a significant environmental impact. on the other hand, the proposal will have a significant economic impact, as it will create significant opportunities for a wider range of fuel sources. this is particularly important in view of the need to diversify fuel sources. the competitiveness of eu economies such as estonia, which has a long history of using local shale hydrocarbons, must also not be undermined. i therefore urge my colleague to vote unequivocally against the rapporteur's draft resolution calling for the rejection of the commission's proposal.
in writing. i voted against this resolution. the purpose of the proposal is to suspend the adoption of a commission delegated regulation establishing a discard plan for the baltic sea. this commission regulation aims to reduce the size of cod caught in the baltic sea, allowing fishermen to supply fish for trade of at least 35 cm, which would contribute to reducing unnecessary discards and to better protecting the baltic sea resources. the current minimum size is 38 cm. i fully support the new commission proposal and reject the resolution opposing it.
in writing. i voted against this resolution because it was intended to prevent the entry into force of a commission decision favourable to fishermen in the baltic sea and lithuania. in october, the commission decided to reduce the size of the cod market from 38 to 35 cm. the commission's decision, which will enter into force as from 1 january 2015, will allow fishermen to sell more cod already caught to the food industry and to reduce the quantities already caught but still discarded. at the same time, the scientists say that this change in the fishing regulations will not in any way undermine the recovery of fish stocks in the baltic sea and will therefore in principle allow for a more responsible and environmentally friendly fishing in the baltic sea.
in writing. — i voted against the resolution on commission delegated regulation (eu) establishing a discard plan in the baltic sea. i do support the idea of reducing the minimum conservation reference size for cod in the baltic sea from 38 cm to 35 cm as this would reduce the amount of disposable fish and would not harm the biological recovery. all in all, this would create better fishing conditions in the baltic sea.
in writing. — taking into account today’s changing security environment and emerging new security threats, a timely and prompt revision of common eu internal security strategy (iss) is needed. new threats are becoming, as never before, diversified, asymmetrical and international, meaning that international crime, radicalisation of religious and nationalistic groups, terrorism and cybercrime are on the rise and the traditional security measures and combat forms no longer serve as effective measures to tackle these challenges. therefore, we must call upon the ep, the council and commission to work closely to make the iss more coherent, univocal and targeted. thus, a motion for the revised internal security strategy (iss) including improved working methods and alternated structure is a very welcome and needed initiative. only by implementing the new iss will europe be able to preserve its legal and political order and defend itself against the new challenges on the rise.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution, which aims to update the internal security strategy. the 2010-2014 ssm is due to expire and a new ssm for the period 2015-2019 is necessary. the security situation in europe has changed dramatically in recent years as a result of new conflicts in the eu's neighbourhood. i agree with the suggestions that in preparing the new ssp, europol should examine the security threats faced today and those that are likely to emerge in the future. the new vms shall be easily adaptable to the changing situation. the rapid increase in the number of eu citizens who travel to conflict zones to join terrorist organisations and then return to the eu is a cause for concern. i therefore agree that appropriate measures must be taken to prevent recruitment for conflict, to prevent the provision of financial support to terrorist organisations and to individuals who wish to join them, and to provide for criminal prosecution. it is also important to provide adequate resources for the proper implementation of the gbs.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution because it seeks to advance parliament's contribution to the new eu internal security strategy for 2015-2019, which the commission plans to present in spring 2015. the future strategy is of particular importance in view of the dramatic change in the security situation in europe in recent years, due to new conflicts and upheavals in the eu's immediate neighbourhood, the rapid development of new technologies and the rise of radicalism, which has led to violence and terrorism. in particular, in the new eu internal security strategy, parliament called on the commission to reflect the eu charter of fundamental rights and its values, as security measures must always be applied in accordance with the rule of law and guaranteeing all fundamental rights. parliament also called for a focus on security threats both existing and emerging, and for an integrated approach to areas such as cybersecurity, trafficking in human beings and the fight against terrorism, or to interrelated issues such as organised crime, money laundering and corruption. in the resolution, parliament also stressed that a clear division of tasks between the eu and the national level was necessary for the proper implementation of the new internal security strategy.
in writing. threats of the 21st century are transcending traditional perceptions, threats are becoming asymmetrical, wars, labelled as hybrid, are taking place in the information space. the internal security strategy 2015-2019 needs to be thoroughly reviewed and identify emerging threats. this requires cross-border and inter-disciplinary cooperation, a constant exchange of information, cooperation with third countries and constant monitoring of the information field. the eu must become a flagship in the fight against terrorism and crimes against humanity, and properly assess threats from both its immediate and more distant neighbourhoods. as regards the eu's neighbourhood, i would like to stress once again that no 'green man' can arbitrarily occupy the territory of an independent state and that the eu must be prepared to respond appropriately to any act of aggression.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution. the eu has repeatedly reaffirmed its support for an israeli-palestinian solution that respects the 1967 borders, jerusalem is the capital of both states and both states coexist peacefully and safely. i support calls for political leaders to cooperate and take action to alleviate the tensions that have arisen. i welcome the commitment of the high representative of the union to actively promote a positive process aimed at facilitating real progress in the peace process. i believe that the eu must become a more active player and mediator in the middle east peace process and develop a comprehensive strategy for resolving the israeli-palestinian conflict.
in writing. i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to promote a policy of industrial production in all member states in order to preserve jobs in the eu. the eu steel industry is currently facing a significant drop in demand, which is leading to a loss of jobs and a decrease in competitiveness. the closure of dairies has resulted in the loss of 60 000 jobs since 2007 and a decrease in production from 210 million tonnes in 2007 to 166 million tonnes in 2013. i believe that an industrial policy action plan is urgently needed to revive european industry on the world market. i support the commission's proposals to study the strategic position of the european steel industry in the world, to develop a comprehensive tool for analysing the steel market, which would provide information on the balance between supply and demand for steel and to report on the main challenges facing the european steel industry, taking into account social, economic and environmental aspects. it is necessary to allocate part of the new investment package to promising long-term infrastructure projects and to innovation linked to large-scale industrial projects.
in writing. i voted for this resolution because it was the one in which parliament spoke about the protection of workers and industry in the eu steel sector. the resolution stressed that the steel industry in europe is vital for economic growth and prosperity, but that it is currently experiencing a significant drop in demand, leading to a loss of jobs and a decline in competitiveness, which unfortunately does not bode well for the recovery of the european economy. parliament also called on the commission to speed up the work on the industrial policy action plan, which should be published in the first half of 2015, in order to revive the competitiveness of european industry on the global market and ensure an effective level playing field, while ensuring high social and environmental standards in the eu.
in writing. the eu steel sector is a major source of employment, creating 350 000 direct jobs and several million jobs in related industrial sectors, including the supply chain for products for processing. support to the steel sector is of great importance, including the strategic development of new core steel-using sectors such as energy, transport, construction. i support this document primarily because it is about developing and promoting innovation, not only by supporting research and development and the transfer of knowledge, but also by promoting market access and innovation clusters, by encouraging public-private partnerships in strategic sectors such as the steel industry.
in writing. i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to address the issue of strengthening the eu's border policy and security and promote solidarity between member states in the area of asylum. at least 3 072 people died in the mediterranean in the first nine months of 2014. this further demonstrates the importance of member states taking action to save lives at risk and to fulfil their international obligations in the field of rescue at sea. i agree that the eu must assume its fair share of responsibility and solidarity towards the member states receiving the highest numbers of migrants and asylum seekers. it is also important to reconsider the issue of strengthening border policies and security, and to consider how to improve the future role of frontex and the european asylum support office. i agree with the need to apply criminal sanctions against trafficking in human beings and smuggling of migrants and to examine the whole strategy of cooperation with third countries in terms of humanitarian, financial and political assistance.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution because it deplores the tragic deaths in the mediterranean off lampedusa, where at least 3 072 people lost their lives in the mediterranean in the first nine months of 2014. in the resolution, parliament also calls on all eu member states to shoulder their fair share of responsibility and solidarity towards the member states receiving the highest numbers of migrants and asylum seekers. the resolution also states that it is necessary to consider strengthening border policy and security issues, as well as to consider how to improve the future role of frontex and the european asylum support office (easo).
in writing. the lampedusa tragedy has revealed the flows and scale of immigration. so we need to talk nonstop about legal migration and its ways, about the implementation of asylum policy. human life and its preservation, and therefore member states must do everything possible to avoid similar catastrophes at sea. according to the international organisation for migration, at least 3 072 people died in the mediterranean in the first nine months of 2014, and we must do everything we can to reduce these numbers as much as possible and to ensure that all member states act in a coordinated way in managing migration flows.
mr president, tomorrow’s ratification will mark an historic move for future georgia-eu relations. the country which is furthest to the east remains committed to its european choice, made back in 2003. i would also like to emphasise the remarkable trust in the eu by the georgian people. a lasting commitment to a european course is of utmost importance in overcoming the remaining pressures from russia. the so-called russian-abkhazian partnership alliance is yet another attempt to legalise the annexation of georgian territory. it has to be deplored. the ratification of the association agreement is not a christmas gift for georgia. it is a huge task that will require both good skills and solid speed from the georgian authorities. for instance, in 2015 the legal harmonisation will embark on some 72 legislative initiatives. equally, georgia is expected to continue with democratic reforms, strengthen the market economy, and increase the living standards of its people. we also expect the georgian judicial system to pass the test of being transparent and independent, and it must not be misused against political opponents. georgia needs national reconciliation no less than it needs legal approximation. here too, europe is going to be both a cooperative and a demanding partner. i wish georgia a happy new year.
mr president, tomorrow, with the ratification of the association agreement with georgia, the eu marks the final step towards the commitment it gave more than a year ago at the vilnius summit. the european union promised that the three countries that matched the criteria would be able to come one step closer to the eu: georgia was one of the first and most active countries from the region to set itself on the european path, and it has paid a steep price for its choice. despite everything today, we should proudly rejoice that we have reached this important landmark. however, there are still some alarming developments. people who laid the foundation for the georgia-euro-atlantic path are being persecuted on political motives, and georgia is increasingly demonstrating indications of selective justice. the current government should note that this has been taken into account very seriously here in parliament. georgia has to stay on the reform track, while not allowing the erosion of democratic achievements which took it a considerable number of years to reach. it should be clear that the political elite of the country has to stay united when it comes to euro-atlantic integration, the rule of law and the independence of the judicial system. only when these conditions are met can the real georgian dream come true and not evaporate as an empty promise.
first of all, i would like to congratulate my colleague mr mamikins on a very important document. georgia became the third eastern partnership country, after ukraine and moldova, to conclude an association agreement with the european union. this is a very important step forward in the development of relations between the european union and georgia and this association agreement confirms georgia's commitment to pursue political and economic integration. we all know that the eastern partnership countries have had and still have to face many difficulties in their decision-making, and i commend georgia for choosing the path of european integration despite the difficulties and pressure it has faced. this agreement will be mutually beneficial and in the long term, stronger political and economic ties will ensure greater stability and security in europe and a better life for the people of georgia.
for the ecr group the political and social situation in sudan is becoming increasingly unstable. this country reached a critical point in its history when the state institutions began to use particularly repressive police methods. their aim is to restrict freedom of speech and expression. it also seeks to prohibit free political debate. this activity is illegal. this is in violation of the norms and standards of international law. as a member of the committee on civil liberties, i would like to draw attention to the disturbing incident of the arrest of human rights defender dr medani. the european union must respond strongly to protect the fundamental rights of the sudanese people. persecution for the faith should also be considered. freedom of religion must be guaranteed, it cannot be a reason for persecution. let us send a clear signal, let us not be silent in the face of open discrimination.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution, which aims to prevent the philippines from being granted bls+ status until the commission revokes the yellow card it has been given for illegal fishing. the commission granted them this card after it found that the philippines was not complying with the rules on combating illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. allowing the philippines to join gsp+ would mean allowing fishery products from the philippines to enter eu markets duty-free and without guaranteeing that those products are derived from legal fisheries. i agree with the proposal to wait for a commission decision to withdraw the yellow card granted to the philippines before granting it gsp+ status. this resolution sends a message to eu citizens and fishermen: we cannot accept that the eu faces unfair competition from illegal products.
in writing. in order to ensure a smooth and timely implementation of the bank recovery and resolution directive by 1 january 2015, it is necessary that the national resolution authorities start calculating and collecting contributions to the resolution financing structures by 1 january 2015 at the latest. to achieve this, the regulatory delegated regulation needs to enter into force as early as 2014, so i support this proposal.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution because it seeks to enable the commission to apply effectively the so-called bank recovery and resolution directive. for the purposes of the directive, member states must ensure that contributions are collected at least once a year from the relevant credit institutions and investment firms authorised in their territory. those contributions from credit institutions and investment firms are to be adjusted in line with the risk profile of those institutions and such adjustment can only be made by the commission by means of delegated acts whose adoption has been approved by the european parliament.
in writing. i voted in favour of the conclusion of the association agreement with georgia. this association and free trade agreement aims to strengthen economic and political relations between the european union and georgia. it will be the third such agreement to be ratified by the european parliament with the eu's eastern neighbours. the ep has already ratified a similar treaty with ukraine in september this year and with moldova in november. the establishment of a full free trade area with the eu should increase georgia's market access to the eu economic bloc through binding commitments on standards and common values, while the eu will benefit from smoother trade flows and better investment conditions in georgia. it is important that both parties engage in a constructive dialogue in order to confirm the main reforms and commitments envisaged in the association agreement. the priorities set out in the agreement should be adequately supported technically and financially in order to provide georgia with the means to pursue its democratic and economic reforms.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution because it is a reiteration of the european parliament's support and assistance to georgia, while at the same time endorsing the conclusion of the eu-georgia association agreement on behalf of the european union. in this resolution, parliament warmly welcomed the signing of the association agreement by georgia as an important step forward in the development of bilateral relations and as a commitment to pursue a path of political association and economic integration. the resolution stresses the importance of a constructive dialogue involving all parties in order to adopt the main reforms and commitments contained in the association agreement, based on a common choice to pursue european integration. the resolution also calls on georgia to ensure that reforms are firmly anchored and deeply rooted in the institutional structure in order to create a society of pluralism, non-discrimination, tolerance, justice, solidarity and gender equality.
in writing. — i welcome the association agreement with georgia. following such countries as ukraine and moldova, it marks a turning point for georgia-eu relations. the agreement embodies not only the mutual benefits parties will get from a deep and comprehensive trade area and a common security and defence strategy but most importantly it marks georgia’s commitment to a complex reform and cooperation process, which requires a lot of effort and political will to align georgia’s laws and judiciary to eu legislation and involves public sector reform, in other words measures which will help georgia to keep up with eu standards. i am convinced this agreement will lead to positive developments at all levels of state and civil society in georgia and enhance bilateral eu-georgia relations, providing georgia with a modern european perspective.
in writing. i voted in favour of the conclusion of the association agreement with georgia. this association and free trade agreement aims to strengthen economic and political relations between the european union and georgia. it will be the third such agreement to be ratified by the european parliament with the eu's eastern neighbours. the ep has already ratified a similar treaty with ukraine in september this year and with moldova in november. the establishment of a full free trade area with the eu should increase georgia's market access to the eu economic bloc through binding commitments on standards and common values, while the eu will benefit from smoother trade flows and better investment conditions in georgia. it is important that both parties engage in a constructive dialogue in order to confirm the main reforms and commitments envisaged in the association agreement. the priorities set out in the agreement should be adequately supported technically and financially in order to provide georgia with the means to pursue its democratic and economic reforms.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because it gives the european parliament its consent to the conclusion of the eu-georgia association agreement on behalf of the european union. the eu-georgia association agreement is the most effective instrument of bilateral cooperation to help georgia strengthen its political and economic stability, increase its resilience to external threats and respond appropriately to the people's choice to link their future with the european union.
in writing. i strongly support the motion for a resolution and urge my colleague to vote in favour of it. georgia may not be as important economically, but it is a very important outpost of european values in the east. this country has voluntarily chosen the path of european integration and has remained committed to european values even under pressure from russia. the eu's support to georgia is currently limited, but the way georgia is using the eu's good practices to modernise itself is a great example for many other eu partner countries. georgia is one of the clear leaders of the eu's neighbourhood policy and we must support it. i would also like to make a few comments on the text of the resolution. firstly, i think it does not sufficiently address the importance of public information on eu affairs. secondly, while paragraph 43 attempts to suggest a solution to regional economic integration, it unnecessarily ignores the potential of turkey and the eu to encourage economic cooperation with georgia.
