i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i always talk about the subject. i have seen that there is a statement on sexual and reproductive health and rights on the agenda from the european commission. we rejected a report on this just last month because we said that this was subsidiarity. what does a commission statement on this subject, which is none of our business, have to do with the agenda? shouldn't we bring them in? (applause from the centre)
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, on the substance of this reform of public procurement, i will confine myself, with full knowledge of the facts, to the usual thanks, especially to the rapporteur, marc tarabella, with whom it was possible to organize the work in a long and arduous, but friendly and efficient way. one doesn't exclude the other, thankfully. in the end, despite the merits we can draw from this report and despite the positive effects this reform will bring, i am still led to mention one or other problems which, in my opinion, should not be ignored as the european elections approach. we have seen that in a reform of this magnitude, on such a subject, simplification is not easy. i doubt, in the end, that we have simplified much. we have introduced new concepts, we have improved some wording, but i doubt that we have really simplified things for the users of the thing. i am a little sorry about that because i would have preferred to be able, at this stage of the procedure, to say clearly: 'yes, we have simplified'. but there's something else that bothers me a lot more. this procedure in the european legislative bodies took two years. two years in which we have suffered the most painful obstruction from the council. i fear that during the two-year transposition period the representatives of the member states, those who make up the council, will do everything within their national margin of manoeuvre to try to bring their national text back to what they originally advocated in the council. i hope that this will not be the case, because if it is not, then again, it will be the opposite of a simplified text, understandable to all at european level, a text for all the actors. finally, mr president, i must say that we have nevertheless reached good compromises on a difficult subject. i hope that in four years' time someone in the commission will not have the good sense to say: 'now is the time for a new reform'. let's let this one take its course.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not public procurement accounts for almost 20% of the gross national product in europe. so these are huge investment sums. and with this new legislative package, we are making sure that they are used better, and above all that they are used better towards more environmental protection, less wage dumping, fair trade and, above all, innovation. i believe that public procurement should be a driver of innovation in europe, so that we can test new products, new processes in public procurement and thus also pave the way for them to enter the markets. this is a key element for the european economy, and it's great that we had a political consensus here to move from the cheapest to the whole life cycle and thereby help the better products to market. the point is, of course, to keep this bureaucracy, which is still there, as small as possible. we need governments that not only provide the administrative conditions but also invest in continuing training and education. there was this water dossier which has, if i may put it bluntly, polluted the whole directive politically. i am personally glad that millions of citizens have mobilized. and i also want to thank the 5,000 luxembourg citizens who joined right2water in mobilizing against this idea, which was somehow in the room, to privatize water supply. i think that's the last thing we needed.
member of the commission. − madam president, honourable members of parliament, i am a firm believer in open markets, and i see it as one of my main tasks as commissioner for trade to work towards further market openings for eu companies worldwide. the european public procurement sector is one of the most open in the world and should remain so. non-eu companies are welcome to compete on our market, subject to the same conditions as european companies. this stands in sharp contrast to the situation in many third countries. the value of the procurement market in emerging economies is estimated at 20 % of gdp. for china alone, this means more than usd 900 billion; for russia, usd 250 billion; for brazil, usd 246 billion; and for india, usd 182 billion. yet we have no legally-secured market access to these procurement markets at all. the proposal for an international procurement initiative is aimed at ensuring further opportunities and greater fairness for eu businesses competing internationally, to the benefit of growth and jobs. the proposal strikes a careful balance between keeping the eu procurement markets open while providing the eu with additional leverage to try to open foreign procurement markets for eu companies. one should take a long-term view regarding the initiative. procurement policies in major emerging economies are evolving quickly. even companies with long records of fruitful cooperation and joint ventures in third-country markets can be threatened by upcoming protectionist measures. this is not a theoretical threat: india, indonesia, brazil and russia have all recently introduced such protectionist measures. the rather lengthy revision of the government procurement agreement (gpa) has shown how difficult it was to reduce the gap in market access commitments. in bilateral free trade agreements (ftas) there is rather more room for manoeuvre because of possible trade-offs between various sectors. but cross sectoral trade-offs remain difficult in practice, and our trading partners should not take our openness for granted and should look for concessions elsewhere in return for opening their procurement markets. moreover, certain important countries are covered neither by the gpa nor by an fta at all. we are currently involved in very important trade negotiations, and we need to be fully equipped to handle these. the proposed instrument would be an important addition to our toolbox. we seem to agree on the need for the adoption of such an instrument, and this is very good. i remain persuaded of the usefulness of the commission’s proposal, but this does not mean that it is written in stone. on the contrary, there is a need to engage fully in a process where the merit of the different tools we proposed is examined and where amendments could be introduced. i remain fully committed to such efforts to make the procurement initiative as well-balanced and efficient as possible, and i therefore warmly welcome parliament’s support. i am also fully open to consider the suggestions the council may have, and i am confident that we can reach a solution acceptable to all and create the tool for leverage in the negotiations that we really need.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. - madam president, commissioner, i would like to make two brief points on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. firstly, we have tried, with my colleagues in the committee on international trade, to bring this text into line as far as possible with the new provisions we are about to adopt on public procurement and concessions. we have achieved this and the cohesion of the legislative arsenal at our disposal is being strengthened. secondly, and my colleague mr caspary referred to this, there were reservations about the need for such a text, particularly within the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. i believe that the reluctance we are currently witnessing in the council is the best proof that, in order to establish the european union's exclusive competence in trade policy, we also need an instrument like this, through which we can encourage others to reconsider their barriers, provided that we do not oppose them in this area.
mr president, i have already seen a lot of aberrations in this parliament, but to want to base european legislation on the false premise that pollen is not a natural component of honey is beyond my imagination. let's not get carried away. i've been talking to a lot of beekeepers in the last few days. they are of course divided on whether to label the presence of gmos in honey but the vast majority understood the arguments that the rapporteur, the commissioner, all my colleagues, mrs sommer, mrs klaß, have clearly made about the absurdity of such labelling. ladies and gentlemen, i have been the permanent rapporteur on the situation of beekeeping in the european union since 1994. i didn't get all of it. what i have proposed in my many reports over the last twenty years to maintain enough beekeepers in europe is for the right reasons, which you all know: bee pollination is indispensable and irreplaceable! however, some colleagues seem to be unaware that it is difficult, if not impossible, to prevent bees from pollinating certain crops. they can, of course, put up signs saying "beware of gmos, bees abstain", but i don't think that's going to work. the court of justice was cited because it is trying to make us understand that pollen is an ingredient of honey. i know many more beekeepers than i know judges at the european court of justice, and beekeepers have confirmed to me the natural presence of pollen from the honey bee's prey. for those, mr president, who, against all reason, want this aberrant labelling, it is clear that they are not interested in bees or the health of honey consumers but are taking the honey issue hostage to preach their anti-gmo religion.
madam president, mr prime minister, i would like to welcome you as president of the council. i would also like to welcome greece to the helm of the european union. there were many who thought that greece could not assume the presidency at this time and under these difficult circumstances. but europe is functioning normally and greece is functioning normally. this is the right time and these are the right conditions for greece to make a positive contribution to europe. madam president, the prime minister has insisted on the need to find again what binds us together and what makes us move forward together. we know that the greek presidency will soon be punctuated by a european election where exactly those forces which want to drive us apart threaten to score considerable successes. they might succeed in winning additional votes, but they must not succeed in bringing the european adventure to a halt and in driving us apart. i hope that it will be precisely the greek presidency that gives us new signs of hope and new views and new visions for a future that we will face together.
the question is "blue cardboard". we are all in favour of simple and rapid procedures. i am not a member of the legal affairs committee, but i would like to know if i have understood mrs niebler correctly. because if the report, as adopted in committee, were to be adopted here, it would endanger legal certainty in the european union by increasing the risk of falsification and by reducing the integrity of the registers. am i getting this right? if we do not vote for mrs niebler's amendments, we run the risk of doing so. i think that the members should understand that. this is very important. i'd like to know if i've understood mrs. niebler correctly.
mr president, the saying goes that 'there is no worse deaf than he who does not want to hear'. i must say that both mr venizelos and mr šemeta have proved by their speeches at the beginning that they are perfectly among this species of deaf people. as the famous financial transaction tax is being debated for the fourth time in this house, is it not surprising that the european union is not much further along than it was three years ago, despite all the declarations of intent from many stakeholders? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the tax on financial transactions is not applied in the member states. it is only by reading the legal opinion of the council's services, which are not the expression of any lobby, that one can understand the extent of the problem, namely the distortions of the single market, the incompatibilities with the provisions of the treaty and the excessive power of the states. these are not minor accusations; they are devastating. that is why i am very much in awe of the european commission's phlegm, which continues as if nothing had happened, by claiming that the extraterritoriality which is at the basis of this proposal cannot be called into question. i also admire all those who continue to see the enhanced cooperation procedure as a convenient way of circumventing the difficulties and involving the 28 member states in one way or another. the political will cannot ignore realities such as the integration of the single market and financial markets, the competitiveness of our continent or even international law. in conclusion, mr president, if the financial transaction tax is to be introduced, the substantive objections will have to be answered consistently because there is no point in acting as if. it won't move the lines. if there is anything urgent, mr president, it is that mr šemeta, the council and many of their colleagues here finally understand that they are wrong and that the financial transaction tax will not be the solution to all their problems.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i should like to begin by congratulating the commission on this initiative and on its proposal to adapt air passenger rights to the changing times. the current situation is, as we know, extremely unsatisfactory. the creation and maintenance of air passenger rights is a matter of great importance to the citizens of europe. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council and the council, and the council is to be consulted on the proposal. this revision will significantly improve the current situation for several million citizens by adding additional rights, but above all by making it easier for passengers to be informed about their rights and to exercise them. i have drawn on the many court decisions of recent years, consulted studies, received and listened to countless aviation stakeholders and passenger representatives. it is particularly important to me to have clear rules that are understandable, and for that reason i have included various additional definitions in the commission proposal. we also looked at where different airlines had exploited loopholes or boycotted existing rules. and here we have a lock on it. this was very often the case in exceptional circumstances linked to technical problems. in future, technical problems will only be reported if they are certified as manufacturer's defects. and we insisted on making a final list. we have also made a significant improvement on the commission proposal in the interests of passengers in the area of assistance and care. i have improved the commission's proposal on compensatory payments, the so-called trigger points, because i thought it was too industry-friendly and severely restricted the existing rights of passengers. the commission has already proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of accidents. the complaints procedure has also been improved. in future, airlines will have to meet deadlines and cannot leave a complaint unanswered or delay it for months. the information must be improved. this starts with the booking process, where clear information and price transparency are required, and ends with information and contact points at airports, where competent staff will be required to provide information and take complaints in the future. the commission has also been very active in the field of the promotion of disabled people and persons with reduced mobility. as regards the no-show policy, there should be no refusal of boarding on return flights in future if the passenger has not boarded the outbound flight. we have also made proposals on insolvency. and as regards connecting flights, the commission has in its proposal laid the responsibility for the delayed connecting flight on the company responsible and has considered the delay at the final destination as decisive. we want to maintain this principle. we also wanted to have clear rules about carrying hand luggage. we therefore want to see a ban on the one-bag rule in future. we call for greater powers for national enforcement authorities and effective sanctions in the event of violations of passenger rights. finally, i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs of the other groups for their good cooperation and to emphasize in particular the good cooperation with the rapporteur of the imco committee and i look forward to the following debate!
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, i would like to thank honourable members very much for this debate and their useful work. i look forward to continuing this constructive exchange with parliament. as the next step, the commission hopes that the council will soon be able to define its own position on this essential piece of legislation, so that inter-institutional negotiations can start shortly after the european elections. i must say, in my concluding remarks, that the commission’s view is that the current revision of the passenger rights regulation is a substantial improvement for passengers – clearer, more precise and more enforceable – all based on our experience obtained during the ash cloud crisis. i would also like to say that we have looked for a balance between passenger rights and airlines’ interests, because airlines are operating in a very difficult environment at the present time and are not passengers’ enemies. they also want to transport passengers and earn their revenue from this, so it must be balanced. in our view, what we have mostly tried to avoid is the cancellation of flights, which is the worst thing that can happen both to passengers and to airlines. sending passengers home or taking them where they want to go has been our main priority during the discussions and the preparation of this proposal.
the commission has already done so. i thank all my colleagues for their broad support. we wanted to be ambitious, to make a bold report, and we succeeded. the council's performance so far is disappointing. i hope, as commissioner kallas does, that the council will now be more ambitious and address this dossier in the interests of passengers. some airlines have already responded to our requests. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. and i think that's a good thing. the debate here was very enlightening. i would just like to comment on a few points which i was unable to raise earlier. i don't really like the high cost of airlines. as i said, only 2% of passengers receive compensation and the airlines' balance sheets do not even show the item of compensation for passengers. i am glad to hear from my colleagues that they also attach great importance to the extrajudicial possibilities, but i have concerns and i will work to ensure that this does not supplant the judicial procedure. musical instruments: yes, i have been doing that for a long time. i didn't have time to go over the redirects and the contingency plans. i think you have to look at this as a package deal, and rerouting and contingency plans are also a big step in the direction of passengers. the fact that the three hours will lead to more cancellations is, in my view, unfounded. i think the airlines are very well positioned and they are organized in a network. smaller problems can be solved within three hours. thank you again for your support, and i look forward to working with you! (applause from the centre)
in writing. by overloading the boat with contradictory and exaggerated demands, the committee on women's rights has once again missed the opportunity to produce a report that could have helped to solve the problems of undocumented migrant women in the european union. an incorrigible majority of this committee has produced a text which, in order to avoid so-called discrimination against undocumented migrant women, creates discrimination against men and, what is more, against legal citizens with papers. if the european commission and the member states were to follow certain demands in this report, they would grant more rights and benefits to undocumented illegal migrants than to legal residents. they would play into the hands of the odious smugglers who exploit these poor people, men and women, who want to escape the misery in their home countries, by telling them that in europe it will be paradise, without papers, without qualifications. to illustrate the inconsistency of large parts of this report, i will quote recital a, which states that undocumented women are vulnerable to passport confiscation. how can we confiscate papers from those who don't have them? no one is obliged to do the impossible, not even the member states. that is why i did not vote for this report.
mr president, i would like to reassure mr stoyanov right away. during the mission of this parliament to bulgaria two weeks ago, one of the first things we could see was that foreign hordes are not invading bulgaria to stay. most of these people would like to return home or go to other member states of the european union. because it is true that the reception conditions in bulgaria, mr kirilov - and some people dislike this - have only recently reached a level that is at least acceptable, and this is obviously also due to international pressure. i am not saying that the european parliament should be the only institution in the world to have a right to vote. we are talking about turkey. in turkey, there are 700,000 syrians 700,000! who fled their country! there are millions of syrians who are displaced within their own country. there are also 700 000 or 750 000 in lebanon who have fled their homes because of the war. and bulgaria is getting pinned down because it is not able to handle more or less reasonably a few thousand syrian refugees, while other european countries are saying they are ready to accept 50, 500, 1,000? what are we going to do when there are 100,000 syrians on the run? what are we going to do when there are 200,000 syrians on the run? will we finally have a european policy aimed at a humane reception of these people who might be able to move? i note that the council, in its usual wisdom, is merely postponing and shifting the matter. it's the best thing he can do. this will not solve the problem we will face if there is a resurgence of migration flows.
in writing. i voted against the delvaux report because it does not provide a realistic framework for climate and energy policies for 2030. it is a report with no legal consequences, practically unreadable to the citizen, and which advocates everything and its opposite. with shifting and sometimes narrow majorities, parliament has voted for ambitious but unrealistic targets. for renewable energy, for and against nuclear energy, for and against shale gas. it is a report for the great garbage of parliament, which wastes its time in ideological debates instead of concentrating on its legislative work.
in writing. at a time when the european commission is pointing to further delays by large member states in their fiscal consolidation efforts, the vote on the backer annual growth survey 2014 is of particular importance. although not a simple one, the european semester mechanism is an essential instrument for ensuring the convergence of economic policies in emu. after the existential crises that the euro has experienced, it is imperative to give the european commission the means to ensure that the rules and commitments entered into by the states are respected. the single currency could not withstand any cuts to commonly defined standards in the long term. fiscal consolidation in the individual member states is an essential prerequisite, but will not in itself ensure the long-awaited return to growth. it is logical that the bakker report should emphasize the structural reforms which must be undertaken in each member state, but according to a commonly defined strategy. whether it is budgetary policy or structural reform, the commission is called upon to play a role of almost binding force. i pray that the building proves its strength and efficiency. the future of the euro is at stake.
mr president, mr vice-president kallas, you are very welcome. we are in agreement on the objective of the fourth railway package: we want to bring more traffic on the railways. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the commission's proposal is based on a single model and on competition alone. i have always been in favour of a diversity of models, where access must be of course non-discriminatory, where the allocation of routes must be neutral, where the fees must be regulated and everything must be monitored by strong regulators - in short, where different models that meet these criteria must have their place. the commission has not been prepared to go along with this approach. i am particularly disappointed, however, that your proposal has little regard for the workers in the sector and the social aspects. fortunately, we as a parliament have made considerable progress on the transport committee and the employment committee. i believe that working conditions are an essential aspect of a well-functioning labour market. i think it is essential for the pso proposal that direct award should continue to be possible in the future. as regards the technical files, i would point out that the already high level of security still needs to be improved. i would like to congratulate all the rapporteurs and shadow rapporteurs who have worked in this direction. it is important to me that more powers are located at european level, that there is a clear division of powers with the national authorities and that there is a clear division of responsibilities. it is also important that the valuable work of the employees is recognised and that the working conditions, i.e. the working and rest periods, are regulated and monitored. because this is an important factor of security. this includes the just culture, where situations that could lead to accidents can be presented early without fear. in conclusion, i believe that the proposals on the technical dossiers will help the railways to move forward. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the railways are not subject to the same rules as the railways in the community.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not i don't want to read that text. you'll find it in your files. we have just voted on the cramer report on security, and here i am tabled amendment no 76, which is supposed to bring coherence between the security report and the report by michael cramer.
in writing. i voted against the directive introducing the opening of the passenger transport market. the commission is gravely mistaken when it advocates free competition while seeking to break up existing national structures. public transport will never be a market where market forces can be used. if the latter were allowed to continue, many areas would no longer be served by public transport because it is "unprofitable". i voted for the more technical directives, particularly in favour of interoperability.
in writing. the member states of the european union all have different approaches to prostitution, and i believe that the legislation on prostitution should remain within the competence of the member states. i have nevertheless co-signed the compromise amendments so that this owninitiative report makes a distinction between prostitution and forced prostitution. it is important to respect the choice of some people who decide to work in this sector, but it is equally important to fight against human trafficking and forced prostitution. the nordic model is not the only option in the fight against trafficking. that is why i voted against the articles which advocate the criminalisation of customers as a model for all member states to follow.
mr president, i should like to begin by also thanking the rapporteur, mr louis michel, for his draft report. all those who, like me, had the pleasure of seeing him at work, when, as president of the acp-eu joint assembly, he tried to convince a group of worthy african leaders, but not very receptive to a number of ideas, of the need to finally recognize the rights of homosexual persons. for example, i know how much louis michel cares about these things and, i also suppose, what values guide him. i have heard a lot about values recently in this debate. i will tell you this: one of my core values, at least in politics, is that we should not take the state hostage to make sure that constitutions become exact copies of electoral programmes. i regret to say that in a growing number of member states, which are governed by all sorts of coalitions, this is not the prerogative of the left, nor of the right. there is a growing tendency to make the constitution reflect the personal and intimate beliefs of the rulers of the day. this is a flagrant breach of the principle of the impartiality of the state - the impartiality which alone, in the end, can guarantee the constant and unchanging respect of the rights of citizens. and as long as this trend persists in the european union, wherever it occurs, it is with the utmost urgency that we must have debates like this, and that we must adopt reports like that of my colleague, and yet friend, louis michel.
in writing. the tobacco directive is the result of a lame compromise between a commission which proposed a patchy and bureaucratic regulation (even imposing the use of helvetica characters throughout europe), an orgy of bans voted by the taliban in the committee on the environment and health, and the vacillating of member states, torn between the imperatives of public health and the protection of their markets. the directive aims to create a single market for tobacco products, while allowing member states to impose national rules and restrictions on cross-border trade. the directive is also wrong about e-cigarettes. this is obviously not a drug, but perhaps a means of enabling smokers to quit. the electronic cigarette, far less harmful than tobacco, would have deserved a separate directive. for all these reasons, i voted against the directive.
in writing. - i am very sorry that we did not reject this crude compromise with additional craftsmanship errors in the committee, also because the compromise text was not only changed linguistically but also in content by the linguistic lawyers. this is unreasonable. i also caution against the precedent of legal services changing the content of a trilogy result afterwards. i have not voted for this text because, under the pretext of reducing cancer by means of deterrent packaging, it will in particular make it impossible for small and mediumsized enterprises to survive by means of excessive requirements which have nothing to do with deterrence. i'm not a smoker. i would prefer, however, that smokers consume european products rather than illegal tobacco products from third countries, which are not taxed. we have already driven too many industrial enterprises out of europe with excessive regulations. i am a firm believer in the principle of subsidiarity. if heintz van landewyck is deregulated in luxembourg, we will lose a few hundred jobs, mostly single women, for whom there are currently no alternative employment opportunities. i have of course voted against this report for these very good reasons.
in writing. i refused to take part in the vote on the report on 'women and fisheries'. i am a supporter of equal rights and equal opportunities for women and men. however, the need to combat all discrimination against women does not justify such inefficiencies as, for example, 'urges the commission to recognise that the work of women contributes to improving the traceability of fishery products'. mystery of the day!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. commissioner, more than 7 000 citizens in luxembourg have already written to you and are demanding the same thing as the members of parliament: this proposal for a regulation must be withdrawn! why would you do that? because the citizens are rightly afraid that your law will not protect various fruit and vegetable varieties in luxembourg from extinction, secondly that our organic farmers in luxembourg will not be able to make various advances because of unnecessary barriers that will be put in place, and thirdly that the medium-sized seed producers - we have just three in luxembourg - will be further pressured by this eu law and eventually disappear from the market. the same is true of a parallel law which is in force on how the controls in this sector are to be paid. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this, but i am saying that it should be involved in the work of the european parliament.
mr president, i must say that, like the rapporteur, i do not only see the holes in the cheese in the performance and work of the european authorities. in fact, from the very first exchange of views on this own-initiative report, seven months ago, i had doubts about the usefulness of this exercise, particularly because the european commission was due to present its report on the functioning of the three supervisory authorities created in 2010 in january this year. moreover, it should be known and not forgotten that european supervision itself is undergoing a major transformation with the increased role of the european central bank in the banking union under construction. in my view, it is not for the european parliament, as a full-fledged co-legislator, to put forward a text which is more like another consultant's report in that it is too pointillist. with its 25 references, 79 recitals, 4 articles, 78 recommendations and 15 questions to the european commission, this report is becoming illegible and unintelligible. i would like to say, mr president, that there is no fundamental misunderstanding between the political groups, but i am still very much in favour of form. it is not in the interests of parliament.
mr president, i am glad that this directive proved to be rather consensual among the groups of this house. this proves that, in europe, we do not actually disagree on the necessity of eliminating money laundering, which means the laundering of proceeds from activities far worse than the money laundering itself. even though we had a small hiccup in the sense that it took some time and conviction to include the british trust instrument, i am nonetheless glad that we did, because at the end of the day any sort of corporate structures – and this can be likened to a corporate structure – can be abused for money laundering, and anything that can be abused for money laundering has to be included in these endeavours. but our problem is not really in the european union; our problem is that a number of territories – some very friendly to us, at least nominally – continue to do exactly as they please in terms of acting like financial centres and, indeed, being launderettes. i am talking about british crown dependencies, which are, apparently, independent of the will of mr cameron, who speaks out very loudly for all sort of transparency but seems to be rather unable to contain anything that his boys and girls do in the channel islands, the british virgin islands or territories more exotic than these. i am talking about the half-dozen or so full offshore jurisdictions contained within the united states of america. we do not have any sort of influence on what happens to money that ends up there or on what sort of money gets out of there. furthermore, we will never be able – whether the register is public or not – to find out who is behind structures there, because they will never yield any information about beneficial ownership, in contrast to what european union jurisdictions have been doing for years. so let us now focus our efforts on convincing all those who are not yet convinced that our approach is right. that also means talking very seriously to friends.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the prevention of money laundering, which is a bit 'death to the soul'. i have the impression that, in the laudable attempt to combat money laundering, but under the pretext of full transparency, obligations are being imposed which risk discouraging companies or entities with money laundering from investing in the european union. it is essential to avoid such a consequence, which could result, inter alia, from the provisions relating to the centralised public register.
in writing. every year, the femm committee prepares an own-initiative report on equality between men and women in the european union. this year's report is even more indigestible and therefore more difficult to read than usual. it is all about austerity and economic crisis, and it is very ideological, even populist. the epp has drawn up an alternative report, which reduces the report from 35 to 19 items, from 46 to 23 recitals and from 88 to 34 paragraphs, making it much more readable and structured, eliminating repetition, contradictions and topics that have no place in it. i would like to remind you that fortunately we have in the union an arsenal of 12 directives adopted since 1975 on equal treatment for men and women, which have proved their worth, especially in my country. but we still have to apply them and take advantage of them. i voted for the alternative resolution by the epp group and against the report adopted by the femm committee by a small majority of 13 votes in favour, 8 against and 2 abstentions.
in writing. - the financial crisis has shown that inadequate risk management and inefficient market surveillance can cause instability and lack of consumer protection in financial services. the european parliament therefore voted in favour of the establishment of the european supervisory authorities (esas) by giving them powers of coordination and direct supervision. the establishment of the european system of financial supervision (esfs) also improves the quality and consistency of financial supervision in the internal market and represents an evolutionary process on which the members of the supervisory committee need to focus in order to support the values and interests of the union.
in writing. as i said yesterday, i had doubts about the value of this own-initiative report because the european commission was due to present its report on the functioning of the three supervisory authorities created in 2010 in january this year and because european supervision itself is in the midst of a major upheaval with the ecb's increased role in the banking union under construction. it is not for the european parliament as a full-fledged co-legislator to draw up this type of report which is too pointillist. with its 25 references, 79 recitals and 4 articles, plus an annex containing 78 recommendations and 15 questions to the european commission, it is becoming illegible and hardly intelligible! in the end, however, there is no gap of misunderstanding between the political groups. we have stuck to our 2010 line of asking for more powers for the european supervisory authorities, but this is an evolving process. i would like to stress above all that there is no question of cutting off the european systemic risk board from the ecb. i voted in favour of the report. i'm still unsatisfied with the form, but i can live with what's left of the bottom. it is for the next parliament to decide what the european commission will accept as a proposal to revise the 2010 legislation.
in writing. i voted against the resolution on the commission's delegated regulation on manufactured nanomaterials. parliament, as usual, wants to go further in the so-called consumer protection. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal. the many scientific studies on the potential effects of manufactured nanomaterials have not concluded that they are dangerous. but since the 'precautionary principle' has established immovability as a principle, parliament demands a threshold value of less than 10%, instead of the 50% proposed by the commission. parliament cannot explain the threshold chosen, but refers to a german study indicating that nanomaterials are "least well accepted in food" by the population. when you don't know, you can always scare!
in writing. i voted against the proposal to create a european public prosecutor's office at this stage. the european parliament, as usual, sees in this an opportunity to increase its powers. the political nature of the appointment of the european prosecutor and his delegates by parliament is unlikely to be in the interest of the proper administration of european justice. in addition, it is doubtful whether the creation of a single european public prosecutor's office is appropriate in the absence of european criminal law and procedure and in the absence of a european criminal court.
member of the commission. - madam president, i would like to thank mr deva for his report on the role of property rights, property ownership and wealth creation in reducing poverty and fostering development. he has told us his story. i can tell you my story. i was, at the beginning of the transition to the post-communist world, responsible for restoring property rights. this is not only about restoring the rule of law, but also about the perception of and respect for property rights. this was essential for the development of what was previously a communist part of the world. so i fully agree that this is a very timely report, but it is essential in overcoming the difficulties of the developing world. this is why, as early as 2004, the european union developed land policy guidelines to support the drafting of land policies. we are supporting all the major actors on the world arena, such as the fao, the african land policy initiative (lpi) and the international land coalition. we have also launched the land governance programme for sub-saharan africa, covering ten countries and supporting the continental process led by the african union. this also concerns the 2013 g8 land transparency initiative, but this is all well known to you. from the budgetary point of view, our guidelines should now be backed up with some development aid over the period from 2014 to 2020. this is on the basis of the national indicative programmes proposed by the delegations in more than 50 countries. this should fulfil our commitment to the global alliance for resilience initiative (agir) in the sahel (eur[nbsp ]1.5 billion) and to nutrition (eur[nbsp ]3.5 billion). this increased focus gives further sense to the attention we attach to development. once again – also given my personal experience – i congratulate you on this timely report, which focuses on what is really essential to reduce poverty and foster sustainable development in the so-called developing part of the world. we are happy to share with you the organisation of the conference on property rights and land tenure of 9[nbsp ]april[nbsp ]2014.
the rapporteur. - madam president, the committee on development considered it useful, from the beginning of this parliamentary term, to provide for a permanent rapporteur on policy coherence. our colleagues franziska keller and birgit schnieber-jastram have, each in their own way, made a key contribution to the path towards greater coherence, mrs keller by launching the idea of the permanent rapporteur and mrs schnieber-jastram by presenting the first report on the topic of coherence. so my speech this morning is in line with the path traced by my two colleagues. what our reports have in common is the continuous search for real progress in development, taking care to refrain from any action or approach that could produce an impact contrary to that intended by development policy. if we are on the one hand urging the countries of the south to develop food agriculture, we cannot succeed if we are on the other hand encouraging them to produce more and more plant material to meet our energy needs. we could multiply the examples of policy inconsistencies by referring to the texts of previous rapporteurs. the report i am presenting to you today is different from the other two, however, in that it deals with the changes that need to be made to our method, to our decision-making processes, in short, to governance. what should be done if the intended impact of a development project or programme is seriously called into question by a political decision in another area? are we going to let this go? will we be left with no political reaction to this state of affairs? if so, there is no need to renew the post of permanent rapporteur on policy coherence beyond this parliamentary term. if not, however, we will have to adapt our decisionmaking mechanisms, both at the commission and the european parliament. this report therefore addresses the obstacles to policy coherence. it should be noted at the outset that the commission's working document on policy coherence for development is already giving rise to some initial criticism. we were expecting a communication - i mean, a communication - from the commission on this problem, the merit of which would have been to involve the whole commission. the commission's proposal for a resolution also provides for the establishment of an arbitration mechanism entrusted to the president of the commission. the commission would be responsible for taking decisions on the basis of the commitments made by the union in the field of cohesion policy. it goes without saying that the principle of arbitration, as described, should also be applied at the level of the member states. finally, and i should have started there, the european parliament could set a good example by using all the instruments and procedures at its disposal to strengthen its own coherence in this area. more frequent meetings with representatives of national parliaments will therefore be essential, since european development policy is designed and implemented by the union and the 28 member states. it is by focusing on these essential issues in the context of this report that the european parliament's committee on development believes that the objectives of development policy are best served. by the way, this also seems to me to be the approach most in keeping with the spirit of the lisbon treaty.
madam president, we might have thought that we had got through the worst of the economic crisis in europe and we would have welcomed it, but at the very moment when we seemed to see a light at the end of the tunnel, we also see that our democracy is far from secure and is safe everywhere and for the benefit of all. that is why the strengthening of the european area of justice, freedom and the rule of law is a matter of urgency and a clear need for this parliament. it is above all a question of ensuring that the weakest members of our societies are not penalized by the kind of withdrawal that is not only manifested by certain populists in this house but also rages in the electoral campaigns that are about to take place. asylum seekers and migrants[nbsp ] often involuntary[nbsp ] are categories of people who need our continued protection. if europe is no longer protecting them, i fear there are places where they will not be given much protection. i also welcome, in this context, the fact that the commission has presented us with a draft of what will become a mechanism for safeguarding the copenhagen criteria, the criteria for accession to the union, which all the states which are already members of the union will have to continue to respect in the future. it is not possible for electoral programmes to be transformed into constitutional principles in some places. i would like to conclude by saying to the council that adopting strategic guidelines when there is no longer a parliament is not a particularly dignified institutional posture.
the question is "blue cardboard". mr president, i would like to ask the honourable member if he is aware that a british woman has been heading the european external action service for the last five years and that when we are dealing with the question of foreign affairs and the influence of the united kingdom, we cannot leave this aspect out.
mr president, everything has been said and said about the current crises. my point, however, is about the authority and respect which should naturally be given to the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. the authorities of the member states could help to strengthen respect for the office of the high representative by refusing to interfere in mrs ashton's work and by standing behind her and her policy, rather than trying to eclipse her from the front of the stage. it is our responsibility to defend the authority of her office by indicating, where appropriate, to foreign powers that it is the high representative who speaks in our name and not the one or the one whose leaders want to impose on us. if we could at least agree on this, we would have already taken a big step forward, starting, for example, with this attitude in the context of the ukrainian crisis.
in writing. i voted against the commission's proposals, which continue to propose unilateral european measures to combat co2 emissions on the pretext that europe must assert its 'leadership' in climate policy. the problem is that the rest of the world refuses to follow european aviation policy. the european union is already the only one to be bound by the kyoto agreements. the united states, china, india never signed them. canada, japan, russia and new zealand have withdrawn from kyoto. the kyoto agreements exclude the aviation and maritime sectors anyway. moreover, 59 countries, including china, india and many others, refuse to pay for european "remittances". the united states has even passed a law prohibiting its airlines from paying european taxes.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the creation of a single telecommunications market. the latter will lead to the abolition of all so-called 'roaming' charges in december 2015. i was the socialist group's negotiator for the first two directives which led to a gradual limitation of charges on cross-border communications. as the telecommunications market is dominated by 4 large groups, which are present in all countries, it was penalizing for consumers to maintain national borders for mobile telephony for the sole benefit of operators. at the end of 2015, this scam will be brought to a final end thanks to the european parliament.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, honourable members, alternative fuels are very important for the future of european transport. consumers, transport businesses and manufacturers need certainty that enough refuelling and recharging points will soon become available. the directive for alternative fuels infrastructure is designed to address this need. i am certain that the directive will stimulate technological development and boost the market uptake of cleaner vehicles and vessels. the european parliament has supported the commission in its work from the very start. i would like to express my thanks particularly to the rapporteur mr fidanza and also mr ertug and colleagues. i regret that together we could not convince the council to accept a more ambitious text, especially where the infrastructure objectives are concerned. but we can still be satisfied with the outcome, for the following reasons. firstly, the text requires member states to set targets for making infrastructure available for the most common alternative fuels. the commission will make sure that these targets are sufficiently ambitious and effectively met. for electric vehicles, charging points and cng infrastructures in urban agglomerations, a deadline of 2020 could be preserved. in all other cases, the deadlines are set for 2025, which is in fact five years later than the commission and parliament would have preferred. however, the dates agreed still provide a reasonable time frame and the necessary reliability for planning purposes. it is only when it comes to lng for maritime vessels that the commission has a real regret, because an earlier date would have helped the shipping industry to meet the new limits for sulphur emissions. the commission is going to make a declaration to state its opinion on this important aspect. the standardisation of plugs and other equipment means huge benefits. vehicles and vessels will be able to circulate throughout the eu; manufacturers and infrastructure providers will know which plug to choose, and costs will be reduced through economies of scale. at the same time, early movers will be protected by transitional rules; this is a real step forward. thirdly, thanks to parliament, rules on user information have been reinforced. in the near future, consumers will be able to compare the price of different alternative fuels against petrol and diesel. before i conclude, with regard to the request of parliament to be invited to expert meetings, an agreement has been found and the commission will make a declaration on this point. many thanks again for your support on this important file.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. i am not saying that we should not be concerned. as has already been said, we are dealing with a very promising dossier. the objective is clear: we must move quickly to become more independent of oil and reduce co2 emissions if we are to achieve the ambitious goals we have set ourselves in europe. and we have to get to them! i therefore welcome the commission's proposal, which has focused on three objectives: firstly, this independence, but secondly also diversification, diversity and security of energy supply. the commission proposal, which has been extended by the rapporteur, whom i should like to congratulate on this point, i believe that the result can be seen. the proposals on common technical specifications and the development of the necessary infrastructure are particularly important. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. keyword: planning certainty for the investments. i hope that the member states, which have been a little more reticent, will also stick to the objective set and draw up these national strategic plans. it seems to me also important that the information be improved. i hope that joint initiatives and campaigns will be launched in this regard. we have had some problems in the past with this subject. i don't think we can afford that anymore, it'll be counterproductive.
i have to say, madam president, the lack of transparency and the overpowering lobby of economic interests are a real problem for democracy at national level, but also at european level. unfortunately, the new interinstitutional agreement does not provide a solution here either, because it has three major weaknesses - even if mr gualtieri's report is a good report. first weakness: the register does not become binding. second weakness: it doesn't capture the lobby in the capitals. we have seen this in a particularly impressive way in the case of 'co2 and cars', when, after a completed mediation procedure, a government intervened and even received donations of a hundred thousand euros from a company concerned. thirdly, the new register does not shed any light on the black hole of lobbying: the law firms. it is simply unacceptable that these best paid lobbyists in brussels - and this will not be without reason - still have loopholes. we need to find a solution here, because otherwise the system will be completely infiltrated. i am also disturbed - and perhaps you can pass this on to the president - that we have here in the house a particularly egregious case of lobbying hidden behind the activities of a lawyer. unfortunately, our president, mr schulz, has been sitting for weeks on a letter which could help to shed some light on this matter, and i hope that mr schulz will find time this week to sign this letter and send it on its way.
the question is "blue cardboard". madam president, i have a question for mr cercas. what does he think of the remarks of madame le pen, who attacks polish workers and others, who work in a country like france?
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, i would first of all like to thank mrs vergiat for introducing the subject with the talent that she is known for, but in my view there are two ways of approaching the problem of the restitution of cultural property which has left the territory of a member state. the first is to remain within the legal framework, without departing one iota from the provisions falling within the union's competence. this is the approach taken by the commission, which respects the principle of subsidiarity. my group - to say it straight away - will vote for the proposal. but there is also a broader, political way to approach the issue of property that has been moved illegally. what about the property that suffered the same fate before 1993 or between 1939 and 1945? recent information has also revealed the existence of public or private collections full of cultural objects acquired, at least, illegally. in these cases, we remain silent on the grounds of incompetence. my discomfort is that i am constantly referred to subsidiarity, which reserves the treatment of this question to the member states. the fact that the european union cannot do anything and that the member states do not want to move - at least some of them - condemns us to impotence in the face of a problem that is nonetheless real. i would therefore ask the commission if it would at least be willing to play a facilitating role, in particular by encouraging the member states to draw up an inventory of jewish property looted during the second world war and to publish this in a central register maintained by the commission. the register should contain the contact details of the public or private owners of the property and the persons or cultural institutions currently in possession of the property. " it is ultimately a moral, ethical issue requiring a moral and ethical solution". this sentence is part of the general conclusions of an own-initiative report of the european parliament and in particular of its committee on legal affairs and the internal market from 2003 on this issue. as far as i know, this conclusion has never been followed up. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8))
answer is "blue cardboard". madam president, that is exactly what i have just said. however, let me remind you - and i said in my opening remarks - that mrs vergiat and her committee are beyond reproach. the committee has dealt with a proposal from the commission, which is also respectful of the law. i would like to extend the debate to the political sphere, to give a political dimension to this problem which you rightly raise and which was already discussed in an own-initiative report by the committee on legal affairs and the internal market in 2003. the rapporteur at the time was mr willy de clercq. i think we should use this report as a basis for a new debate. mrs vergiat's report deals with a real issue, but you are quite right to point out that it does not deal with the whole problem.
madam president, commissioner, the reduction of plastic bags will be a priority of environmental policies. it's not only visual pollution, a waste of resources, but it's also causing the death of thousands of animals, especially seabirds. luxembourg introduced recyclable bags in 2004 and has since charged consumers for single bags. this has reduced plastic bags from 454 tons to 58 tons, a nine-fold reduction! so that was a step forward. but today i support margrete auken in her policy to go further. 58 tonnes of plastic in luxembourg is too much! so we need to take more stringent measures. i think we should go as far as banning plastic bags and not support the plastic lobby, which unfortunately some people in this parliament will do tomorrow.
mr president, the proposal for a directive which we are about to vote on is contrary to all the working rules of our european parliament. according to our rules of procedure, all members are allowed to work in the national language of their choice. the committee on the environment, public health and food safety had decided that it would work only in english on this proposal for a directive. the committee on industry, research and energy, which should have given an opinion, refused to work only in english, so there is no opinion from it at the moment. logically, we should ask the house to refer this text back to committee so that the next parliament can draw up a good text. this directive is also largely a matter of subsidiarity. (applause) i would like to thank
in writing. i voted against the auken report. i am in favour of reducing the consumption of these bags. this is already the case in many countries, including my own, where, without legislative intervention, the trade has organized the disposal and recycling of plastic bags. the commission should have issued a communication on best practice in this area and then left it to subsidiarity to deal with this problem at national level. now we want to force 28 parliaments to legislate. but my opposition is more about form than substance. the committee on the environment, public health and food safety had decided that the legislative work should be done in english. the committee on industry, research and energy opposed this. the envi committee has ignored this and has based itself on the sole decision taken at the level of its committee.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the general budget of the eu for 2012 was eur 148 200 million in commitment appropriations, of which eur 1 718 million was for the budget of the european parliament. this corresponds to just over 1% of the general budget of the european union and is equivalent to 20% of the administrative expenditure of all union institutions for 2012. the court of auditors' audit of the accounts shows that, for administrative expenditure in 2012, all the institutions have made satisfactory use of the supervisory and control systems required by the regulation and we have therefore voted in favour of discharge of the corresponding budget.
in writing. i voted for the report on the discharge for the implementation of the european parliament's budget, despite the paragraphs concerning the seat of the european parliament. the report also mentions the plural form of the word 'seats'. i should like to make a correction: parliament has one seat, strasbourg, and two places of work, brussels and luxembourg. i know that the anti-strasbourgers keep on telling outright lies about the costs of geographical dispersion and the theoretical savings that would result from a single seat. but since they think that the single seat should be brussels, they are obviously unaware that the cost of the buildings to be built in brussels, which would be needed for the single seat, would exceed two billion euros, apart from the fact that there is no land available to expand the existing buildings in brussels. as regards the voluntary pension fund, there is concern about the estimated actuarial deficit, but there is no mention of the fact that the actuarial deficit for the pensions allocated to french and italian members of parliament, by decision of the 1970s, is greater. i know that colleagues have managed to eliminate even more considerable inconsistencies in this report. things being what they are, i have nevertheless been determined to expose the most aberrant of them.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, the cost of intervention is a good indicator of the seriousness of the problem under discussion. the crises we face are surprising in their duration and in their scale. the situation in the central african republic, as well as the conflicts in south sudan, not to mention syria, mean that the european union must devote more funds to responding to these crises. but let us be realistic, the sums requested are, in sum, quite modest. 150 million by june, plus 250 million by the end of the year, that's additional money that humanitarian action is going to need. i am sure that parliament is prepared to assume its responsibilities, as the committee on budgets of the european parliament has just done for the first tranche of 150 million. i hope that we can overcome the reluctance and the slowness of the member states, who are still opposed to the provision of the 400 million euro to deal with an exceptional situation. we are too often left helpless when disasters strike, and it would be particularly uncomfortable for us to have to explain to the victims of these disasters that, for an almost petty budgetary quarrel, we would also be reduced to the role of helpless observers of a continually deteriorating humanitarian situation. i call on the member states not to obstinately oppose the request for additional appropriations, which is fully justified, and to honour the commission's least contested department, humanitarian action. it is not a matter of pride that so much effort has been expended and that it has finally resulted in a simple transfer of funds, to the benefit of humanitarian action, but at the expense of other instruments of international solidarity which are already chronically underfunded. once again, we're going to strip peter to dress paul.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i welcome the commission's proposal and mrs [nbsp]kratsa's report. i have tabled a very small amendment on behalf of my group. i think that the european parliament will be able to give its consent without any hesitation. it concerns the possibility for these funds to be compartments or sub-funds of other alternative investment funds. as the commissioner has recalled, the objective of the european long-term investment funds is to provide a long-term investment vehicle on the one hand and to encourage the financing of the real economy on the other. however, let us not be fooled: these funds will not have the desired effect unless they are accompanied by a minimum of flexibility and attractiveness. that is what i propose to do in my amendment, which provides that they may be compartments of other alternative investment funds. i emphasize this simply because such an option provides the flexibility and cost reductions needed to make them sufficiently attractive. flexibilities include the possibility for an investor in an aif to transfer cash from one compartment to an alternative compartment of the same fund without incurring entry or exit fees. this has the advantage for the management company of keeping investors loyal and for the latter of saving entry and exit costs. furthermore, the possibility of alternative funds being compartments of funds also avoids the costs associated with the creation of a brand new fund. this amendment has the advantage of being promising, without being revolutionary. indeed, compartments are provided for in other key directives, such as the aifmds, which date from 2011, and the ucits directive 2009, in particular articles[nbsp ]1, 2 and 49. this does not change the oversight by the authorities or the protection of investors. for example, it is sufficient to look at article 49 of the ucits directive, which specifies that compartments are treated by supervisory authorities as real funds in relation to bonds. as regards investment policies, the seriousness and the value of this amendment is shown by the fact that the greek minister for finance also supports it. it therefore supports the possibility of introducing compartments, as is shown by the latest text of the greek presidency. let us therefore be pragmatic and practical.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. that is also an abuse of the rules of procedure. but this is my last speech in this parliament. i've been there since 1965. i don't know, i'm not on the list right now, but maybe i'll run again in 2019, so maybe this isn't a final goodbye. thank you again to all the good colleagues. we worked so well together. i was very happy about this work! (parliament adopted the resolution)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the newly elected president of the commission, jean-claude juncker, was quite right when he said yesterday morning: 'the crisis will not be over until the problem of high unemployment in europe, particularly youth unemployment, is solved.' since 2008, youth unemployment in the union has been rising steadily, reaching up to 50% in some countries. the funds from the initiative have been available since 1 september 2013. so my question to you, commissioner andor, is: how is it that the european commission has so far only adopted the programmes of two countries? and how is it that it took five years for something to happen at the european level? youth unemployment has been rising since 2008, but the initiative was only adopted in 2013. how can we work more effectively here? would it not also make more sense to raise the age to 30? you mentioned the seminar in brussels at the beginning. could you perhaps go back to what was said by the experts and what was withheld from the public that could help to accelerate programmes, projects and initiatives in the member states? because i think that's one of the biggest problems. i would also like to refer to this best practice of how europe works. austria has already been mentioned. in luxembourg too, the project was officially launched in june of this year, and although unemployment is not as high in luxembourg, it is still important to tackle work, school and guidance at the root and find a solution here. i do not blame the commission, but the member states, because i think that is the problem. i therefore welcome the resolution by mr casa that we should continue to deal with this important problem in the new legislature. thank you very much.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, first, i should like to say thank you to the commissioner – i am here, i am a backbencher now! thank you very much, commissioner, for your very courageous and straightforward speech today. mr fox’s intervention has already given us a flavour of where this political game will go. despite the fact that it is the british treasury and the treasuries of some other rich member states who cause all these problems, this will be another ukip and tory – i think it is more ukipisation – party strategy. they will blame brussels for the fact that it is the british government, it is mrs merkel, it is the austrians and the danish and the finnish governments who are creating the problem here. colleagues, we will have to win this battle; but, if we want to win this battle, this battle has to leave the brussels bubble. it has to leave this place. and what is great for us is that it is precisely the universities in the uk who will lose the most, it is the universities in germany who will lose the most, it is the universities in sweden and finland which will lose the most, and in austria and in the netherlands. so what we have to do is ask the students of these countries to organise big demonstrations in front of their finance ministries. we have to show who is creating trouble and we have to prevent this from turning into another ‘blame brussels’ game. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – i think it is very difficult to answer questions from ukip because they rarely speak on the topic, and they always try to continue this anti-europe game. i think that at the end of the day, maybe next thursday, we will get an answer to that, and that will be the outcome of the sad story of 10 to 15 years of unfair europe-bashing from the major newspapers and some of the political parties. so go ahead; we will have to live with the results.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, the underestimation of the crisis by the international community and the lack of a well-coordinated strategy explain the more than worrying spread of the virus. are we up to the challenge? the answer, unfortunately, is no, as long as we can't contain the pandemic. the number of ebola infections doubles every three weeks. the longer the response is delayed, the harder it will be to stop the spread. in the case of ebola, you have to be faster than the virus. what do we need? of course, i'm not going to lie to you. it is important to ensure that there is a capacity of some 2 000 beds for immediate care and to prevent further contamination outside the isolated areas. not the day after tomorrow, not the day after tomorrow, but right now. this is a very serious time. we need decisive action. the great humanitarians have spoken of everything that needs to be done. if some of them are calling on the international community to mobilize all means, including military, and deploy them under the auspices of the united nations, then this is no time for academic discussion. we have to do something. it is by setting up treatment centres that we can provide care to those who are infected. the processing capacity is insufficient and very often non-existent. too often, patients are turned away from the gates of overcrowded facilities and have no choice but to go home at the risk of infecting others. in liberia, the situation is changing particularly dramatically. the health care system in this country is practically broken. if the international community's response to the tragedy that is unfolding before our eyes is inadequate, other health facilities in the region could also collapse. the disastrous impact of the current crisis on economic activity is also worth noting. in many companies, the production tool is at a standstill. this makes the countries concerned even more dependent on external aid. a final word of thanks to the teams of doctors, nurses and all those who are concerned about helping to save human beings at the risk of their own lives.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, the european union's annual report on human rights and democracy in the world leads me to make the following observations: the worst violations are perpetrated where the state, deliberately or by impotence, does not or no longer fulfils its sovereign functions. this is particularly the case in the middle east, where we must agree with brahimi that there is a risk that this region will become a territory dominated by warlords. what do we do about it? very little, if we consider the difficulties refugees in this region have in finding a new home. i am convinced that the international community has failed to intervene when the opposition to assad has begged us to do so. state crisis or state crime, the hotbeds of crisis where populations are exposed to barbarism, unfortunately, are becoming more and more numerous. for example, in africa, and particularly in the eastern part of the congo, where there is no longer even the appearance of public order, dr. mukwege notes that the woman's body has become a battlefield. all this makes us approach the human rights situation with great modesty. it is easier to take stock of atrocities than to make an inventory of conflicts that have been prevented - to use the words of bernard-henri levy. this should not discourage us as the european union from continuing on the path set out in its strategy to promote human rights and democracy on a global scale. on the contrary, if the union continues to intensify its dialogue with its partners in the world, it may be able to make improvements in this area, not dramatically but nevertheless significantly. finally, i would like europe, which is always ready to teach the rest of the world, to make sure that it is an example within its own borders. we're still a long way from the count.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, if we want to defeat ebola, we must be faster than the virus and we must attack it at its root. in africa, in liberia, in sierra leone, in guinea, and in the united states. how many deaths will it take in europe before things start to move a little bit more at the level of the member states? it is obvious that the protection of our people must be done at the front, that is to say in the countries mentioned above. there's no point in hiding behind walls. in liberia, where the health system is practically down, but not only, it is important to do two things. first, we need more beds, more doctors, more management staff, more transportation logistics and more money. since medical personnel are too often in short supply, they have to come from elsewhere. hats off to cuba, which just sent 130 doctors to the region. the same applies to the united states, which has committed to installing 3,400 beds in the region by the end of the year. they're already halfway there, but there's still a lot of medical personnel missing. in europe, many doctors are still reluctant to volunteer to go to the region where the virus is because for weeks and weeks there has been no hope of repatriation for the infected. it is essential to solve this problem immediately. we no longer want to hear any more excuses, any more falsehoods, any more excuses to cover up the obvious inability of the 28 member states to coordinate their actions in this area. secondly, we must fight against 'the crisis within the crisis', as doctors without borders calls it, i.e. to ensure that patients who are not yet infected with the virus can be treated outside isolation centres. there's no such thing as fate. as the commissioner has just reminded us, senegal and nigeria have become free of the virus. i have just called jean-claude juncker to ask him to make the fight against ebola his priority. there are so many things to coordinate, so many obstacles to overcome before we are able to formulate a response that is up to the challenge. in short, the union needs a great programme. before concluding, let me remind you that david cameron has just said that europe needs an extra billion euros to finance the union's efforts. let us have the courage to support this demand and let us ensure that europe can henceforth finance european actions. this time it is not the united kingdom that should play the role of the obstacle to going round in circles. we must see if there are still obstacles elsewhere, and if there are not, then we must act.
madam president, i think many of us in this chamber would agree that the hungarians are special and i say this with a lot of respect for one of the oldest state-founding nations of our continent. they are special and have always been so. this is one of the reasons why we were particularly glad and proud to have them back. but i am afraid they are not special enough. they are not so special that they could invent a christian democracy that was illiberal. they will not manage this. none of us has managed it and indeed none of us has attempted it. christian democracy is liberal democracy and only a liberal christian democracy is compatible with european democracy. now this is where there is the choice, and about this choice we might have to talk again. i am not opposed to letting anyone experiment with models of governance, but as soon as we are confronted with a model of governance that is willingly and wittingly going beyond the acceptable borders of what we consider to be european rule of law, there is need for debate.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. jean-claude, if we greens vote no to your commission today, then that should make you think, too. between july, when many of us voted for you, and october, there was a breach of trust in four areas: your u-turn on ttip. the fact that your european semester doesn't include environmental issues. the fact that frans timmermans is making fun of vacuum cleaners, not knowing that eco-design is the most unbureaucratic policy that promotes the single market and has the greatest mass of efficiency that we have in europe. fourthly, where can i, where can we get confidence that your commission will go beyond the ridiculously low 27% efficiency and 7% renewable energy which the heads of state will unfortunately decide to do under the veto of cameron and poland? i'd appreciate it if your answer could be a little more tailored to this breach of trust.
in writing. the new commission president said this morning that the team he will be chairing will be the last chance team. at the end of five years, we shall know whether he has had the fortune to meet the great challenges of restoring the authority of the institution, of overcoming the crisis, of laying a solid foundation for future generations and of preserving europe as a community of values. my vote in favour of the commission is in line with a logic which began with the appointment of the spitzenkandidaten and ended with full respect for the will expressed by the majority of european citizens in the last european elections. finally, i do not hide my emotion at seeing jean-claude juncker take over the presidency of the commission. after gaston thorn and jacques santer, here is another of my compatriots called upon to preside over the european executive.
mr president, there is no doubt that the phenomenon we call the 'islamic state' is a phenomenon which simply runs counter to all our convictions. it is a murderous phenomenon, which respects nothing but its narrow and perverse ideology and which is opposed to the model of civilization that is ours. so, to fight those who go to support isis and to fight this phenomenon, i do not think we should start again by apologizing for the shortcomings of our societies, for a lack of tolerance and understanding and for unemployed young people who need other models, values and guidelines. i think we must face the truth that many countries, supposedly allies of the european union, have supported, around us and for decades, and continue to support all those who destroy and also all those who plan to destroy us from within. i do not agree with mr gollnisch and others who want to focus on non-return. personally, i would like to emphasize the non-departure, the reasons for departure and the organization of departures, because it is not young people who leave europe with tour operators who sell them package holidays to syria. these trips are organized by allies of europe, such as qatar, and other countries that continue to deny their involvement in the destructive logic that is beginning to surround us and that, in the end, could very well defeat us. you have to face your real opponents.
madam president, special and individual tax arrangements exist in many countries of the european union and far beyond. they exist in some countries because they exist in others and because there is competition to attract the international headquarters of international companies. it is also questionable how many of these companies would still be in europe if these practices did not exist. whether they are moral, whether they are ethical, whether they are praiseworthy, we can debate, but the world is what it is. the commission, together with the council, has just ensured that the parent-subsidiary directive will soon eliminate certain elements of hybrid capital which are one of the main reasons for anticipated tax decisions across the union. we'll see what happens. the new measures for the exchange of information on advance tax rulings will be another contribution to the general transparency of the matter, but they will not eliminate this type of decisions - let us be reasonable - unless we want to. but to want it, the states must want it, and i note that up to now many states, a large majority of member states, have not wanted it and have prevented progress on this front. perhaps this occasion is a chance for us to finally move forward together on this matter.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, once again we are faced with the situation of a country struggling to overcome its difficulties: political, security, humanitarian difficulties, not to mention the natural disasters that accompany them. if it is not cholera, it is famine, if it is not the displacement of the population, it is the threat to humanitarian workers. south sudan is fragile, it is vulnerable, but it is not without resources. ethnic differences have been the background to the hostilities in this part of the african continent. the fact that the functions of the state are no longer or no longer sufficiently ensured makes it difficult to provide humanitarian aid to the deprived populations who are in dire need of it. the greatest obstacle to south sudan's take-off is the country itself, which is why the european parliament calls for the responsibility of the parties to the conflict to respect the ceasefire agreement. insecurity is the greatest obstacle to the country's development, and yet south sudan should know that the international situation is not favourable to it, as there are many hotbeds of tension, crises and conflicts that require humanitarian aid from our states and the european union. in the meantime, the european union must reprogram its aid, since south sudan's absorption capacity has virtually disappeared. our message to south sudan is this: yes, we are ready to help you, including through an international donor conference, provided that everyone, starting with you, contributes. it is therefore time for diplomacy, mediation and reconciliation. the african union and the european union can offer help, but nothing can be imposed on them.
mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr stier, on his rapid adoption of a report and on his success in committee. my second reflection is on the very unsatisfactory results: the implementation of the millennium development goals as agreed in 2000. the question must be asked as to why these results are insufficient. there are many reasons for this, and i would say that the first is the failure of the international community to achieve the objectives it set itself in the 1970s. the disbursement of public aid, which amounts to 0.7% of gross domestic product, is also very poor in many european union countries. secondly, the mismatch between the production of wealth on the one hand and the capacity for redistribution on the other. for example, the emerging countries produce both rich and even poorer people. the lessons to be learned from this situation and the responsibility to be shared by all must be taken into account in order to achieve a more effective approach. let us start by introducing social security in all developing countries: this would be a powerful means of redistributing wealth and, at the same time, a catalyst for progress in health promotion. we see how important this is, especially in countries suffering from the ebola epidemic.
i have to say, madam president, after five years of the europe 2020 strategy, it is time to take stock and learn from the mistakes of the first years. it is not lost on us that we are still far from the objectives we have set ourselves, particularly in the field of social policy. the member states are responsible for their own social and employment systems. i agree with this division of powers in principle. but it is becoming increasingly clear that the member states are not acting fast enough, effectively enough and sometimes very capriciously. this is particularly evident in the case of the youth guarantee and other initiatives for youth employment. the fact is that the social indicators must be strengthened and possibly made binding if we are to achieve the objectives of the strategy at all. another issue that is particularly close to my heart is poverty and the ever-increasing risk of slipping into poverty. we must not fight poverty with precarious jobs, but we must find long-term solutions. this is why it is essential to promote growth. i look forward to the presentation by commission president jean-claude juncker tomorrow morning and look forward to his proposals on the investment pact in the hope that the employment and social aspects of the europe 2020 strategy will be strengthened and promoted.
mr president, i believe that we, as elected representatives of the people, have a duty to direct public opinion towards genuine representation. when i hear the stupid, narrow-minded, wishful-wishing populist claims of the right wing of this house, i feel the need to give you some figures. around the world today, you find 480 million european immigrants and their descendants. that's the equivalent of the population of the european union that left europe at some point in its history. few did it for pleasure. today, too, few people leave their homeland for pleasure or simply to enjoy our social security. does the young dutch colleague have anything to say about the need to close the borders? i wanted to tell him that there are 15 million dutch emigrants and their descendants around the world, that's more than there are dutch people inside the netherlands. so if we want to be fair, if we want to follow the example of what his holiness the pope, who was with us this morning, wanted, let us bear this in mind: europe is a continent of emigration before it is a continent of immigration. if people knock on our door today, we have no right to leave it closed.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in view of all that my colleague, markus ferber, has just said on behalf of the european people's party, and which i fully agree with, i should like to add a few points which i think are equally important. we will not achieve our road safety objectives and we will not succeed in improving the reputation of the sector without taking social aspects into account. the human factor is central to our fight for safer roads. many accidents are caused by a lack of attention and reaction on the part of the driver, which is linked in particular to poor working conditions. the commission had a real chance, a real opportunity to remedy the weaknesses in the implementation of the union's social and labour legislation, and the mandate necessary to prevent social dumping, according to article 6 of regulation 1071 establishing common rules on the conditions to be complied with for the exercise of the occupation of road haulage operator. the commission has failed to include illegal cabotage transport in its list, which, in view of its harmful effects on drivers, must undoubtedly be regarded as a serious source of infringements. i therefore regret that the commission did not take these problems into account when drawing up the list, which is still very vague, has many gaps and is therefore incomplete. that is why i rejected the list proposed in the committee on transport and tourism and i call on my colleagues to vote in favour of our resolution. nevertheless, we need this list because of the improvements it makes in terms of legal certainty. transport companies must take responsibility and, where appropriate, ensure that their reputation is preserved. i therefore ask the commission to take parliament's arguments into account and i call on the commission to propose, as soon as possible, a new list of serious infringements.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to begin by telling mrs spinelli that if she is talking about all the people who are escaping from prison in the horn of africa, there are not enough prisons in a country like somalia. because these people are not escaping from prison, but from the absence of a state. we pretend that there is still a somali state, but somalia no longer exists. this leads me to something that my colleague mr carver is probably going to appreciate. yes, i believe that we need to do something on somaliland, and i believe that we need to do it soon. because this is about the only territory in the entire region which is not only democratically constituted now, but which might actually also constitute a refuge for a significant number of people in the area who have nowhere else to go, and for whom this would be the closest safe haven they could reach. but my point, to conclude, to the commissioner, is this: we have taken over the name of this process from an initiative of the african union. in the name of coherence of policies which we so often extol, and which i feel bound by, we should indeed try to follow up on initiatives taken by the african union itself in order to contain phenomena that we want to contain. so therefore, even if we have to talk to dictatorships, even if we have to engage with dictatorships, this might not be the most nice and most agreeable thing to do, but at times it is just what we have to do in order to achieve an aim.
