mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. after latvia joined the euro, we found ourselves the poorest area in europe. it's not terrible, but what's terrible is that in latvia, pensioners receive a pension of about 200 euros a month. this is eight times less than the pension in germany and france. taking into account that there are practically no social protection schemes for pensioners in latvia, the difference is 1520%. the price level for basic necessities is the same as in germany and france. question how can a pensioner in latvia survive on €200 a month? countries joining the euro area must raise pensions and social benefits to 50% of the european average. then the eurozone will be joined not by the poor, but by genuine partners. thank you for your attention.
in writing. − i voted in favour of defending the immunity, since i was ‘attacked’ similarly by the far-right
in writing. − investment in research, development and innovation (r&d&i) is one of the thematic objectives of the eu cohesion policy. smart specialisation means that a region should set priorities for r&d&i funding in the light of its own strengths and comparative advantages, drawing up smart regional innovation strategies. close links should be established between research and higher education institutions, businesses (particularly smes) and local and regional administrations. a two-way process should be set in motion, to further innovation and new developments. i voted in favour.
in writing. − i voted in favour because i agree on the following principles: (1) no recitals, only citations, in the recommendation accompanying the decision (the s&d group had been in favour of including recitals); (2) a six-month period for taking a decision; (3) an interim report from the committee(s); (4) a ‘cooling off’ period of no longer than one year for international agreements.
in writing. − setting emissions targets for vans will help reduce fuel consumption and keep european producers at the forefront of technological innovation while at the same time benefiting the environment. this legislation is a clear win-win solution for both consumers and the automotive industry in europe. therefore, i voted in favour.
in writing. − i voted in favour because this programme aims to facilitate the creation of an environment in which – thanks to education, information and awareness-raising – consumers know how to navigate the single market to benefit from the best offers on products and services.
in writing. − this alignment measure deals with the management of quotas for certain meat and cereal products, as regards implementing and delegating powers to be conferred on the commission. i voted in favour.
in writing. − this alignment measure deals with imports of olive oil and other agricultural products from turkey, as regards implementing and delegating powers to be conferred on the commission. i voted in favour.
in writing. − i voted in favour because clear rules on aromatised wine products, coupled with a strict quality regime, serve consumer interests and stop customers being misled.
in writing. − i believe that renewables and energy efficiency should remain the primary focus of eu climate legislation and funding. carbon capture and storage can be considered only as a transitional solution to help reduce greenhouse gas emissions from industrial sources. however, i voted in favour.
in writing. − this report, based on the commission’s proposal for a new 2012-2020 e-health action plan, is designed to tackle the challenges facing healthcare systems today. against the backdrop of an ageing population, the impact of chronic illnesses, and reduced patient and staff mobility, e-health can go some way to meeting these challenges, but i categorically disagree with the report. instead of digital treatment and consultations, the network of hospitals and polyclinics needs to be increased! i am against these proposals!
in writing. − it is sad that food fraud is becoming a common occurrence. member states must take urgent action to implement better and more frequent controls in the food chain and must apply appropriate penalties in order to safeguard public health and restore consumer confidence. i supported the rapporteur.
in writing. − labour inspection is a fundamental part of labour administration. an effective labour inspection system, capable of confronting the challenges of a changing labour market, is an essential part of good governance. labour inspectors are essential to the enforcement of employee rights, the prevention of abuses by unscrupulous employers and the promotion of economic and social development. it is also important for inspection systems not to be ‘overworked’. i abstained.
in writing. − employee participation schemes need a set of minimum requirements, including the comprehensive involvement of employees and their representatives. furthermore, employees joining such schemes need to be properly informed concerning the underlying risks. if a scheme is put in place, there should be equal access for all employees. these proposals are a nonsense and i voted against them.
in writing. − social protection aims to provide men and women with basic income security and access to essential services throughout the various phases of their lives. social protection is an essential mechanism for addressing inequalities and, especially at this difficult time for people in europe, it needs to be reinforced. i voted in favour.
in writing. − given that the parliament's own-initiative report 'on social protection for all, including the self-employed' has repeatedly emphasised that the social protection system is a competence of the member states, i believe that the report is to be supported. its basic rationale to call on the member states to ensure that social protection measures are equally extended not only to workers in traditional full-time employment relationships but also to workers in alternative forms of employment, i.e. part-time workers, self-employed persons, etc. is welcome, fair and justified. it is clear that in the globalised economy of the 21st century, with technologies that enable remote working, the role of traditional employment will continue to decline as more people work as self-employed persons, as part-time contract workers in more jobs, etc. it is positive that the report also draws attention to the current problem in latvia of concealing the self-employed status of persons in full-time employment in order to avoid paying social security contributions for them.
in writing. − the s&d group rapporteur looks at how prepared member states are for the next round of cohesion policy funding, taking into account the various member states’ and regions’ particularities and the context of the current economic situation. it is clear that, for a number of reasons, member states and regions are at very different stages of the process in terms of the necessary steps in preparing for partnership agreements and operational programmes in a timely and efficient way. nevertheless, i voted in favour.
in writing. − measures are needed to: ensure a timely revision of the packaging directive, separating waste norms from product rules and standards; define targets for collection, sorting and recycling, and promote the creation of adequate infrastructures; envisage ways of processing different types of plastic; have dangerous plastics phased out or banned by 2020; reduce and phase out single-use plastic bags; promote safe, biodegradable, bio-based and compostable plastics on the basis of clearly defined criteria; and increase public and private investment in r&d for sustainable plastics. the european union and the member states also need to tackle illegal exports and the dumping of plastic waste. all stakeholders must adopt good practices in line with the principle of a circular economy: the eu should lead global initiatives to reduce litter, including litter in marine environments; and member states should run awareness-raising campaigns for the public, with the involvement of regional and local authorities. i voted in favour.
in writing. − regional branding can play an important role in promoting high-quality sets of goods and services embodying the specific characteristics of each territory and contributing to the development of territorial economies and to new opportunities on local and international markets. i voted in favour.
madam president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. prime minister! you guys! first of all, of course, i also wish the greek presidency every success for the next six months, and i would like to draw your attention to one particular matter. as rapporteur for the committee on economic and monetary affairs in the legislative procedure for the anti-money laundering directive, i would like to draw the attention of the greek presidency to the fact that in the next six months there is not only the possibility of agreeing on the text of this directive in parliament and of entering into a trilogue with the greek presidency, but also of achieving the adoption of this directive. one of the key amendments from the european parliament, which it strongly supports, is the establishment of a european-wide register of beneficial owners, which will not only improve the business environment by leveling the playing field between all companies, but will also be a serious weapon in the fight against money laundering. i therefore urge the greek presidency not only to look at all the issues that have been raised so far, but also to remember and to underline the importance of this anti-money laundering directive and the register of beneficial owners, and it is in your hands to promote this on the council's side and to adopt this directive. thank you.
in writing. − this report concerns amendments to parliament’s rules of procedure regarding the work of its committees. i voted in favour.
in writing. − i supported the calendar for 2015 as proposed.
in writing. − given the fact that the ‘prevention, preparedness and consequence management of terrorism and other security-related risksʼ specific programme was adopted under a double legal base (ec/euratom), a separate legal act is required to repeal it. i voted in favour.
in writing. − this is just an approval without the controversy of extending the existing agreement. i voted in favour.
in writing. − this recast of the regulation specifies technical details of euro coins intended for circulation, and deletes the indicative nature of the thickness of euro coins so as to transfer over to using the real thickness of euro coins instead and standardise this. therefore, i voted in favour.
in writing. − i believe that all member states will benefit from the strengthening of relations with asean and i support the effort of closer political and economic integration among its member states. a european union that wants to play a global role cannot and should not neglect this part of the world. the eu and the asean share the political objective of promoting well-being, cooperation and peace in their respective regions and they can greatly benefit from an even closer cooperation. in favour.
in writing. − i voted in favour because the new regulation will improve the use of the digital tachograph, a device installed in the vehicle to monitor its activity. the report is a good balance between improved road safety and working conditions on one hand, and respect for the driverʼs private life and data on the other hand. the objective of the new regulation is to enforce stricter rules on driving and rest time (social rules), which will increase protection of drivers and road safety.
in writing. − the new provisions on concessions, while preserving the public provision of services of general economic interest, and water in particular, will help central and local authorities to organise an efficient, transparent and modern system for the concession of works and services contracts to economic operators bound to respect social and environmental obligations. this will promote investment in works and services based on innovation and quality. i abstained.
in writing. − the new provisions on concessions, while preserving the public provision of services of general economic interest, and water in particular, will help central and local authorities to organise an efficient, transparent and modern system for the concession of works and services contracts to economic operators bound to respect social and environmental obligations. i voted in favour.
in writing. − the new provisions on concessions, while preserving the public provision of services of general economic interest, and water in particular, will help central and local authorities to organise an efficient, transparent and modern system for the concession of works and services contracts to economic operators bound to respect social and environmental obligations. it is necessary to support the report. in favour.
in writing. − the commission has come up with a proposal which essentially consists of 2 procedures. the first procedure is a mechanism that enables national contracting authorities to exclude tenders from third countries when they feel companies from europe do not enjoy reciprocal access to the third country market. the second procedure allows the commission to launch its own investigations in regard to the reciprocal access of european companies to third country procurement markets and to take action. i supported the report.
in writing. − the commission’s proposal comes in reaction to the recent ruling by the european court of justice in the case of the ‘federal state of bavaria v k.h. bablock (an amateur beekeepers’ association). it ruled that pollen is an ingredient and not a natural constituent of honey, and that therefore ingredients that contain gm components, such as the pollen in question, have to be labelled as a gm product if the percentage of gm components exceeds the 0.9 % tolerance level established by directive 1829/2003 on genetically modified food and feed. all honey in commercial circulation in the eu – including imported honey – should be checked for the presence of gm pollen. we tabled an amendment: in line with the commission proposal and labelling requirements, pollen should be regarded as a natural constituent of honey, but in accordance with the regulation on genetically modified feed and food, pollen should be regarded as an ingredient. this would imply that only the pollen would be tested for gmo contamination instead of the honey as a whole. i voted in favour.
for the ecr group it is clear that the european union is not experiencing the best economic times and that the member states are using a variety of instruments to improve their financial and economic situation. by 2010, no member state in the european union had sold a residence permit for a fixed-term residence permit in exchange for real estate, housing or other property. there are now a whole series of such schemes in more than six countries and the threshold ranges from eur 70 000 in latvia to eur 500 000 in spain and portugal. in any event, we see that there is a demand - in this case, for third-country nationals from several countries - and we are very happy to take advantage of this opportunity. for example, latvia has issued ten times more such residence permits in one year than the united kingdom, where this threshold for investment is very high. of course, the sale of citizenship for investment finally gets to the heart of this debate here in the european parliament building. i was very pleased about that and i hope we will draw the right conclusions, especially in the case of malta, where the operations with customers are carried out by concessionary private companies. yes, legally member states have this right to act on their own citizenship law. at the same time, we must remember that we have been building these fundamental freedoms, including individual freedoms, in the european union for many decades. i would like to emphasize whether we are convinced that all this money that is entering the european union in this way is white, grey, maybe even black in colour, and whether the people who are coming with this money also have the same kind of good intentions. and is it not true that in the european union we no longer feel that we have only the option of selling tickets to expensive museums? and what happens to a citizen who has dual citizenship or loyalty to a country? the european union country where he acquired citizenship or his own country? thank you.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. in europe we talk all the time about the need for jobs and the need for growth. jobs and growth. but the question is, where will those jobs come from? of course, investment is needed, because without investment, nothing happens. the question is how to attract that investment. there are countries in europe, and not a few of them, that offer potential investors a "burka", that is, to invest in a member state of the european union for which a residence permit is granted. i emphasise the word 'terminated' (within two to five years). by making certain investments of a certain size, they have the right to stay in the european union. they don't have that right anymore. i don't think that's the biggest problem with this practice. the difficulties are in countries like malta, which seem to want to grant statehood in order to attract investment. they're actually selling the empire. and whether that amount seems large or small, i think it's a very problematic thing, because the important thing is that this is not a time-bound measure. it's a one-time sale of the state, that's all. so, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to draw a distinction between two different ways in which some member states of the european union are trying to attract investment. one is through residence permits with expiry dates, which i do not see as a major problem, but the other is a completely different matter. what the maltese government is actually trying to do in this case is to sell the state. this, i think, is absolutely untenable. we don't have to trade sovereignty in europe. thank you for your attention.
in writing. – the statement by the commission is toothless and cowardly. in this situation it is an attempt to overlook the fact that spain, an eu member state, wants to restrict significantly womenʼs right to private life. in such cases, conclusions and thoughts need to be formulated clearly instead of trying to please both opponents and advocates of abortion. the ppe memberʼs statements concerning spainʼs competence in this matter are just a cynical mocking of spanish women. an attempt to incorporate questions of private life into national legislation raises many other questions. for example, why have we united in the european union? how is it possible to live in a political and social world if eu citizensʼ rights differ substantially? in what way are spanish women worse than italian or german women? who in the eu has decided to differentiate between citizens on the basis of where they live and their citizenship? such kinds of cases with restrictions on abortion in spain can be continued in other directions, such as sexual life or sexual rights and freedoms. nobody is entitled to encroach upon the private life of eu citizens. i call for all sensible meps to block parliament resolutions or statements directed at discrimination against women.
in writing. − i supported the resolution on the proposal for a council decision on the placing on the market for cultivation of a genetically modified maize product (zea mays l. line 1507) resistant to certain harmful insects of the order of the butterfly, in accordance with directive 2001/18/ec of the european parliament and of the council (directive 2013/2974/cfsp) which provides for a ban on the cultivation of genetically modified maize in the european union. given that the effects of these products on human health and the environment are still not fully understood, i consider that the introduction of genetically modified maize is premature. at the same time, society is also very sensitive to the various chemicals used to treat plants. chemicals are known to increase the yield of the crop concerned, which in turn reduces its price on the market. however, chemicals also cause irreversible damage to human health. i therefore believe that there is a need to discuss and understand the environmental and human impact of genetically modified plants, while also looking for alternatives to the use of chemicals.
mr president, i abstained on this resolution because, right from the start, it seemed very strange to me. you cannot sell something that does not exist, and mr claeys underlines this: eu citizenship does not exist as a separate value. ever since i became an mep, i have been fighting to be just that, but it is not the case. we voted against mr cottigny’s resolution. my opinion on citizenship as a separate value was not supported by half the meps on the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. if european citizenship did exist, then latvian and estonian holders of so-called ‘non-citizen’ passports would enjoy citizenship. most of these people were born in their state – in latvia and estonia respectively – but they do not enjoy the right to be citizens of those states. eu citizenship, if it existed, would resolve this problem.
in writing. - i did not vote in favour of the alternative resolution to the report, which was tabled by all the political groups except the ecr and the efd, because its call on the european commission to take account of all forms of family when drafting legislation on citizenship, the family and freedom of movement could run counter to the concept of marriage as a union between a man and a woman, as defined in the constitution of latvia. eu and member state legislation already guarantees non-discriminatory treatment of all persons, regardless of their sexual orientation. therefore, the report of ms lunaček's own initiative, which served as the basis for this alternative resolution, can only be seen as an attempt by certain narrow interest groups to demonstrate their activities before the elections to the european parliament. as a representative of a conservative political group, i find such activities, which border on deliberately insulting the most conservative part of society, unacceptable. it is also essential that the rules proposed in the report are not in conformity with the internal legislation of several eu member states and that their implementation is in interference with areas which are clearly within the competence of the member states, in breach of the principle of subsidiarity.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. many people set many noble goals for the new year. what is the result? it usually doesn't do anything because in order to achieve the goal, it has to be simple and clear then the goal can be achieved. science has proven that climate change is now being caused by one major cause - human-caused co2 emissions. so our goal should be: reduce this co2 emissions. of course, there are various ways to achieve this goal. one of them is simply to use less energy, so-called energy efficiency the less we use, the less we waste. another option is to use nuclear energy that does not emit co2. the third option is to use renewable energy sources, which also do not have this waste. but, my friends, that goal should be simple and clear: reduce co2 emissions. how to do this should remain a matter for each member state. thank you for your attention.
the commission has already taken a number of decisions on the basis of the information available to it. i would also like to begin by thanking mr bach for this not an easy task and would like to highlight just a few aspects of passenger rights. first, the airline could have refused the return flight if it had not used the outbound route. i think the airlines just need to come up with a different marketing model for how they're going to compete in the market, because it's like the situation where if you're not using a theater ticket for one show, you're not going to see the next show. i would also like to emphasise the following aspect: when an aircraft is manoeuvring at an airport for a long time, passengers must be able to get off the aircraft, unlike some low-cost airlines, which keep these passengers at the airport for several hours. and very importantly, as mr simpson has already mentioned, there is a definition of 'emergency' that excludes technical problems because airlines have an obligation to maintain their aircraft. thank you.
in writing. - i support the parliament's position on the regulation on compensation and assistance to passengers in the event of denied boarding and cancellation or long delay of flights, as the parliament's proposals are very different from the original proposal of the european commission and are much more consumer-friendly. the parliament provides for easier and clearer compensation claims for delayed or cancelled flights and defines more clearly the cases of 'extraordinary circumstances' by offering a complete, closed list of what cases can be considered 'extraordinary circumstances'. this would reduce the ability of airlines to rely on extraordinary circumstances when there are none and to avoid compensating passengers for delayed or cancelled flights. because airlines have a duty to maintain their aircraft in good working order, and technical problems cannot be treated as 'exceptions'. parliament also wants simpler procedures for passengers to obtain information on their rights and to lodge complaints, and a clearer list of what should be included in the airline's advertised 'ticket price', which should always reflect the final price of the ticket. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the right to travel and to have a driver's licence. it is essential that parliament starts the negotiations with the council from a position as friendly as possible to passengers.
mr president, commissioner füle just told us that the ukrainian opposition has to dissociate itself from the radical elements, but whom does he call radical elements? whether they are radical elements or not, they are part of parliamentary opposition – and whether or not the all-ukrainian union ‘svobodaʼ is a neo-nazi party, and whether or not this party glorifies those ukrainians who fought on the side of nazi germany during the second world war. i was in maidan two days ago and i saw the portrait of stepan bandera in the very centre of the square. i came to kiev for the roundtable of the international ngo ‘world without nazismʼ. the participants spoke about rising xenophobia and anti- semitism in ukraine. yes, people whom i met in the maidan expressed awareness of widespread corruption within the government. i do fully support them but did the corruption appear two months... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, i found the resolution on ukraine one-sided and i voted against it. the resolution refers to the danger of corruption in governing circles of ukraine, but did this corruption appear only two months ago? was it not president yanukovych with whom eu leaders were ready to sign an association agreement at the vilnius summit in november, and did they not know about the corruption at that time? on the other hand, the resolution makes reference to the danger of radical elements within the opposition, but this reference is very weak. i saw colleagues, members of the official european parliament delegation, speaking in a friendly way with all three opposition leaders. do you not know, colleagues, that one of them, oleg tyagnibok, leads the neo-nazi party svoboda? i was in the maidan on sunday and i saw neo-nazi slogans there. this is very dangerous.
mr president, i do believe that only a new, united europe can be one of the pillars of a peaceful multipolar world in the 21st century. this resolution is tabled in the spirit of the cold war, and that is why i voted against it. russia, notwithstanding the differences between our political regimes, is a large neighbour, and the european union needs to be its faithful partner. i am against the attempts to build a new wall between the european union and russia in the form of a baltic sea-black sea-caspian sea arch by using the eastern partners of the european union, and ukraine in particular. russia, turkey, the european union and its eastern neighbourhood partners have to consider themselves true strategic partners. this is a component of indivisible european security.
the speaker. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the objective of the fourth railway package to achieve a single railway area in the european union is of course extremely important, but i think it is not a revelation to anyone here that, looking at the diversity of railways in europe, we see our european history, and its diversity has historically been so important that we cannot, of course, overcome all of this in one quick step. i think we're all aware of that. but the steps we've taken in working on this rail package, i think they're good. i would also like to congratulate all my colleagues on the excellent cooperation - particularly in the technical pillar - with michael cramer and mrs bilbao, and i think that, at least in the technical pillar, we can find a fairly quick solution with the council, because the council has already reached a political agreement on its position on at least two of the three reports and could, if necessary, move it forward. why is this important? because if we do not introduce technical barriers, which is perhaps the easiest compromise to find, then we will not make any significant progress in the political department either, because obviously these steps cannot be triggered at the same time. on this technical pillar, i would like to say that, particularly in my report, which is of course also largely based on the other two directives - the interoperability directive and the railway safety directive - the agency has nevertheless succeeded in fulfilling its role as a one-stop shop, as a single control point, and in fulfilling the three main functions of authorising the use of railway means of transport in europe, issuing safety certificates to railway undertakings and approving physical railway infrastructure. parliament clearly wanted to see clearer and faster appeal procedures in cases of dispute, and in any event parliament also wanted to see more direct and clearer relations between the european railway agency and the national safety authorities of the member states in the railway sector. and i think we've succeeded in that. one of our objectives was also to keep this levy from making the situation worse than it has been in the past, because there have been very different situations in the payments for these safety certificates and vehicle authorisations. there have been situations where it has been quick and cheap, and there have been situations where it has been very long and expensive, but this difficult task, i think we have managed to put in place at the legislative level. i am also glad that my colleagues have understood this very important matter, where it was extremely important for me as the representative of the baltic states to emphasise how different these so-called isolated markets are in the european union, and there are isolated markets in the european union's understanding that are, among other things, very well integrated in other markets, as is the case with the baltic states and finland. and here i would like to thank you for understanding this four-year period during which the national safety authorities in the railway sector have to find a compromise between themselves, and if they cannot recognise mutually recognised certificates, for example between latvia, estonia and lithuania for the crossing of locomotives, then this function will continue to be carried out by the european railway agency. i think this is a good approach as a last resort and a potent weapon for the national security agencies as well. and finally, i would also like to express my satisfaction that tomorrow we will be able to reach a difficult but hopefully non-homicidal compromise on both reports from the political section, on the reports by mr khadraoui and mr grosch, and that we will also have the opportunity here to reach a final solution rather than to put an end to this very valuable piece of legislation in the political section. thank you.
the speaker. - mr president! - what are you doing? i very much enjoyed our debate, and if we look back at the events of those two hours, we immediately heard how, let us say, on the left flank of this parliament people were arguing among themselves who is more against the liberalisation of the railways. we heard the same from this side, from the right side, and finally, my very respected colleague, ramon tremosa, who is a liberal, also told me that if mr grosch's report is not acceptable, they will not vote either. they'll hold. so the question is why are we in the european parliament, which is the real institution that should be fighting for a single market in the single european union, a single railway area, not able to deal with these issues? are we going to go back in time, stop working on the fourth railway package? could the third, second and our revised first railway package be dropped altogether? these are serious questions, ladies and gentlemen. and i know this is going to be a rough start, but do we think of rail as a unique industry? it is certainly a very specific sector, but can it be competitive in a way that is different from aviation, from road transport, from information and communication technology, i.e. by separating infrastructure and not paying cross-subsidy in competition? there is no other way in all these sectors, because competition saves taxpayers money and these huge subsidies, which mr calla mentioned, of €46 billion, which are paid across europe as a whole. the only way we can save that money is through competition. otherwise, our only option is to double this taxpayer subsidy and then hope that perhaps the quality of transport will improve a little if rail transport is maintained at all, and at an unreasonable cost. ladies and gentlemen, let's be serious about this industry and let's be serious about tomorrow's vote, thank you!
in writing. - i supported the so-called rail package at first reading and i would like to thank all my colleagues on the transport committee who have worked hard for several months to close this file before the elections in the spring. the aid is granted in accordance with the rules adopted, which require all operators to have equal access to the railway infrastructure. this will encourage competition. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the transport of dangerous goods by rail. i am confident that the newly elected parliament will adopt these provisions at the final reading, thus concluding the long and difficult work of this legislative process.
in writing. - the resolution adopted today calls for a reduction in the number of deaths in road accidents in europe. unfortunately, in 2012, some 28 000 people died in car accidents in europe, and more than 1.5 million people were injured. these are alarming figures, and action is needed to reduce the number of tragic car accidents. the ecall system could reduce the number of deaths by 2,500 people per year, while also significantly reducing the number of accidents. while i do not support additional regulation which increases costs for businesses, the number of car accidents needs to be reduced.
in writing. - the european parliament resolution on long-term financing of the european economy analyses the current situation in the european union with regard to the availability of finance. even now, with europe's economic situation improving, access to finance is hampered. this is particularly undesirable for projects requiring a large amount of funding with a repayment term of well over five years. such projects are usually implemented in the field of infrastructure, research and innovation. it should also be taken into account that banks are not always willing to lend to such projects because of their high risk. the resolution makes recommendations to the european commission and the member states to improve this situation. the commission is required to develop legislative acts or to amend existing ones in order to create a favourable environment for long-term investment. as our country's entrepreneurs and the development of the economy in general need sustainable stability, initiatives aimed at ensuring it are particularly important and desirable. that is why i am voting in favour of this resolution.
in writing. - i supported this resolution because i believe that we need to fight organised crime in all its forms, which is the source of prostitution for hundreds of thousands of women across europe. one way is to introduce the scandinavian model in the member states by penalising those who purchase the services of prostitutes. prostitution not only degrades human dignity but also contributes to the spread of disease. that is why i hope that the member states will heed the calls made in the resolution and do everything possible to ensure that the organised crime figures who have subjected women to sexual slavery not only throughout europe but also the world as a whole are punished and that women can return to a normal life.
my fellow citizens! the ukrainian people have earned our help for their courage, and we expect swift and decisive action. firstly, the association agreement cannot of course be the ultimate goal; we must give ukraine a clear integration perspective. v. yanukovych's corrupt regime has brought ukraine to the brink of bankruptcy, so financial assistance is needed, and we need to make sure that the 20 billion mentioned is used to implement effective reforms. secondly, sanctions must be imposed not only in words but also in practice against the officials responsible for the bloody events in kiev. we need to close accounts, we need a ban on entering the european union. thirdly, the role of russia. if, as sergei glazyev has said, we cannot rule out military intervention, then you, commissioner, must make it clear that we must not allow a repeat of what happened in abkhazia and south ossetia. to avoid repeated sanctions from russia, we need to use effectively all possible wto and tariff mechanisms, as we need to ensure stable trade for ukraine with both russia and the european union. thank you.
mr[nbsp ]president, i was in kiev on that bloody day when, in a few hours, ukraine passed from desperate violence to a political solution of the crisis. the change was made possible by ukrainians and by the verkhovna rada, who woke up to the call of the nation. and now about us: the european union should not delay its support to ukraine. at this point we should ask what ukraine needs, not what we want from ukraine. of course, any support should be linked to reforms establishing the rule of law and a functioning market economy, but the support of the european union should help ukrainians to be part of the ukraine that they envision. i fully support the idea of holding a donors’ conference. the european union should be an active participant and a contributor to the project. this is, too, a crucial moment for russia. either it will be able to preserve its traditionally close relations with ukraine or, through shortsighted actions, will create a generation of ukrainians who will deeply ... (the president cut of the speaker)
mr president, i am deeply concerned that the eu has now taken on a burden of responsibility for the affairs in ukraine which it is not capable of bearing. we can regret in our resolution the decision by the rada to abolish the law on languages, but it is now already a historical fact that this was one of the first decisions of the new majority in the rada. what reaction in the east and south of ukraine can we expect to see from this decision? commissioner füle told us that the new administration must be inclusive, politically and geographically. how, commissioner, do you hope to achieve this? there are different rumours concerning the composition of the new ukrainian government. anyhow, the names of yatsenyuk, tyahnybok, klitschko and even yarosh are being mentioned and i want to remind you that three of them – nobody knew at that time about yarosh – were among those who defiantly protested against this compromise law on languages.
thank you, chairman. it seemed to me, commissioner, that your report was not sufficiently analytical or comprehensive. i agree with much of what my colleagues have said before me. but i want to focus all of your attention on one question: what is this government and what are these elected officials? they come from nationalist parties with a vengeful spirit. if we keep doing this and we don't see it, we're gonna end up very sad. we know that many of these people who used armed force themselves and who came to maidan dressed in army uniforms with their faces covered were trained by the organisation erna, which operates in our european union territory. if we don't see it, then it's going to end badly... (the president cut off the speaker.)
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i will speak on our visa resolution which covers a number of topics. given the time constraints i would like to single out one of them: the member states’ cooperation in issuing schengen visas. it is clear that in many third countries the current consular coverage is not satisfactory. it creates an additional necessity to rely on external service providers and commercial intermediaries. it seems that, contrary to the visa code, such a practice is not the last resort, as we wanted it to be. such shortcomings should be addressed in the review of the visa code. the common application centres are a useful tool which should become standard in the future, but for the time being there are too few of them. member states are not very interested, despite the possibility of obtaining co-financing from the external borders fund. we also regret that the commission has not presented the study on the possibility of a common european issuing mechanism for short-term visas.
in writing. - i supported the amendments to the tobacco directive because i believe that we need to combat the spread of smoking in europe, which causes thousands of premature deaths of young people every year. it is not naive to think that these regulations will restrict existing smokers. their purpose is to discourage young people whose consciousness is still developing from smoking. for those who object to these amendments, i can only ask you to consider whether you would like your child to start smoking now.
mr president, i voted against this resolution, as the description and assessment of recent events in ukraine are made superficially and given a unilateral interpretation in this text. the resolution contains many impracticable appeals. for example, there is a call to the ukrainian parliament and the incoming government to respect the rights of minorities in the country and the use of russian and other minority languages, but who will realise this request? mr yatsenyuk is a candidate for the post of prime minister; i would like to remind you that only in 2012 he was the leader of protest actions against the newly adopted and highly compromised law on regional languages. i won’t even mention the representatives of the radical nationalist svoboda party. i was extremely surprised at the statement made yesterday by commissioner füle that oleh tyahnybok is a big democrat. from where did he draw this conclusion?
in writing. - i voted for this resolution because i support ukraine's integration into the european union. i am glad that we have managed to get the resolution to clearly indicate to ukraine the path towards becoming a member of the european union. a week ago, i was in kiev, meeting with people in maidan square. we need to help ukraine, because the hardest part is yet to come. the loyalty of the eastern and southern parts of ukraine to the central power of a united ukraine remains unclear. there is now a high risk that imperial forces in russia will try to promote separatism in crimea and some areas of eastern ukraine. the west must draw a clear red line that russia cannot cross. this 'red line' must be credibly protected by economic and, if necessary, military-political arguments, such as a military presence in the black sea. ukraine would need a €25 billion financial assistance package over the next two years. the leading role in the formation of this financial package should be taken by germany, which for geopolitical reasons has the most direct interest in the stability of ukraine, and by the uk, which has the largest number of ukrainian oligarchs' millions invested in its bank accounts and real estate. the us and the european commission, in cooperation with the international monetary fund and the world bank, must also play their part in the development of this financial package.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. attention, please. on 16 march, a parade of veterans of the waffen ss volunteer legion will be held in riga, the capital of latvia, on the territory of the european union. the latvian ss volunteer legion was formed from third reich army battalions that had sworn allegiance to adolf hitler. these heroes destroyed one and a half thousand villages, killed more than 150 000 peaceful inhabitants of lithuania, latvia, poland, russia and belarus. the nuremberg tribunal defined the waffen-ss as criminals, yet here in the european parliament, everyone pretends that nothing is happening. there is a very good russian expression, "народ, который не помнит свою историю, не имеет будущего", which means, "a people that does not remember its history has no future". as long as the waffen ss criminals are marching around europe, europe has no future. thank you.
the rapporteur. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say something. first of all, i should like to thank everyone who worked on this report, in particular my co-rapporteur, mrs sargentini, and other colleagues from all the political groups. i don't think it was an easy job, but the result we've achieved is really remarkable. for example, imagine that a child walks into a candy store. he takes a piece of candy, puts it in his pocket, and walks out the door without paying. you've heard of this happening, and you might say, "well, you know, maybe the damage to that store isn't that bad". but now imagine if not just one child steals sweets from this store once in a while, but all the children in the village do so regularly! what is the result? of course, the store will collapse, the shopkeeper will have no money, he will not be able to support his family, and in effect, a part of this society will collapse. in fact, something like this is happening in the world, and i would call it systematic fraud. up to 5% of the world's gross domestic product is generated by the legalization of illegally obtained money, the so-called money laundering. where to look for a big problem the problem is that, first of all, it hurts the business environment, because most companies pay taxes, but those who legalize illegal money do not participate in the system. they therefore destroy the competitive situation on the market. secondly, it directly harms us, all members of society across the european union, because this money is not taxed, so it cannot supplement our health care, our education, our pensions and so on. so the whole community suffers. this directive is, in my view, a serious step towards changing and improving the situation. the main thing we are proposing on behalf of parliament is to establish a register of beneficial owners at european union level. such a register of beneficial owners throughout the european union reveals which individual is behind which company. it would be like a store where children steal candy - if there was a guard at the door or a video surveillance system that could see who had taken what candy and who should pay for it. also, if we have such a register of beneficial owners, then the relevant services will know which individual has to pay how much and what taxes in which member state. it's the same thing. this directive will also, in my view, considerably strengthen the role of the commission. the commission will play a coordinating role in helping to identify these existing 'loopholes' that criminals exploit, and thus limit their ability to steal from us all. you guys! by supporting this directive, we will be doing serious damage to the criminal world. today's vote is for the "yes". it will be a good day for honest european citizens, but a bad day for criminals. thank you for your attention.
the speaker. - mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. ladies and gentlemen, first of all, i really must thank everyone who took part in today's debate. it is important that we now put our words into action by voting on this report. it would be naive to think that by passing a single law we can rid europe of crime. of course, that is not possible. but the adoption of this law, which will establish a register of beneficial owners at european union level, will be a major help to those law enforcement agencies that are actively fighting crime. i repeat, if a child goes into a store, takes a pack, puts it in his pocket, and leaves without paying, it may not have much impact on the store or on society as a whole. but if this is done systematically, then such shops will be destroyed. and systematically in the european union we have money laundering or so-called 'money laundering' and by setting up this register of genuine beneficiaries, we will find out who is behind which company, so that we can understand who has to pay how much tax. it's just like if we put a video surveillance system in the same store where kids steal candy, or we put multiple guards in there that can see which kid has taken which candy and know which one has to pay at the checkout. we will do our job as legislators, we will support this directive. thank you for your attention.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. march 21st, the russian dome will annex crimea. russia bases this on the right to defend its citizens abroad. it is a dangerous concept that threatens european stability and the existing borders of nations. with this act of annexation, russia has gone from being an unwelcome european partner to a threat to the stability of our continent. the annexation of crimea has put eastern ukraine, then moldova, and the baltic states at risk. that's why russia must be stopped now. europe needs to re-examine its relationship with russia, to reduce its dependence on russian energy resources rapidly, and this can be done in a few years. europe must agree on effective sanctions that hit russia in the most vulnerable places. russia's participation in the osce and the council of europe, whose statutes it has grossly violated, must also be stopped. the crisis in ukraine is a testament to the importance of transatlantic relations. (the chairman interrupts the speaker.)
mr president, we can call on our draft resolution for as inclusive as possible a government in ukraine in order to minimise the risk of renewed violence, but how do you hope to minimise such a risk if you do not call for an investigation into the violence which has already taken place? in one recent tv discussion i supposed that in 10 years we will discover who really was behind the snipers in kiev, the way it was with the snipers in riga and vilnius in january 1991. but today all secrets become open much more quickly. a week ago a record of telephone conversations between estonian foreign minister paet and vice-president/high representative catherine ashton appeared on the internet. the minister told her that there was now an increasingly powerful suspicion that behind the snipers it was not yanukovych, but somebody from the new coalition. how can people all over ukraine – including crimea – not be afraid of new provocations and murders if catherine ashton did not react in any way to this shocking … (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. if an accidental house fire occurs, what do we do? we're calling the fire department, and they're coming as soon as they can. and when they arrive, they have to do everything they can to put out the flames. that means they come in with their water wells, which have a lot of water. they may come with axes to break down a window or to break down a door to reach the flames. but their main task in this crisis is to put out the flames. then, when the flames are extinguished, of course, everything is wet, maybe something is broken. after the firemen, the carpenters come to put it all back together. what has happened to the european union? in fact, we have had this kind of fire at member state level because of the crisis. there was a fire, a real crisis in national budgets, when it seemed that several countries of the european union were going bankrupt. and they called the firefighters, who in this case were a trio of the european central bank, the european commission and the international monetary fund, who, like the firefighters, were running over the water, running over the money, to put out the effects and the dangers that these countries had taken over. as a result, no member state of the european union has gone bankrupt, and no euro area country has been pushed out of the euro area. so, colleagues, if you want to criticize the trio, i understand that the criticism is justified, but you can also criticize the firefighters. if it wasn't for the triad, the situation wouldn't be saved. it is better not to complain about the triangle, but to think about how to continue reforms so that such crises do not occur in the future, so that a new fire does not occur. and that's what we have to work on. thank you for your attention.
mr president, i voted against this resolution. first of all, i am shocked that colleagues did not support the amendment demanding the independent and transparent investigation of all acts of violence. secondly, the resolution points out that, according to the ukrainian constitution, the autonomous republic of crimea can only organise referendums on local matters and not on modifying the internationally-recognised borders of ukraine. but are there no double standards here? was the secession of kosovo carried out in accordance with the serbian constitution? as the international court of justice pointed out in its 2010 advisory opinion on the unilateral declaration of independence by kosovo, general international law contains no applicable prohibition of declarations of independence. last but not least, what about the freedoms granted by the european convention? the recent decision of the ukrainian authorities to ban cable networks from translating tv channels into russian is a new attack on the russian speakers there.
mr president, my speech is on the violation of freedom of expression in the eu. since last monday, the transmission of several russian tv channels in the territory of my country, latvia, as well as of neighbouring lithuania, has been stopped for three months according to a decision by the appropriate supervisory bodies. the cause was discontent at the coverage of the events in ukraine by these channels. this case is an evident violation of article 11 of the eu charter of fundamental rights which states: that everyone has the right to freedom of expression; that this right shall include freedom to hold opinions and to receive and impart information and ideas without interference by public authority and regardless of frontiers; and that the freedom and pluralism of the media shall be respected. in latvia the decision has been contested before the court. i hope very much that the court will stop the violation of our constitution and the charter. estimates of events in ukraine differ very much, but all the positions have the right to be stated and heard.
in writing. - i consider that the commission's proposal for a regulation was incomplete, as it provided that funding could be granted to promote products on the market of third countries. this would mean that representatives of smaller countries would not be able to use this funding in practice, as only large countries can divert funding to carry out a visible campaign in third countries. thanks to mrs garcia, the epp group's representative, we have adopted today a balanced report which also provides for funding for the promotion of products on the eu internal market. i can thank the rapporteur, mrs garcia, for taking my amendments into account and supporting latvia's position.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. i think that the citizens of the european union in eastern and central europe remember the imperial power, no matter what it's called - the soviet union or the russian empire. and these citizens - european union citizens - want to see clear action from european politicians, not another resolution that the russian ambassador will send back to us in brussels, as he did with last month's resolution. we can, of course, call the soldiers and officers of the special task forces of the russian army separatists. we can of course be alarmed by the russian pressure on the eastern partnership countries. at the same time, if ukraine, as the largest eastern partnership country and the largest former soviet union country, is destroyed and destroyed by russia, then there is no point in all the other eastern partnership countries following the path of the european union. and if on 17 april our talks are weak and with weak positions, including sanctions against russia and very serious sanctions, then we will be ashamed, colleagues!
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. - mr president, i always wish for this audience. we have never been striving to create new dividing lines in europe. quite on the contrary: our offer to work with our eastern partners and russia – which is our neighbour, but also a neighbour of our neighbours – towards establishing a common area of prosperity, stability and democracy on our continent still stands. we have used numerous opportunities to dispel a zero-sum logic and clarify to russia that the association agreements for the eastern european partners will not harm russian economic interests. quite on the contrary: russian business will gain. yet at the moment we are facing the most serious crisis in europe since the end of world war ii. we are witnessing economic coercion, threats and covert action to instigate protest and instability, which are meant not only to dissuade the ukranian people from taking up new opportunities but also to dissuade us from defending their freedom of choice, and to convince us to drop our policies, values and principles and accept the logic of the sphere of influence. but this would equate to ignoring the lessons of the last century in this continent. i believe it is time to show an even stronger, more determined and resolute commitment to the eastern partnership. the people of ukraine, its independence and sovereignty should not become victims of geopolitical zero-sum games. we will always support – and stand by – those who are subject to undue pressures. the main principle of the eastern partnership is that we engage on the basis of common values: respect for and the promotion of human rights and freedoms, democracy and the rule of law. reflecting on your debate, let me mention the two issues i am concerned about. the first is russian propaganda. it is more aggressive than at the time of the cold war and also more dangerous, because it is no longer restrained by the iron curtain of the cold war, nor by its effects and implications. we need more objective information – like something you mentioned yourself: the very recent report by the office of the high commissioner for human rights at the united nations, underlining the fact that the misinformation, propaganda and incitement to hatred must urgently be countered. we also need to be strong and clear, on the basis of our values and principles, and resolute in defending them. talking of principles brings me to the second point. it has been mentioned in our debate that the cold war did not end with a peace treaty. i agree that it did not. it ended in a much more appropriate way. it has freed and empowered those behind the iron curtain to make a free choice about their future. it has reunited europe in an unprecedented way, creating the conditions for peace, stability and prosperity throughout the whole continent. our eastern european partners have had a rocky past. they deserve a different future. no one should doubt the importance of our eastern european partners for the european union. (applause)
in writing. russia has intervened in the second stage of the destabilization plan in ukraine. he is responsible for the repression of the 'people's republic of crimea' and the 'crimean people's republic'. while ukraine is being torn apart, european leaders are engaged in beauty. europe cannot agree to an arms embargo or economic sanctions against russia. every time we have to be worried, we have to make sure that the lessons of history are forgotten very quickly. the crisis in ukraine has shown that the eu's soft power is too weak. we must build the capacity to defend our values and our partners against security threats. most eu member states are nato members, which provides a real basis for the most intensive cooperation between the two organisations. then we won't be so powerful in the future. the second imperative is european energy independence from russian gas supplies. it will protect us and our partners from economic blackmail for political gain, and it will make it easier for our leaders to act. polls show that the majority of russians support this aggression, which confirms the corrosive power of disinformation and nationalist propaganda. this is very dangerous, because it was aggressive nationalism that was the ideology that led to the two world wars. the eu should therefore immediately launch a russian-language tv channel to help the russian people understand the dangers of the kremlin's policies. there are no winners in war!
in writing. - i supported the proposal for an animal health regulation and i would like to thank mrs paulsen for her contribution to the adoption of this regulation today. the reporter managed to bring together the political groups and reach a compromise that we can support. i think the latvian farmers are also satisfied with the compromise reached. personally, i and the epp group voted against some of the proposals submitted to the plenary session because we considered that they were not appropriate for this regulation. finally, i would like to thank the shadow rapporteur of the eesc, elisabeth jeggle, for her contribution. this was her last message before she went on a well-deserved vacation.
in writing. - i am voting today against the approval of this law at first reading because i believe that there are still too many uncertainties in it that need to be resolved in order to be able to talk about the status and funding of european political parties. i have shared these concerns with my colleagues with the representatives of the ep, and the representatives of the council are also aware of the risks that latvia faces from this regulation. in view of the current developments in ukraine, we must be doubly careful that our legislation is not used by the enemies of the european union. i hope that the new parliamentary term will bring about solutions to the problems in this regulation in the negotiations with the council and the commission, so that it can be adopted.
madam president, i voted against this resolution. its text is the latest proof of growing russophobia, which in my opinion has become a legally-sanctioned phobia in the european union. we russian speakers living here feel it perfectly. this russophobia extends to native russian speakers in ukraine. the authors of this resolution do not treat all ukrainians as equal human beings. they do not treat those in ukraine who are against european accession as equal with those who are in favour of it. numerous examples of double standards on the rights of russian minorities, compared with the rights of other ethnic and linguistic minorities, are well known. awareness of injustice, to which the russian person always had a special sensitivity, has inevitably led to an abrupt reply. russians can take a lot of things but with them, as with a wire spring, it is dangerous to rap too strongly. events in the crimea and eastern ukraine are a reflection of this situation, which developed 22 years after the collapse of the ussr. i say to the european union: in order for the countries of eastern europe not to turn away from it, it is necessary to demonstrate an equal attitude to all european residents.
blue-card question. – mr maštálka, when you say that it is a european association agreement which is the cause of all the war and military activity and disruption of civil life in ukraine, it reminds me very much of a comment i have heard from men – that when a woman is raped, she has asked for it. could you answer me on that point?
after the provocations of the last few days on the russian-ukrainian border, after the russian armed forces invaded the donetsk region, we are probably hours or days away from a real war between the nuclear powers russia and ukraine. putin's goal is to make ukraine a non-defeated state. but let us not be deluded. putin is not going to stop with ukraine. his dream is to regain control of the entire former soviet empire. i therefore call on you, ladies and gentlemen, to face up to this grim reality and to impose the third level of sanctions, including the arms and technology embargo, on russia as a matter of urgency. such a decision would cause russia to stop and abandon its revanchist aims. the main beneficiary of europe's inability to act in unity is putin, but the real loser is europe, which we have combined with great determination and political will after the collapse of the ussr. ukraine also has the right to belong to this europe. thank you. (the president agreed to reply to the question on the blue card (rule 162 (8)))
the blue card issue. lady of the hill! you spoke about sanctions against the russian federation, but you know that the country that both you and i represent, namely latvia, is a border country which can expect a reaction from russia, a country whose economy can suffer greatly from a russian reaction. speaking of sanctions, are you aware that this pressure will also be directed towards the baltic states and towards latvia? thank you.
answer to the blue card question. i am aware that this will be a blow to all of us, to all of europe. but a far greater threat to latvia, estonia, lithuania, poland, and others is russia's growing aggressiveness. so if something irreversible happens, the economic cost to europe is much higher. we have other means of diversifying europe's energy supply within a year and a half, and we must act immediately to create a european energy union.
mr president, it is regrettable that high representative ashton is not with us here today. just after the tragic events in odessa of 2 may 2014 – when over 40 people were burned alive or were beaten to death in the trade unions house – i sent a letter to baroness ashton asking her to start a procedure to include the ukrainian right sector group on the eu list of designated terrorist organisations. the trade unions house was set on fire by right sector activists after they surrounded and destroyed the tent encampment of anti-government protestors. baroness ashton, in her answer to my letter, said that these incidents must be thoroughly investigated and all those responsible brought to justice. there is no word on who will carry out an independent investigation of this event. moreover, it is necessary to make a parallel investigation into whether the right sector fits in with the concept of a terrorist organisation. i urge mr füle to carry out all of the actions which are required for this purpose.
for the ecr group i would like to begin by greeting the rapporteur, mr langen, and also all those who have been involved here as shadow rapporteurs, and also my lithuanian colleagues here in the european parliament. the european conservatives and reformists group, of course, have very different views on participating in the euro. there are representatives of member states that do not evaluate participating in the euro at all, there are countries that joined the eurozone even during the crisis. and i want to say that the ecr always respects the choice of the member states, because it consists of so many aspects of why one or another country joined or did not join the euro area. i am personally pleased that the three baltic states are the only countries that have joined the euro area during the crisis. and this, i think, is a very important step with lithuania joining the eurozone from the beginning of next year. and this year, i think, the eurozone also has a geopolitical dimension, at least in countries like the baltic states, because the national currency in a small country is a known threat to an aggressive initiator. so i congratulate my lithuanian colleagues and i want to say that all the criteria for the convergence report have been met, but i would like to say a few words about the two aspects that are also mentioned in the explanations of the rapporteur. first, the financial sector. i am pleased that the lithuanian financial sector is still less dependent on cash flows from non-residents in third countries, as it is unfortunately in some other countries, such as my country latvia. and the second position is on the energy sector in lithuania, where i would also like to pay tribute to the last lithuanian governments, which have created the opportunity to diversify gas supply in the energy sector in lithuania in the near future, which i think is an extremely important achievement for the future. so, welcome back to lithuania! and the baltic states are in the eurozone. thank you.
first, i congratulated lithuania on the work it has done to ensure financial stability and sustainable economic growth. the progress made is clearly demonstrated by the fact that lithuania fulfils all the maastricht criteria and is ready to adopt the euro on 1 january 2015. the introduction of the euro in lithuania, as in latvia, will contribute to economic growth and welfare. first, it will allow for lower interest rates for public and private borrowing, as the exchange rate risk between the litu and the euro will disappear. the financial markets and international credit rating agencies also see the eurozone as a positive sign for the country's financial stability. secondly, the costs of currency conversion between the litau and the euro will disappear. in small and open economies like the baltic states, this is a fairly significant cost factor. third, the introduction of the euro will make the country more attractive to foreign direct investment, as it is safer and more understandable for investors to work with the euro rather than with various small national currencies. the introduction of the euro in lithuania is a positive sign for all the baltic states. it reaffirms the baltic states' achievements in ensuring financial stability and economic growth, and demonstrates the region's attractiveness to investment. lithuania's accession to the euro will also remove the last currency barrier between the baltic states, which will undoubtedly facilitate trade in the region. this is particularly important for latvia, as lithuania is latvia's largest trading partner. the introduction of the euro in lithuania is also good news for the euro area as a whole. despite recent fears of problems and even possible collapse for the euro area, we are seeing the exact opposite: the euro area continues to expand and strengthen. welcome to the euro area, lithuania.
mr president, i voted against this resolution. i am shocked that a number of colleagues who were authors of the epʼs previous nine resolutions on the ukraine-eastern partnership countries and russia, based on a so-called zero sum game approach to our relations with ukraine – these resolutions adopted in september to april – do not feel their responsibility for the terrible bloody events in ukraine in may, june and july. why did you take the word ‘odessaʼ out of the drafts? you are continuing to produce exactly the same kind of texts based on treating those in ukraine who are against european accession unequally with those who are in favour. you even deprive the first category of the right to be ukrainians: see paragraph 8 of the resolution. i want to remind you that according to an independent survey conducted in december immediately after the maidan revolt was launched, 49% of ukrainians identified themselves as supporters of maidan while 45% were opposed to it. as regards foreign actors: russia is mentioned 33 times in the said resolution while the united states is not mentioned at all ... (the president cut off the speaker)
in writing. european farmers are currently experiencing difficult times due to russia's decision to ban agricultural imports from the european union. for example, the purchase price of milk in latvia has fallen by 30% or 40% in a few weeks and is now below 19 cents per litre. milk processing companies are also suffering significant losses due to the closure of the russian market. the milk quota is currently 99,1% filled by latvian farmers. a cow is not a machine that can be turned off. it continues to produce milk. i therefore consider that the eu institutions should take a decision not to impose an overrun fine in the months remaining until the quota is abolished in 2015. such a decision would help to preserve many dairy farms in central and eastern europe. but today, under embargo, it's not just an economic decision, it requires political will. i am interested in the european commission's view on whether fines could be waived for countries that have exceeded milk quotas and what support would be available to milk producers (i.e. farmers) as the cap measures only apply to milk processing.
mr president, commissioner, europe is a soft power but this does not mean that it should be defenceless and trade sophisticated arms to aggressive regimes on its borders. it would be both highly symbolic and practically important to cancel definitively the sale of mistral-class warships to russia and purchase them instead for use in eu-related missions. i believe that delaying the provisional application of the association agreement with ukraine, under pressure from russia, weakens ukraine’s link with the eu. it is an ominous sign of what the end game might be in russia’s war against ukraine’s european choice. be aware that the world has not changed in a few months. some of us might like to hope that after a few months we could get back to business as usual with russia, but unfortunately, for years to come, russia will be not a strategic partner for europe but rather a strategic challenge. we will have to take united action in the face of that challenge.
mr president, i voted against consent to the agreement. i regard this agreement as a badly prepared, extremely irresponsible and especially politicised decision. in three days we will be celebrating a very important anniversary: just 51 years will have passed since a similar agreement with turkey – and where is the eu now in our relations with that country? i recommend that we remind them of that – those naïve, naïvely dreaming people in ukraine who hope for a fast advance on the question of their country’s membership of the european union, for a free visa regime, just promised irresponsibly by mr poroshenko. we are inviting new inhabitants to enter the house of the eu which now needs to be profoundly rebuilt; and therefore our decision is completely irresponsible.
in writing. - i voted "yes" because ukraine's move towards europe and the association agreement between ukraine and the eu is a good thing. the party "saskaņa" in the latvian parliament also voted "for" at the time, because, despite recent events, it will allow ukraine to also introduce european standards in several aspects, as well as to strengthen real, not fictitious, democracy in the country of ukraine.
in writing. - i voted in favour because, in fact, this decision is directly linked to the ratification of the general association agreement. the party has also always supported ukraine's rapprochement with the eu, maintaining good relations with all its neighbouring countries.
on behalf of the ppe group a lot of us have kids. and what do we as parents understand very well? we realize that a good education will provide our children with a future. it means a lot of time, it means a lot of money for families and for society as a whole, but it's an investment that we all understand our children need to make in order to grow up and be able to take care of themselves. looking at the european union in general, it seems that all the political forces have understood that if we want to see economic growth, new jobs in the future, we have to invest a lot of money in science. it's long-term money that will pay off in the long run. and we, in the european union, in the multiannual budget -- the seven-year budget -- we worked for about three years with the council of europe, with the member states, also in the development of a programme called horizon 2020, which provides european union funding for the development of science. i think it is completely incomprehensible and totally unacceptable that the european council member states now suddenly want to change this funding, drastically reducing what has been carefully designed and planned for the long term. i call on you not to support this change in the council's position. we need to have that funding for science so that we can have the growth in europe in the future, the jobs that we all need. let's fund the science! we will fund the horizon 2020 programme!
when my father was a little boy, people used to travel mostly by horse. he told me as a boy that to get to riga, the capital, about 110 kilometers away, was a two-day journey. in a short time, considering how the world has changed - not only can we now make calls to anywhere in the world with our mobile phones, using the internet to go around the world, but here in the plenary today, it was not surprising or technologically exciting that there was a live broadcast between the european parliament and the ukrainian parliament during the ratification of the eu-ukraine cooperation agreement. the difficulty is that while technology is advancing rapidly, our legislation is lagging far behind. and this so-called digital market, which has enormous economic potential, is still very fragmented, and we have a lot of barriers to this market functioning properly and normally. for example, we have big questions about consumer protection. we have a weak data protection system. we still have a vague copyright issue that goes on between member states. and that means that we, with the support of the commission, must continue our work to liberalise this digital single market as a matter of urgency. because here's the key, if we talk about how we can get economic growth in europe, is by opening up this digital market, by bringing them into the single market. we have to overcome the obstacles.
madam president, i voted against this resolution. i am sure that a number of colleagues are continuing to produce the very same kinds of texts based on a one-sided approach to the events in ukraine. just one concrete example. in a number of reports by international ngos, and amnesty international in particular, the ukrainian government is accused of harsh human rights violations during so-called ‘anti-terror’ operations in the east. the initial text of our resolution, when referring to these reports, speaks about violations perpetrated mainly by regular russian troops and separatists and in some cases also by government forces. nevertheless, even this very wrong presentation of ngo findings was washed out during the vote by the majority of this parliament.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the situation in ukraine and europe's relations with russia, as the ep repeatedly condemned russia's 'hybrid war' against ukraine and expressed serious concern about a possible further offensive by russian troops with the aim of establishing an 'overland corridor' to crimea and onwards to the piedniestria. the eu has also been working to ensure that the eu's arms export controls are properly enforced. i believe that we must adopt clearly defined indicators, compliance with which would allow the suspension or lifting of sanctions against russia. the use of eu funds other than those for agriculture should also be considered to reduce the impact of 'pre-sanctions'. i think it is important that the ep resolution stresses that eu and nato members can supply ukraine with the weapons, equipment and technologies needed for its security and defence at the bilateral level and that ukraine has every right to apply for eu membership in the future.
in writing. - i voted against this resolution overall, although it was not a staff vote (as in july 2014) and meps voted by show of hands. i raised my hand to "no". although i supported some of the amendments to the resolution by my group in the personnel vote (on a political rather than military solution to the conflict, etc.), the resolution as a whole was unfortunately not conducive to the development of political dialogue between russia and the eu.
in writing. - the european union must take more active action in the fight against ebola. it's a matter of opinion.
in writing. - the protection of national minorities is also one of the main aspects of the party's programme. the eu cannot accept a situation where the rights of national minorities are not respected in both iraq and syria.
in writing. - unfortunately, this country is still a long way from true democracy and a harmonized civil society.
in writing. - the s&d group's position was to vote against as a whole, and i (as a member of the socialist and democratic group) followed the discipline of the group.
in writing. - i voted yes because that was the position of the socialist political group. the spanish proposal is in line with my political convictions and policy of action in the context of globalisation.
in writing. - i voted for it because that was the position of our social democratic group.
in writing. - i voted in favour because that was also the position of the socialist group in the european parliament.
in writing. - i voted for today because that was the position of the socialist political group, and it is a show of solidarity.
mr president, colleagues! as the crisis in ukraine worsens, energy security policy becomes of vital importance not only for ukraine but for europe as a whole. in europe we are dependent on russian energy supplies, especially gas supplies. but we see russia using these supplies as a political weapon in ukraine. this unfortunately means that russia is no longer a stable and reliable partner for the european union in this matter. it is therefore vital that the european council raises european energy security policy to the highest level. first, the development of the european union's energy networks must be accelerated, so that member states can be more confident that energy supplies can flow between member states, thus also relieving the baltic states and finland of this energy isolation. secondly, we must move quickly towards an energy union so that the european union can speak with one voice with russia as a supplier. we must put an end to russia's ability to use its power and influence. we must realize that the member states of the european union must stop thinking individually and start thinking together. it is time to take the european union's energy union forward. thank you for your attention.
drafting of the opinion of the committee on transport and tourism. - mr president! - what are you doing? overall, the transport committee is pleased that the funding under the 'mobility and transport' heading of the expenditure will be increased in 2015 compared to this year and 2014. at the same time, the transport committee regrets that the budget committee did not support our proposals to increase the appropriations for the connecting europe facility, which is of enormous importance not only in the field of transport but also geopolitically, especially in eastern europe. however, it is positive that the committee on budgets agrees that funding should be maintained at the level proposed by the commission, and i think that this is a good position in negotiations with the council in the transport sector itself. i would also like to mention a few minor points. and we see that cycling and bicycle lanes are also developing as a form of transport. therefore, our internal proposal not to increase the expenditure on the development of bicycle infrastructure within the transport budget seems to us to be still a relevant issue. thank you.
today, the commission will be approved. this will not be the best or the worst commission in the history of the european union. we'll approve both hot and not-so-hot candidates. the best from estonia, lithuania, poland, italy and the least skilled. it is important for me, as the latvian representative, that the commission be confirmed, because latvia's presidency of the european union will begin in two months' time, and our government needs a partner with all the powers in brussels with whom to talk. and i would like to say a word of encouragement to the two new commissioners only: to the commissioner for agriculture, i would like to wish that after five years the discriminatory policy towards the new member states, including the baltic farmers who receive three to four times less direct payments than the old member states, and to the commissioner for regional development, who herself comes from romania and understands perfectly well that reducing inequalities between european regions is the most important task of this five-year period. i will vote for the commission.
in writing. - the european commission's team is very diverse, and professionalism is on a par with incompetence. by voting for the whole of the commission rather than for each commissioner-designate individually, the way is also opened to politicians whose previous performance is in complete contradiction with the tasks they will have to fulfil in the new commission. it is proposed that valdis dombrovskis take up the post of vice-president of the european commission, responsible for the euro and social dialogue. mr dombrovska, as prime minister of latvia, implemented a cruel social policy. as a result, thousands of latvians have left the country, about 40 percent of the population lives in poverty, and social exclusion is huge. i don't think the guillotine is the best headache remedy. i am therefore categorically against valdis dombrovskis coordinating the social dialogue in the european union. that is why i voted against the new composition of the committee.
in writing. - i supported this decision by voting in favour, because the majority of the ep managed to get rid of the populism of the efdd political group and cut their proposals several points, thus saving eu funds in some way. there was no real commitment behind it. the budget is overall balanced and good.
in writing. - the eu must improve its relations with asia. the issue with south korea has long been settled, this was to some extent a technical vote, as croatia is now a full eu member state. i didn't write "for".
in writing. - despite the difficult situation in ukraine, it is important to support the entry of ukrainian businesses into europe, as well as the entry of european union businesses and goods into the ukrainian market. although this is a temporary decision, it is also important. when people trade, they don't fight. i voted yes.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your support. in the context of the parliamentary elections in ukraine, i would like to draw your attention to one worrying factor. voter turnout in eastern ukraine was very low at only 30-40% and this is not taking into account the regions controlled by separatists where elections did not take place at all. in previous years, this figure was 50 60%. responsible for the repression of the so-called 'people's council' of the so-called 'donetsk people's republic'. now, a lot of these people didn't vote. fellas, this low activity is a bad sign. let us remember how naive and shortsighted we europeans were in iraq. we were so excited that this country was finally on the path to democracy that we didn't even notice that a large group of people -- the sunnis -- were being excluded from the decision-making process by the pretext that they supported saddam hussein. now we see clearly the result of this blindness. sunnis supported the radicals from isis, not because they liked the ideology of the radicals, but because they felt humiliated, rejected and ignored. colleagues, we have to listen to what the people of eastern ukraine think, what they want. it's time to learn from our own mistakes.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. since the turmoil of 2009, moldova has taken several important steps towards democratization of the state, accountability to its citizens and eu integration. there are a number of issues that need to be addressed in order to bring moldova closer to eu living standards, but there are also issues such as the piedmont-moldova conflict, which has caused shadow economies and crime on a wider scale and which also affects the interests of eu countries. the eu can promote the integration of piedmont into moldova through cooperation with the de facto government of piedmont in the implementation of joint projects. the easing of trade and travel rules with the piedmont region and moldova would promote the integration of both regions and cooperation with the eu institutions. moldova is characterised by close cooperation between business and political elites, which has given rise to a shadow economy and criminal activities. the legacy of the soviet union and the socioeconomic situation are the reasons for this environment. the promotion of the independence of the executive, judiciary and legislature and the reform process in the framework of eu-moldova cooperation have led to the gradual eradication of corruption and the improvement of the business investment environment. in order to address regional issues of combating illicit trafficking and criminal organisations, it is necessary to apply a uniform eu foreign policy to conflict resolution. the eastern partnership agreement is not only a part of the eu's relations with moldova, but also a part of the wider region's foreign policy and stance, one of whose objectives is stability, prosperity, security not only in moldova but also in the eu. i'm going to support this deal.
in writing. - that's true democracy when a political group votes to waive the immunity of its colleague! although ana gomes is a member of our group, a knowledgeable mep, etc., i voted in favour of her being held to account, along with the other s&d meps. i am confident that the portuguese authorities will be clear and will decide that ana is not guilty. the example of this vote by the ep is a lesson for the latvian saeima and the unity party in latvia, where "swearing on your own" has long been a good practice.
as rapporteur for georgia, i know that georgia is on this european road with moldova. i would ask you to support the report on georgia in future plenary sessions.
in writing. - i am voting in line with the s&d group's position, as i believe that there should be a peace process and that under no circumstances should there be any future terrorist attacks in northern ireland. this is also important in the context of the european security situation. not to mention that living in peace is better than living in war. i'm sorry if that's a cliché, but it's the truth.
in writing. - i supported the basic draft resolution and voted against the amendments of the efdd political group. the situation in cyprus is so complex that at the time of the incident a turkish vessel was actually accompanied by a caravan in the waters of the cypriot exclusive economic zone. the eu has also been active in the fight against terrorism and the fight against organised crime. the european parliament has also called for the eu to take action to prevent the spread of the virus, and to ensure that the virus is contained in the country. if the eu is not satisfied, it must defend cyprus and tell turkey that it will never join the eu under these circumstances. the eu must have a clear position and this must be articulated in dialogue with turkey.
in writing. - i supported this resolution because the european union must demonstrate its firm stance on the situation in south sudan. it has been the scene of a long-running war, with more than 2 million deaths. those who survived suffered inhumane torments. the european union must do everything necessary to return this part of the country to a peaceful life. i think it's going to work.
madam president, last friday the whole of latvia commemorated the anniversary of the tragedy in riga’s zolitŭde district. one year ago, the roof of the maxima supermarket collapsed upon shoppersʼ heads. fifty-four people perished, including three rescuers. in this tragedy, 23 children lost one parent, and one child lost both father and mother. it was the gravest accident in the whole history of latvia as an independent state and the biggest catastrophe in eastern europe for the past 30 years. these people died not because of an act of terrorism, war or natural disaster, but in a time of peace, and in a shop. one year has passed, but the latvian government authorities have still not brought anybody to justice. society ... (the president cut off the speaker)
in writing. - i voted in favour because the railway network is what unites the european union and removes the obstacles to a unified economy. that was the position of our group.
in writing. - the resolution tabled by the liberal group on the opinion of the court of justice of the european union on the eu-canada agreement on the processing and transfer of passenger name record (pnr) data to the canadian border agency cannot be supported, as the waiting for the opinion of the court of justice of the eu requested in it will take several years and will effectively suspend the possibility of regulating the exchange of pnr data with third countries at eu level. the processing and analysis of passenger data, while respecting strict data protection principles, is an essential mechanism for combating and preventing organised crime and terrorism. threats both within the eu and internationally demonstrate the need for an effective instrument to mitigate and prevent these threats. several third countries are now interested in starting to process pnr data for flights to and from the eu. however, if it is not possible to conclude in the near future a uniform eu-wide regulation for the transfer of pnr data to third countries, there is a risk that this processing of passenger data will be very chaotic, as airlines will have to do so under 28 different, different and difficult to reconcile national regulations, and the chaotic and fragmented system will reduce the level of protection of personal data. it should be noted that the eu-canada pnr agreement is not new, it was concluded in 2005 and is currently under review. the necessary safeguards for the protection of personal data, as set out in the judgment of the court of justice of the eu referred to in the resolution, will be provided for in the eu-canada pnr agreement.
in writing. - it's one of the founding documents of the social democrats! promoting employment is the priority now after the severe crisis. the €300 billion pledged by the new commission under juncker will not do anything without job creation and a well thought-out social policy at eu level. i voted with my group.
mr president, colleagues! we actually have a very big challenge. on the one hand, not only in europe but worldwide, we need to reduce co2 emissions to combat global warming, on the other hand, it is important for us, especially in europe, to preserve jobs and promote economic growth. and there are actually two ways that we could reduce this co2 emissions, which will have different impacts directly on our economy. the first way is that europe is getting more and more rigorous, in our own union, in demanding that industry reduce co2 emissions, and as a result some of the industry will be interested in moving outside the eu to countries like china, where they don't want these co2 emission quotas, and you could say that europe would reduce co2 emissions, but on a global scale it wouldn't happen, because emissions would continue in china, maybe even more, because there is no limit. the other way to do the same is to get the lima conference to say that it is an international agreement to reduce co2 emissions not only in europe, but also in the rest of the world and in china. this will eliminate the need or the ability of industry to flee europe to continue polluting the air from abroad, keep jobs in europe, and invest in modern technologies. in short, an international agreement is needed to keep industry in the european union.
in writing. - i voted in favour of, because it is extremely important to support the un climate change conference, giving political support from the eu to the conference to be held in the peruvian capital at the beginning of december.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. what do we need in europe? it's the same thing over and over again. we need economic growth, we need new jobs. how can we reach that goal? one way might be to invest more and more money in the economy. the difficulty with this approach is that our member states are already so deeply in debt that we cannot afford to borrow more money to try to stimulate our economy. it's just going to take us deeper into the post. what other options do we have? the second option we have is the legislative option itself to improve the conditions so that this economic growth can happen. we have a single market in europe, which we all know is not fully functioning in virtually any area. but one area where we know the single market is not working at all is the digital market. it's spread across 28 different member states: we have different regulations, different taxes, and it's hard for companies to work across national borders. if we take the right steps, at the initiative of the commission, to dismantle these barriers to the digital single market, we will actually be contributing to economic growth without forcing or asking our member states to increase deficits, borrow money, and invest. so we can achieve economic growth in europe by promoting the creation of a digital single market, not increasing the debts of member states and having a solid foundation for our future. thank you for your attention.
in writing. - i was one of 88 mps who abstained. the question of juncker's tax havens is more than timely and important. it is also a question of juncker's principles. and i'm all for these cases being investigated thoroughly and the public getting answers. however, this question was raised by the efdd political group, which aims to destroy the european union. that's not my goal. because the wrong politicians asked the right question, i decided to hold off. but juncker has to answer and be clear.
in writing. - given that the investigation process, which has just been launched in relation to information on the fraudulent tax collection policy of the luxembourg government during the period when the current president of the european commission, jean-claude juncker, was prime minister of that country, has not yet been concluded, i abstained in the european parliament's vote of no confidence in the european commission. although there are serious concerns that the luxembourg government, led by mr juncker, has for a long time been developing dishonest tax optimisation schemes, by depriving other eu countries of the opportunity to collect taxes fairly, i, like a significant part of the ecr group members i represent, nevertheless believe that the correctness should be maintained and the results of the investigation process awaited. however, despite his stance in today's vote, i believe that it will be very difficult for juncker to prove that the recent scandalous information about tax collection schemes is not true or that he, as head of government at the time, is not responsible for the tax policy of the state, thus blaming the tax administrators. therefore, in the interests of a fair investigation procedure on this matter, i accept that, in the light of the involvement of president juncker of the european commission in the fraudulent luxembourg tax optimisation, the position of members of parliament from not only my group and my group but also from other political groups represented in the european parliament on this matter in future votes may differ from that presented in today's vote.
in writing. - i voted in favour because the resolution was drafted by the committee responsible in a good and qualitative manner and because it was fully in line with the position of my political group.
in writing. - we cannot delay such a vital eu sector as cohesion policy. i voted with my group in favour.
in writing. - despite the anniversary of such an important convention, children's rights are not respected everywhere in the world and not always respected. the european union has a long way to go to ensure that all the children of our planet are healthy, happy and become well-educated citizens of their own countries. i voted yes!
in writing. i supported the motion for a resolution on the safeguarding of consumer rights in the digital single market at the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg, as it will allow consumers to benefit safely from the benefits that the digital single market could bring. the completion of the digital single market requires a clear understanding that consumers will be protected from various cybercrimes, privacy or other types of breaches, for example when they shop online. this proposal also highlights the importance and benefits of the creation of a digital single market, which could reach up to eur 260 billion per year. this would be of great benefit to latvian businesses and the population in general. however, i am voting against paragraph 10 of this resolution, which calls on the commission to consider proposals aimed at separating large internet technology companies such as google from other commercial services, because such a proposal threatens the free market. it is important to remember the laissez faire slogan, which means the non-interference of the government in economic processes to maintain the equilibrium of the market mechanism.
in writing. - i voted for the resolution as a whole, but i couldn't support certain amendments. the digital market is the future of the european economy, but the interests of big countries and corporations were also reflected in this document and in the debates. but overall, latvia will only benefit in the future by developing a digital footprint.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because we europeans sometimes do not even think about the fact that at the beginning of the 21st century there are thousands and hundreds of thousands of children who are not fed and who are even dying of malnutrition. much remains to be done to bring the standard of living in developing countries to at least the average in the european union. and not the worst thing that can happen, the starvation of children.
the president! i'm sorry, but i'm not going to tell you. i didn't hear your speech, but i know your point. i'm a little late. i'm honored that you're here for your first fireworks in this building, in this room. in fact, when we are debating today the comitology procedure regulation on the classification of serious infringements by road hauliers, we are talking about the internal market for road haulage. and let's be honest, colleagues, this reminds me very much of the services directive debate here a few years ago, where the political views of employers and employees often coincided depending on the geographical aspect of the european union. and so it is today. we often say that there is no more in your delegated act. but there is. there are fatigue requirements, there are technical requirements. what there probably is is no social dumping, no availability of so-called illegal cabotage, although in 2009 we decided that this cabotage would be on the road transport market, etc. here i would like to know that i am in the minority and will be one of the few who will support your proposal, say a few words in english immediately so that my colleagues can understand my point. we have to look to our house as well sometimes. we have rules here in this house for our local assistants. this is clearly social dumping. it is not admissible that local assistants from bulgaria should be paid eleven times less than danish local assistants! so what is this called? it is social dumping. we are pushing our local assistants into a lower quality of life; they are not sleeping very well, their beds are so bad, and they are not eating properly and so on and they are giving advice to our meps! the only good thing is that we meps from eastern europe are not creating a safety hazard for political decisions here. i am, of course, being sarcastic. but we have to think about it, about what we're talking about here sometimes.
madam president, i feel proud being a woman. i will continue in latvian. tam, ka eiropas parlaments paplašina autonomās tirdzniecības preferences moldovai, ir ne tikai praktiski ekonomiska, bet arī politiska nozīme. tā eiropas savienība parāda savu spēju konkrēti rīkoties, lai atbalstītu demokrātiju eiropas kaimiņos. svarīgi, ka šīs priekšrocības dos moldovas tautsaimniecībai tūlītēju atvieglojumu, un tas neradīs gandrīz nekādu ietekmi eiropas savienības tirgū. šīs priekšrocības ir piemērs, kā eiropas savienība var līdzsvarot putina krievijas centienus „sodīt” tās eiropas valstis un tautas, kas izvēlas eiropas attīstības ceļu. pirms dažām nedēļām moldovas parlamenta vēlēšanās uzvarēja proeiropeiskās politiskās partijas, un mēs sagaidām, ka nākamā valdība turpinās reformas, kuras nepieciešamas, lai moldovas izvēlētais eiropas integrācijas ceļš kļūtu par panākumu stāstu. eiropas parlaments ar šo lēmumu sūta vēl vienu pozitīvu signālu moldovai. tomēr tas nekādā ziņā nevar aizstāt skaidrākas eiropas savienības dalības perspektīvas sniegšanu moldovai, uz kuru diemžēl vairākums dalībvalstu un eiropas parlamenta deputātu vēl nav gatavi. paldies!
madam president, i would like to thank you for your time. we are talking about investment today - we need it in europe. where do i get it? we know that the debts of the member states are already so large that there is no money to borrow. we have only the private sector to rely on, and the private sector, although it has a lot of money, does not invest in the european economy. we have to ask the important question why the private sector is not investing in the european economy. and the answer should be (and obviously it is): 'because of lack of faith!' there is a lack of confidence that our european economy will develop, too much bureaucracy, too many regulations and too unstable government budgets. the european commission, in the person of mr juncker, is now offering us a solution to attract this private investment by bringing private money to specific projects. but, ladies and gentlemen, if the member states do not step up and actively implement the so-called structural reforms, these investments will not come from the private sector. we need to talk about bureaucratization, we need to talk about overregulation, and we need to stabilize government budgets so that money isn't spent where it's not. thank you for your attention.
in writing. it is a continuation of moldova's integration closer to the european union. these preferences will help moldovan businesses enter the european market, and this is clearly a good thing. i voted for the report.
in writing. the south american market is important to the european union and goods from this continent (including from ecuador) have earned the tariff treatment in the european union that the european parliament accepted today. i also voted against it with my group because it is the right position.
in writing. i voted for it.
in writing. i voted in favour of this decision because it was accompanied by budgetary amendments in 2014.
in writing. i voted in favour of this decision because it was accompanied by budgetary amendments in 2014.
in writing. solidarity is the fundamental philosophy of the european union. the european union has a duty to help those member states that have suffered from natural disasters: italy, greece and slovenia. i supported that decision.
in writing. it goes hand in hand with the solidarity fund, it is absolutely necessary to help our member states, i support this decision.
in writing. solidarity is the fundamental philosophy of the european union. the european union has a duty to help those eu member states and potential candidate countries that have been affected by natural disasters: serbia, croatia and bulgaria. i supported that decision.
in writing. it is good that we end the year with the adoption of the new 2015 budget. i supported that decision. economic growth is planned for next year. i vote in favour.
in writing. it is good that we end the year with the adoption of the new 2015 budget. i supported that decision. economic growth is planned for next year. i vote in favour.
in writing. fuel quality is an area on which the european union is working and constantly updating. it is about the environment and the quality of life. i (and my political group) voted in favour, but the resolution was unfortunately rejected by a majority of meps. let's keep working on it!
in writing. the social democratic political group decided to vote against the resolution, but i abstained. the idea behind the resolution was to protect the 37cm long cod in the baltic sea. the regulation now allows a length of 38 cm. i could not vote with the group against the baltic sea resources and their protection.
in writing. i voted for hatturas, even though most of my colleagues in the social democratic group were against it.
in writing. today's vote on recognising the state of palestine in principle is an important step towards peace in the middle east. i voted in favour of it with my colleagues from the group because, thanks to the tireless work of my british colleague richard hovit and my romanian colleague viktor boštinar, the resolution has achieved its objective: an absolute majority of meps have accepted this vector by voting in favour of the eventual establishment of a palestinian state and at the same time the continuation of the peace talks.
in writing. it is important to protect steelworkers when it comes to the growth of the eu economy. the social democrats tabled a number of amendments on this very point, and i voted in favour of them and of the resolution as a whole.
in writing. the european union has long been unable to develop a common policy on migrants who flee to the eu and most of whom perish in the mediterranean. i spoke to colleagues from malta - this is the first country to take in waves of migrants and it is not able to fight it alone. we need to help both refugees and malta, and we need to develop policies on legal and illegal immigration to the eu. i voted for the report.
madam president, it seems that this discussion brings together the opponents and supporters of turkey in the european union. i would like to say that we are all very much concerned by what is happening and by what the turkish government is doing. it seems that the turkish government is leaning more and more towards what we can see happening already in russia. but in talking about this, we should distinguish between turkey as a state, turkish society and the turkish government. if we take a very negative stance – as some here propose, by stopping the negotiations and starting economic sanctions – then we are actually leaving behind a very large number of liberal, democratic, eu-oriented turkish people, and in vain. millions of them share our values. i suggest that we actually have to find instruments with which we can influence the turkish government. firstly, we have to see how we can better target the assistance that we are giving to turkey as an accession country. secondly, we definitely have to work it out together with mrs mogherini’s office and commissioner hahn’s office. finally, i would like to say that we also have made our own mistakes, because by closing the 23rd and 24th chapters we are actually drifting away and we find ourselves incapable of influencing the turkish government when we need to do so.
the rapporteur. - ladies and gentlemen, i have the great honour to call the attention of the european parliament to the ratification of the association agreement between the european parliament and georgia. today we are taking a very important step towards opening up new opportunities for georgia and its people in building a stable, prosperous and successful future for europe. georgia has always been a european country, but georgian culture is an important part of european culture. according to a recent poll, 69% of georgians support the signing of the association agreement. such a large aid imposes a heavy responsibility on the authorities executors of this contract. today's ratification, tomorrow's, is the logical continuation of the work begun by the european union and georgia eight years ago with the initiation of the eu-georgia action plan. five years ago, the european union and its partners launched the eastern partnership programme, which has seen many successful projects. at first, the full implementation of this plan seemed an overly optimistic goal, but the example of georgia shows that it is not those who talk about the difficulties that will make the way, but those who do their job with purpose and persistence. i was pleasantly surprised, colleagues, to see how much the georgian government and the georgian people have achieved. it was not easy to bring about change in so many spheres of society and the economy in such a short period of time. it is very difficult to convince the public, business and political elites that rapid and sometimes painful reforms are needed. similar reforms had been undertaken in western european countries for decades, but georgia needed to do so for a few years. colleagues, a lot of work was done in the previous period, but there are many issues that need increased attention in the future such as the long-term political polarization of georgian society, the fight against corruption, the problems with the abkhazia and tskhinvali regions and south ossetia and other important issues. the association agreement imposes responsibilities on both parties. the european union must help georgia fight corruption, continue to build an independent judiciary, strengthen media freedom, protect minorities and do everything possible to ensure that the georgian people reap the full benefits of their european choice. ladies and gentlemen, i would like to point out in particular that, thanks to the association agreement, georgia could expect a number of positive developments. these include: increased trade, job creation, visa facilitation and the prospective introduction of visa-free travel, improved investment opportunities, and many other positive aspects. the european union, in turn, can benefit from joint sustainable projects in trade, energy, transport and other sectors. european entrepreneurs will find new opportunities in georgia, where they can safely invest their funds, buy or sell their goods and services. in conclusion, i would like to thank all the colleagues who have contributed to the preparation of this report and to the ratification of this treaty, in particular the shadow reporters from all the political groups, the members who have tabled their proposals. i very much hope, colleagues, for a constructive debate and a positive vote. ladies and gentlemen, i would like to say to each of you that the georgian people deserve positive change, and i hope that we, the members of the european parliament, will vote for it. thank you very much.
the blue card issue. i have a question for mr schulz: do you really believe that georgia's withdrawal from the european union would help it solve these economic problems that of course georgia has? do you really believe that the isolation of georgia will be the right goal that we can set for ourselves as members of the european parliament and the european union as a whole? thank you.
the blue card issue. i would like to ask my french colleague: speaking of the cost of enlargement and the poverty of the european union, is he also aware that the total market of the european union has increased by almost 100 million, which has allowed both french and other european companies to make a significant profit on this market? thank you.
mr president, tomorrow we are going to ratify the association agreement. i would like to reiterate that we concluded this association agreement with the whole of georgia, including its occupied territories of abkhazia and the tskhinvali region, and once again we clearly call on russia to end its occupation of these territories. in a society which overwhelmingly supports integration of the country into western institutions, including the eu, it must be the duty of the main political forces to work in the spirit of consensus for implementation of reforms which stem from the association agreement. therefore georgia’s government needs to ensure, by all means possible, that the ongoing investigations into alleged abuses do not selectively and unfairly target its political opponents. we all know that the opposition of today is the government of tomorrow. this is a consistently repeated message which applies equally to the previous and current governments of georgia. our resolution also states that georgia, like any other european state, has a european perspective and may apply to become a member of the union. i am hopeful that the day will come when georgia will become a part of the eu enlargement process. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
the blue card issue. mr. president, the honorable mrs. hill, please. i understand from your speech that you want to put one option against the other: either the country has some contacts with russia or it cooperates with the european union. could you imagine a situation where a european union associated member state is well integrated into the european union and at the same time maintains good economic relations with russia? thank you.
answer to the blue card question. - what? of course, choosing european integration and moving closer to europe does not mean shutting ourselves off from the rest of the world. for example, serbia, which is currently a candidate country with the european union, also has a free trade agreement with russia. this is of course a matter for each country to decide and of course it is also a matter for the partner country concerned. the way russia is influencing its neighbours to take a hard line on one side or the other is wrong and unacceptable.
the speaker. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the honourable mr avramopoulos! today's debate is a confirmation to me personally that the european parliament supports further political and economic reforms in georgia. the association agreement also opens up new opportunities for both georgia and the european union. it is also a sign of solidarity with the georgian people, because the european union is founded on the very idea of solidarity which is very close to us social democrats. i would like to emphasise that this partnership between georgia and the european union is not directed against third countries but aims to enhance positive cooperation. this is very important and this cooperation will benefit not only the european union and georgia, but also the whole region and all georgia's neighbours. i would like to thank once again all the colleagues who have contributed to this report and those who are now taking part in the debate. i hope that tomorrow's vote will be very positive and that you will support georgia and the georgian people, and i have to say that the president of the republic of georgia will be in this room tomorrow, and we, colleagues, will see how important ratification of this treaty is to the georgian people. thank you again for the debate.
madam president, i voted against the consent and the resolution, which bears the spirit of division and not of integration of the european continent as a whole, and of the south caucasus region in particular. the wording ‘varying levels of ambition and capacity’ with regard to the three south caucasus states is a humiliating one. the proposal to create a specific eu-georgia pcc, considering the varying scope of relations with armenia and azerbaijan, is going in that direction as well. south ossetia and abkhazia are referred to as ‘occupied territories’, and russia is called on ‘to end its occupation thereof’. this is despite the well-known eu investigation claiming that ‘open hostilities’ began with a large-scale georgian military operation against tskhinvali. the statement that ‘the association process is not a threat to russia’s political and economic interests’ remains a declaration confirmed by nothing. therefore, the assertion that ‘the eu’s engagement with the eastern partners aims to spread prosperity… from which all countries in the region will gain’ is doubtful.
in writing. the european parliament supports further political and economic reforms in georgia. the association agreement opens up new opportunities for both georgia and the european union. it is also a sign of european solidarity with the georgian people. i would like to emphasise that these partnerships are not directed against third countries, but aim to extend positive cooperation. this cooperation will benefit not only the european union and georgia, but also the entire region and georgia's neighbours. i would like to thank again all the colleagues who have contributed to this report and to those who have taken part in the debates. thank you all for the positive vote in the meeting and for your support for georgia and the georgian people.
in writing. — the european parliament’s ratification of the association agreement with georgia has opened a new chapter in european union relations with georgia. georgia has made significant progress in reforms and strengthening its relations with the eu. we welcome recent judicial reforms designed to strengthen georgia’s democratic institutions and support the efforts of georgian society to achieve further democratisation. although much work remains to be done, experience shows that georgians prefer to solve their problems, not to avoid them. i think that europe should now show its real solidarity with georgia and its people.
